STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Just Group plc formerly JRP Group plc the Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 13 June 2013 as a public company limited by shares.
The Companys registered office is Vale House, Roebuck Close, Bancroft Road, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 7RU.
1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union effective for accounting periods commencing on or before 1 January 2018 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
As part of their assessment of going concern at 31 December 2018 the Directors have considered the development of CP13 18 Solvency II: Equity Release Mortgages the CP.
CP13 18 was published by the PRA in July 2018 and set out a number of parameters relating to the calculation of the matching adjustment including volatility and deferment rate, with implementation expected for the December 2018 year end.
This created a significant level of uncertainty for the Group in relation to the treatment of its Lifetime Mortgage assets in the Solvency II balance sheet.
At the time of publishing the Groups interim results for 2018 on 6 September 2018, the consultation period for CP13 18 was still open.
When carrying out the assessment of going concern in relation to the interim results for 2018, the Directors concluded that although the going concern basis of preparation was appropriate, the potential outcome of the CP, together with any actions that the PRA might take, represented a material uncertainty.
In December 2018 the PRA published PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity Release Mortgages the PS setting out its conclusions, including a number of key changes from the original CP which are material to the Group, such as the deferral of the implementation date to 31 December 2019, confirmation that transitional measures for technical provisions for pre-2016 business will be recognised over the remaining transitional period to 31 December 2031, and a requirement that firms must meet an effective value test using a volatility rate of 13% and a deferment rate of 0% at the end of 2019 and that the deferment rate should increase to 1% by year end 2021.
The PS also noted a number of areas for further consideration, in particular the calculation of the SCR.
As part of the assessment of going concern for December 2018, the Directors have considered the impact of the PS.
The PS has significantly reduced the uncertainty created by the CP and provides clarity on the calculation of the matching adjustment for future periods, which has enabled the Group to model the impact of the PS in its latest capital projections, business plan and liquidity forecasts.
There is still some uncertainty as regards areas for further PRA consultation and determination, which include the process by which the volatility and deferment rates will be updated and how the effective value test applies in stress, but the Board considers, including having considered the matters below, that the material uncertainty in relation to going concern which was disclosed in the Groups interim results for 2018 does not exist at the 2018 year end.
The Directors have also considered the following in their assessment: The projected liquidity position of the Group as at 31 December 2018, current financing arrangements and contingent liabilities.
A range of forecast scenarios with differing levels of new business and associated additional capital requirements, including the Restricted Tier 1 debt and equity placings, to write anticipated levels of new business.
This included assessing the risk that the Group may not be able to raise new capital.
Eligible own funds being in excess of minimum capital requirements in a combined stress scenario with a disruptive Brexit, no capital strengthening and reduced new business volumes.
The findings of the 2018 Group Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA, and in particular sensitivity to the most significant risks faced by the Group, including the risks from the open areas of PS31 18 noted earlier and from the UKs withdrawal from the European Union.
Scenarios, including those in the ORSA, where the Group ceases to write new business.
In such a run-off scenario, this included any changes required in the valuation of insurance liabilities as a result of changes in assumptions.
However, in the run-off scenario the going concern basis would continue to be applicable because the Group would be continuing to trade with its existing business e. g. collect premiums and administer policies rather than ceasing to trade.
The Group plan, which was approved by the Board in the first quarter of 2019, and in particular the forecast regulatory solvency position calculated on a Solvency II basis, which included strengthening the Groups capital base to support its new business franchise.
Taking the above matters into account the Directors of the Company have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, including in the event of the run-off scenarios considered above.
Therefore, the financial statements of Just Group plc have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The following new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to existing accounting standards have been adopted by the Group with effect from 1 January 2018: Amendments to IFRS 4, Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
The amendments to IFRS 4 allow the deferral of the application of IFRS 9 until accounting periods commencing on 1 January 2021.
This is intended to align with the effective date of IFRS 17, the replacement insurance contracts standard.
The IASB has recommended that the deferral period for IFRS 9 and the effective date of IFRS 17 are extended to 1 January 2022.
This option, which the Group has adopted, is subject to meeting criteria relating to the predominance of insurance activity.
The predominance of insurance activity has been assessed at 31 December 2016, the end of the annual period during which the acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc took place and significantly changed the magnitude of the Groups activities.
At 31 December 2016, the Groups insurance liabilities in relation to its total liabilities were 95% and deferral of IFRS 9 was applicable.
104 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.1 Basis of preparation continued If the Group had adopted IFRS 9 it would continue to classify financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Therefore, under IFRS 9 all financial assets would continue to be recognised at fair value through profit or loss and the fair value at 31 December 2018 would be 19,252.5m.
As well as financial assets, the Group also holds Insurance and other receivables and Cash and cash equivalents assets, with contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on specified dates: the fair value of these investments is considered to be materially consistent with their carrying value, as disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS 15 specifies how and when an entity recognises revenue, providing a single, principles-based model to be applied to all contracts with customers, whilst requiring more informative and relevant disclosures.
Insurance contracts, although contracts with customers, are outside the scope of IFRS 15.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The main source of non-insurance contract income in the year was fee and commission income amounting to 8.2m.
The Groups previous accounting policy was to recognise fee and commission income when the service is rendered.
Therefore, the adoption of IFRS 15 does not result in a material difference to when revenue is recognised by the Group.
The following new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to existing accounting standards in issue, but not yet effective, have not been early adopted by the Group.
Unless stated, the new and amended standards and interpretations are being assessed but are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements: IFRS 16, Leases effective 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 specifies how to recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for leases unless the term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset has a low value.
The effect of applying this standard at 31 December 2018 would be to recognise right of use assets and lease payment liabilities on the balance sheet with an approximate value of 13.3m.
IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts effective 1 January 2021, not yet endorsed by the EU, IASB recommended extension of implementation date to 1 January 2022.
IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive approach for accounting for insurance contracts including their valuation, income statement presentation and disclosure.
The Group has initiated a project to assess the financial and operational implications of the standard and to prepare for adoption.
1.2 Significant accounting policies and the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of financial position, other primary statements and Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The major areas of judgement used as part of accounting policy application are summarised below.
Accounting policy Item involving judgement Critical accounting judgement 1.6 Classification of insurance and investment Assessment of significance of insurance risk transferred.
contracts 1.18 Financial investments Classification of financial investments, including assessment of market observability of valuation inputs.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.2 Significant accounting policies and the use of judgements, estimates and assumptions continued All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results may differ significantly from those estimates.
The table below sets out those items the Group considers susceptible to changes in critical estimates and assumptions together with the relevant accounting policy.
Accounting policy and notes Item involving estimates and assumptions Critical estimates and assumptions 1.18, 15 a and d Measurement of fair value of loans secured by The critical estimates used in valuing loans secured by residential residential mortgages, including measurement mortgages include the projected future receipts of interest and loan of the no-negative equity guarantees repayments, and the future costs of administering the loan portfolio.
The key assumptions used as part of the valuation calculation include future property prices and their volatility, mortality, the rate of voluntary redemptions and the liquidity premium added to the risk-free curve and used to discount the mortgage cash flows.
1.19, 21, 24 Measurement of reinsurance assets and The critical estimates used in measuring the value of reinsurance assets deposits received from reinsurers arising from include the projected future cash flows arising from reinsurers share of reinsurance arrangements the Groups insurance liabilities.
The key assumptions used in the valuation include discount rates and mortality experience, as described below, and assumptions around the reinsurers ability to meet its claim obligations.
Deposits received from reinsurers are measured in accordance with the reinsurance contract and taking account of an appropriate discount rate for the timing of the expected cash flows of the liabilities.
For deposits received from reinsurers measured at fair value through profit or loss, the key assumption used in the valuation is the discount rate.
For deposits received from reinsurers measured using insurance rules under IFRS 4, the key assumptions used in the valuation include discount rates and mortality experience.
1.21, 21 b Measurement of insurance liabilities arising The critical estimates used in measuring insurance liabilities include the from writing Retirement Income insurance projected future Retirement Income payments and the cost of administering payments to policyholders.
The key assumptions are the discount rates and mortality experience used in the valuation of future Retirement Income payments.
The valuation discount rates are derived from yields on supporting assets after deducting allowances for default.
Mortality assumptions are derived from the appropriate standard mortality tables, adjusted to reflect the future expected mortality experience of the policyholders.
Further detail can be found in note 21.
1.16, 13 Assessment of carrying value of intangible Intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of PAG in 2016, including assets recognised on acquisition of Partnership the value of the acquired in-force business, are reviewed for indicators of Assurance Group PAG impairment and, if such indicators exist, are tested for impairment.
The key impairment testing assumptions include the choice of discount rate used, which represents a weighted-average cost of capital determined using a capital asset pricing model approach.
106 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.3 Consolidation principles The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those investees over which the Group has control.
The Group has control over an investee if all of the following are met: 1 it has power over the investee: 2 it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and 3 it has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its own returns.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are excluded from consolidation from the date on which control ceases.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency with Group policies.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the cost of acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration at date of acquisition and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The Group uses the equity method to consolidate its investments in joint ventures and associates.
Under the equity method of accounting the investment is initially recognised at fair value and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures and associates.
1.4 Segments The Groups segmental results are presented on a basis consistent with internal reporting used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to assess the performance of operating segments and the allocation of resources.
The CODM has been identified as the Group Executive Office Committee.
The internal reporting used by the CODM includes product information which comprises analysis of product revenues, LTM advances and amounts written under investment contracts and information on adjusted operating profit and profit before tax for the Groups operating segments.
Product information is analysed by product line and includes DB, GIfL, Care Plans, Protection, LTM and Capped Drawdown products.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses.
The operating segments from which the Group derives revenues and incurs expenses are as follows: the writing of insurance products for distribution to the ator in-retirement market, which is undertaken through the activities of the Life Company this is referred to as the insurance segment in note 6, Segmental reporting : the arranging of guaranteed income for life contracts and lifetime mortgages through regulated advice and intermediary services: and the provision of licensed software to financial advisers, banks, building societies, life assurance companies and pension trustees.
Operating segments, where certain materiality thresholds in relation to total results from operating segments are not exceeded, are combined when determining reportable segments.
For segmental reporting, the arranging of guaranteed income for life contracts, providing intermediary mortgage advice and arranging, plus the provision of licensed software, are included in the Other segment along with Group activities, such as capital and liquidity management, and investment activities.
The information on adjusted operating profit and profit before tax used by the CODM is presented on a combined product basis within the insurance operating segment and is not analysed further by product.
1.5 Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the rates of exchange at the reporting date.
The revenues and expenses are translated to sterling at the average rates of exchange for the year.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation to sterling are accounted for through other comprehensive income.
1.6 Classification of insurance and investment contracts The measurement and presentation of assets, liabilities, income and expenses arising from life and pensions business contracts is dependent upon the classification of those contracts as either insurance or investment contracts.
A contract is classified as insurance only if it transfers significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is significant if an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits to those payable if no insured event occurred.
A contract that is classified as an insurance contract remains an insurance contract until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
Capped Drawdown pension business and Flexible Pension Plan contracts are classified as investment contracts as there is no transfer of longevity risk due to the fixed term and unit-linked natures of these respective contracts.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.7 Premium revenue Premium revenue in respect of individual GIfL contracts is accounted for when the premiums are received, which coincides with when the liability to pay the GIfL contract is established.
Premium revenue in respect of Defined Benefit fide-risking contracts is accounted for when the Company becomes on risk, which is the date from which the policy is effective.
If a timing difference occurs between the date from which the policy is effective and the receipt of payment, the amount due for payment but not yet received is recognised as a receivable in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Premium revenue in respect of Care Plans and Protection policies is recognised in the accounting period in which the insurance contract commences.
Facilitated adviser charges are not accounted for within premium revenue, and do not represent a charge on the Group.
Deposits collected under investment contracts are not accounted for through the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except for fee income and attributable investment income, but are accounted for directly through the Consolidated statement of financial position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
Reinsurance premiums payable in respect of reinsurance treaties are accounted for when the reinsurance premiums are due for payment under the terms of the contract.
Reinsurance premiums previously incurred can be recaptured under certain conditions, notably once reinsurance financing for an underwriting year is fully repaid.
1.8 Net investment income Investment income consists of interest receivable for the year and realised and unrealised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues.
Realised gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities occur on disposal or transfer and represent the difference between the proceeds received net of transaction costs, and the original cost.
Unrealised gains and losses arising on financial assets and liabilities represent the difference between the carrying value at the end of the year and the carrying value at the start of the year or purchase value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
1.9 Revenue from contracts with customers The Group recognises revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with IFRS 15, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for the services provided.
Revenue from contracts with customers comprises fee income on initial advances made on loans secured by residential mortgages, investment management fees, administration fees, software licensing fees and commission.
1.10 Claims paid Policyholder benefits are accounted for when due for payment.
Reinsurance paid claim recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Death claims are accounted for when notified.
1.11 Acquisition costs Acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as commission and indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs are not deferred as they relate to single premium business.
1.12 Leases Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
1.13 Finance costs Finance costs on deposits received from reinsurers are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Interest on reinsurance financing is accrued in accordance with the terms of the financing arrangements.
Interest on loans and borrowings is accrued in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement.
Loan issue costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the loan issued.
Interest expense is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
1.14 Employee benefits Defined contribution plans The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in funds managed by a third party.
Obligations for contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when due.
108 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.14 Employee benefits continued Share-based payment transactions Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at grant date, determined using stochastic and scenario-based modelling techniques where appropriate.
The fair value is expensed in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to equity, based on the Groups estimate of the equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that will eventually vest as a result of changes in non-market-based vesting conditions, and recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the remaining vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Where a leaver is entitled to their scheme benefits, this is treated as an acceleration of the vesting in the period they leave.
Where a scheme is modified before it vests, any change in fair value as a result of the modification is recognised over the remaining vesting period.
Where a scheme is cancelled, this is treated as an acceleration in the period of the vesting of all remaining options.
1.15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The calculation of the weighted-average number of ordinary shares excludes ordinary shares held in trusts on behalf of employee share schemes.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in trusts on behalf of employee share schemes, is adjusted to assume conversion of potential ordinary shares, such as share options granted to employees, if their conversion would dilute earnings per share.
1.16 Intangible assets Intangible assets consist of goodwill, which is deemed to have an indefinite useful life, Purchased Value of In-Force PVIF, brand and purchased and internally developed software including PrognoSys, which are deemed to have finite useful lives.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary and represents the future economic benefit arising from assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
Goodwill is measured at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised, but assessed for impairment annually or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over the carrying value.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and an impairment is recognised when the carrying value of the cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised directly in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and are not subsequently reversed.
Other intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group, and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairments.
PVIF, representing the present value of future profits from the purchased in-force business, is recognised upon acquisition and is amortised over its expected remaining economic life up to 16 years on a straight-line basis.
PrognoSys is the Groups proprietary underwriting engine.
The Group has over two million person-years of experience collected over 20 years of operations.
It is enhanced by an extensive breadth of external primary and secondary healthcare data and medical literature.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are capitalised and recognised as an intangible asset.
Direct costs include the incremental software development teams employee costs.
All other costs associated with researching or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which range from two to 16 years.
The useful lives are determined by considering relevant factors, such as usage of the asset, potential obsolescence, competitive position and stability of the industry.
For intangible assets with finite useful lives, impairment testing is performed where there is an indication that the carrying value of the assets may be subject to an impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The significant intangible assets recognised by the Group, their useful economic lives and the methods used to determine the cost of intangibles acquired in a business combination are as follows: Intangible asset Estimated useful economic life Valuation method PVIF Up to 16 years Estimated value in-force using European embedded value model Brand 2 5 years Estimated royalty stream if the rights were to be licensed Distribution network 3 years Estimated discounted cash flow Software 2 3 years Estimated replacement cost Intellectual property 12 15 years Estimated replacement cost STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.16 Intangible assets continued The useful economic lives of intangible assets recognised by the Group other than those acquired in a business combination are as follows: Intangible asset Estimated useful economic life PrognoSys 12 years Software 3 years 1.17 Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are measured at their revalued amounts less subsequent depreciation, and impairment losses are recognised at the date of revaluation.
Valuations are performed with sufficient frequency to ensure that the fair value of the revalued asset does not differ materially from its carrying value.
A revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income and credited to the revaluation reserve in equity.
However, to the extent that it reverses a revaluation deficit of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss, the increase is recognised in profit or loss.
A revaluation deficit is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the revaluation reserve.
Buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the buildings of 25 years.
Equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the cost to residual value over the estimated useful lives as follows: Plant and equipment Estimated useful economic life Computer equipment 3 4 years Furniture and fittings 2 10 years 1.18 Financial investments Classification The Group classifies financial investments in accordance with IAS 39 whereby, subject to specific criteria, they are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
This comprises assets designated by management as fair value through profit or loss on inception, as they are managed on a fair value basis, and derivatives that are classified as held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment income in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets.
Amounts payable or receivable on unsettled purchases or sales are recognised in other payables or other receivables respectively.
Transaction costs are expensed through profit or loss.
Loans secured by residential mortgages are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or gilts in respect of derivative contracts.
Collateral received is recognised as an asset in the Consolidated statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment in other financial liabilities and collateral pledged is recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position within the appropriate asset classification when the collateral is controlled by the Group and receives the economic benefit.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using standard valuation techniques based on discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and liabilities when the fair values are negative.
The Group does not use hedge accounting.
The Groups policy is to derecognise financial investments when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Use of fair value The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as discounted cash flow analysis.
Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These comprise financial investments which are not quoted in active markets and include loans secured by residential mortgages, derivatives and other financial investments for which markets are not active.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data that can be used in the fair value measurement of the financial investments.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
110 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.18 Financial investments continued If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third parties or internally developed pricing models.
The valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis.
The valuation techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates and, for loans secured by mortgages, mortality, future expenses, voluntary redemptions and house price assumptions.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables impact the reported fair value of these financial instruments positively or negatively.
The financial investments measured at fair value are classified into the following three-level hierarchy on the basis of the lowest level of inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement of the financial investment concerned: Level 1: Quoted price unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable either directly or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: Significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
1.19 Reinsurance Reinsurance assets Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are measured in a consistent manner with insurance liabilities and are classified as reinsurance assets.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced accordingly and that impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities Where reinsurance contracts entered into by the Group are structured to provide financing, with financing components to be repaid in future years, such amounts are classified as reinsurance finance and included in other financial liabilities in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Where reinsurance contracts entered into by the Group require deposits received from reinsurers to be repaid, such amounts are classified as deposits received from reinsurers and included in other financial liabilities in the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the liability carries no insurance risk, it is initially recognised at fair value at the date the deposited asset is recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value is determined as the amount payable discounted from the first date that the amount is required to be paid.
All other deposits received from reinsurers are valued in accordance with the terms of the reinsurance contracts under IFRS 4, which take into account an appropriate discount rate for the timing of expected cash flows.
It should be noted that the reinsurance recoverable amount is capped at the value of the deposit anticipating that underwriting years will eventually be recaptured.
Amounts receivable payable Where reinsurance contracts the Group has entered into include longevity swap arrangements, such contracts are settled on a net basis and amounts receivable from or payable to the reinsurers are included in the appropriate heading under either Insurance and other receivables or Insurance and other payables.
1.20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
1.21 Equity The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Interim dividends are recognised in equity in the year in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from equity.
Upon issue or sale, any consideration received is credited to equity net of related costs.
The reserve arising on the reorganisation of the Group represents the difference in the value of the shares in the Company and the value of shares in Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited for which they were exchanged as part of the Group reorganisation in November 2013.
1.22 Insurance liabilities Measurement Long-term insurance liabilities arise from the Group writing Retirement Income contracts, including Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions, long-term care insurance, and whole of life and term protection insurance.
Their measurement uses estimates of projected future cash flows arising from payments to policyholders plus the costs of administering them.
Valuation of insurance liabilities is derived using discount rates, adjusted for default allowance, and mortality assumptions, taken from the appropriate mortality tables and adjusted to reflect actual and expected experience.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111 1 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.22 Insurance liabilities continued Liability adequacy test The Group performs adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure the carrying amount is sufficient to cover the current estimate of future cash flows.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
1.23 Investment contract liabilities Investment contracts are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
The fair value of investment contracts is estimated using an internal model and determined on a policy-by-policy basis using a prospective valuation of future Retirement Income benefit and expense cash flows, but with an adjustment to amortise any day-one gain over the life of the contract.
1.24 Loans and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently amortised through profit or loss over the period to maturity at the effective rate of interest required to recognise the discounted estimated cash flows to maturity.
1.25 Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the expected expenditure.
1.26 Taxation The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, using tax rates substantively enacted at the Consolidated statement of financial position date, and after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to components of other comprehensive income and equity as appropriate.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities, including technical provisions and other insurance items and tax losses carried forward, and include amortised transitional tax adjustments resulting from changes in tax basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
2 NET INVESTMENT INCOME Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Interest income: Assets at fair value through profit or loss 655.2 636.4 Movement in fair value: Financial assets and liabilities designated on initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss 447.3 44.0 Derivative financial instruments note 25 65.3 28.7 Total net investment income 142.6 621.1 3 ACQUISITION COSTS Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Commission 19.2 15.8 Other acquisition expenses 33.2 27.3 Total acquisition costs 52.4 43.1 112 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Personnel costs note 9 118.7 113.8 Investment expenses and charges 16.3 11.2 Depreciation of equipment 1.4 1.8 Operating lease rentals: land and buildings 2.4 4.2 Acquisition integration costs 25.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 24.7 25.2 Other costs 91.3 56.6 Total other operating expenses 254.8 238.4 During the year the following services were provided by the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Fees payable for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated accounts 125 41 Fees payable for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 885 835 Corporate finance services 1,155 175 Audit-related assurance services 653 639 Other assurance services 222 234 Auditor remuneration 3,040 1,924 Audit-related assurance services mainly include fees relating to the audit of the Groups Solvency II regulatory returns.
Other assurance services mainly include fees relating to review procedures in relation to the Groups interim results.
Corporate finance services relate to due diligence and reporting accountant services.
Details of the process for safeguarding the objectivity independence of the Groups external auditor are given in the Audit Committee Report.
5 FINANCE COSTS Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Interest payable on deposits received from reinsurers 159.2 170.8 Interest payable on subordinated debt 39.9 32.0 Other interest payable 3.7 4.2 Total finance costs 202.8 207.0 The interest payable on deposits received from reinsurers is as defined by the respective reinsurance treaties and calculated with reference to the risk-adjusted yield on the relevant backing asset portfolio.
6 SEGMENTAL REPORTING Adjusted operating profit The Group reports adjusted operating profit as an alternative measure of profit which is used for decision making and performance measurement.
The Board believes that adjusted operating profit, which excludes effects of short-term economic and investment changes, provides a better view of the longer-term performance and development of the business and aligns with the longer-term nature of the products.
The underlying operating profit represents a combination of both the profit generated from new business written in the year and profit expected to emerge from the in-force book of business based on current assumptions.
Actual operating experience, where different from that assumed at the start of the year, and the impacts of changes to future operating assumptions applied in the year, are then also included in arriving at adjusted operating profit.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 6 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued New business profits represent expected investment returns on financial instruments backing shareholder and policyholder funds after allowances for expected movements in liabilities and acquisition costs.
Profits arising from the in-force book of business represent the expected return on surplus assets, the expected unwind of prudent reserves above best estimates for mortality, expenses, corporate bond defaults and, with respect to lifetime mortgages, no-negative equity guarantee and early redemptions.
Adjusted operating profit excludes the impairment and amortisation of goodwill and other intangible assets arising on consolidation, and restructuring costs, since these items arise outside the normal course of business in the year.
Adjusted operating profit also excludes exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those items that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns due to economic and market changes, and gains and losses on the revaluation of land and buildings, are also disclosed outside adjusted operating profit.
Segmental analysis The insurance segment writes insurance products for the retirement market which include Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions, Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions, Care Plans, Flexible Pension Plans and Protection and invests the premiums received from these contracts in debt securities, gilts, liquidity funds and lifetime mortgage advances.
The professional services business, HUB, is included with other corporate companies in the Other segment.
This business is not currently sufficiently significant to separate from other companies results.
The Other segment also includes the Groups corporate activities that are primarily involved in managing the Groups liquidity, capital and investment activities.
The Group operates in one material geographical segment, which is the United Kingdom.
Segmental reporting and reconciliation to financial information Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Insurance Other Total Insurance Other Total m m m m m m New business operating profit 243.7 243.7 169.8 169.8 In-force operating profit 69.2 2.5 71.7 71.0 0.3 71.3 Underlying operating profit 312.9 2.5 315.4 240.8 0.3 241.1 Operating experience and assumption changes 33.5 33.5 34.6 34.6 Other Group companies operating results 14.6 14.6 14.0 14.0 Development expenditure 6.4 2.3 8.7 1.1 1.1 Reinsurance and financing costs 45.8 2.5 48.3 43.4 3.4 40.0 Adjusted operating profit before tax 227.2 16.9 210.3 232.0 11.4 220.6 Non-recurring and project expenditure 4.3 15.3 19.6 10.9 0.7 11.6 Investment and economic losses profits 251.0 1.0 252.0 22.6 22.6 Loss profit before acquisition transaction and amortisation costs, before tax 28.1 33.2 61.3 243.7 12.1 231.6 Acquisition integration costs 25.6 Amortisation costs 24.2 24.7 Loss profit before tax 85.5 181.3 Segmental revenue All net premium revenue arises from the Groups insurance segment.
Net investment income of 141.3m arose from the insurance segment and 1.3m arose from other segments 2017: 621.0m and 0.1m respectively.
Fee and commission income of 5.0m arose from the insurance segment and 3.2m arose from other segments 2017: 1.6m and 4.2m respectively.
114 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Product information analysis Additional analysis relating to the Groups products is presented below.
The Groups products are from one material geographical segment, which is the United Kingdom.
The Groups gross premiums written, as shown in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, is analysed by product below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions DB 1,314.2 997.8 Guaranteed Income for Life contracts GIfL 786.5 820.5 Care Plans CP 72.8 71.6 Protection 3.4 3.5 Gross premiums written 2,176.9 1,893.4 Drawdown and LTM products are accounted for as investment contracts and financial investments respectively in the statement of financial position.
An analysis of the amounts advanced during the year for these products is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Drawdown 51.0 51.2 LTM loans advanced 602.1 510.0 Reconciliation of gross premiums written to new business sales Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Gross premiums written 2,176.9 1,893.4 Regular premiums recognised on a single premium equivalent basis in new business sales 2.6 2.5 Drawdown and LTM new business sales not included in gross premiums written 653.1 561.2 New business sales 2,827.4 2,457.1 Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Insurance Other Total Insurance Other Total m m m m m m Product service LTM set-up fees 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 LTM commission and advice fees 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 GIfL commission 1.8 1.8 1.2 1.2 FPP fees 0.6 0.1 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.4 Other 0.4 3.1 3.5 1.0 0.9 1.9 Timing of revenue recognition 1.5 6.7 8.2 1.9 3.9 5.8 Products transferred at point in time 0.9 6.4 7.3 1.6 3.9 5.5 Products and services transferred over time 0.6 0.3 0.9 0.3 0.3 Revenue from contracts with customers 1.5 6.7 8.2 1.9 3.9 5.8 All revenue from contracts with customers is from the UK.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 7 INCOME TAX Income tax recognised in profit or loss Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Current taxation Current year 9.8 44.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2.1 8.1 Total current tax 7.7 36.1 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.9 7.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.9 2.5 Rate change 0.3 0.1 Total deferred tax 13.5 9.9 Total income tax recognised in profit or loss 21.2 26.2 The net income tax credit of 21.2m includes a tax credit of 9.8m for carry back of current year tax losses of 51.6m against 2017 taxable profits for overpayment relief of 15.9m and tax provision for the HMRC transfer pricing enquiry of 3.3m.
The tax rate for the current year is lower than the prior year, due to changes in the UK corporation tax rate, which decreased from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2016 on 6 September 2016.
These include reductions to the main rate to reduce the rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
Deferred taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using these enacted tax rates and reflected in these financial statements.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2018 have been calculated based on the rate at which they are expected to reverse.
Reconciliation of total income tax to the applicable tax rate Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m 85.5 181.3 Loss profit on ordinary activities before tax Income tax at 19% 2017: 19.25% 16.2 34.9 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 0.4 Rate change 0.1 0.4 Higher rate for overseas income 0.3 Unrecognised deferred tax asset 1.3 0.5 Losses utilised carried back 0.1 0.6 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.2 10.6 Deferred tax not previously recognised 9.1 Other 0.9 Total income tax recognised in profit or loss 21.2 26.2 The rate change of 0.1m is largely due to deferred tax recognised at 17% rather than current rate of 19%.
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Deferred taxation Revaluation of land and buildings 0.9 Total deferred tax 0.9 Total income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 0.9 116 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 INCOME TAX continued Taxation of life insurance companies was fundamentally changed following the publication of the Finance Act 2012.
Since 1 January 2013, life insurance tax has been based on financial statements: prior to this date, the basis for profits chargeable to corporation tax was surplus arising within the Pillar 1 regulatory regime.
Cumulative differences arising between the two bases, which represent the differences in retained profits and taxable surplus which are not excluded items for taxation, are brought back into the computation of taxable profits.
However, legislation provides for transitional arrangements whereby such differences are amortised on a straight-line basis over a ten year period from 1 January 2013.
Similarly, the resulting cumulative transitional adjustments for tax purposes in adoption of IFRS will be amortised on a straight-line basis over a ten year period from 1 January 2016.
The tax charge for the year to 31 December 2018 includes profits chargeable to corporation tax arising from amortisation of transitional balances of 2.5m 2017: 2.5m.
Tax balances included within these financial statements include the use of estimates and assumptions which are based on managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future events and actions.
This includes the determination of tax liabilities and recoverables for uncertain tax positions.
The actual outcome may differ from the estimated position.
8 REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS Information concerning individual Directors emoluments, interests and transactions is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 5 to the Companies Act 2006, the total aggregate emoluments of the Directors in the year was 4.4m 2017: 5.7m.
Employer contributions to pensions for Executive Directors for qualifying periods were nil 2017: nil.
The aggregate net value of share awards granted to the Directors in the year was 2.7m 2017: 2.3m.
The net value has been calculated by reference to the closing middle-market price of an ordinary share at the date of grant.
Two Directors exercised share options during the year with an aggregate gain of 5k 2017: two Directors exercised options with an aggregate gain of 1,735k.
9 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the financial year, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number Number Directors 9 12 Senior management 120 116 Staff 1,007 963 Average number of staff 1,136 1,091 The aggregate personnel costs were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 96.6 90.3 Social security costs 9.0 8.9 Other pension costs 4.3 4.3 Share-based payment expense 8.8 10.3 Total personnel costs 118.7 113.8 The Company does not have any employees.
10 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Defined contribution pension scheme The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The pension cost charge for the year represents contributions payable to the fund and amounted to 4.3m 2017: 4.3m.
Employee share plans The Group operates a number of employee share option and share award plans.
Details of those plans are as follows: Share options Just Retirement Group plc 2013 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Group has made awards under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options which become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to the satisfaction of service and performance conditions set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Options are exercisable until the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Options granted since 2017 are subject to a two year holding period after the options have been exercised.
The options are accounted for as equity-settled schemes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The number and weighted-average remaining contractual life of outstanding options under the LTIP are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 15,736,774 17,157,164 Granted 4,498,115 4,718,136 Forfeited 23,303 1,450,989 Exercised 357,912 2,439,772 Expired 2,258,366 2,247,765 Outstanding at end of year 17,595,308 15,736,774 Exercisable at end of year 3,203,315 1,117,994 Weighted-average share price at exercise 1.11 1.57 Weighted-average remaining contractual life years 1.13 1.45 The exercise price for options granted under the LTIP is nil.
During the year to 31 December 2018, awards of LTIPs were made on 29 March 2018.
The weighted-average fair value and assumptions used to determine the fair value of options granted during the year under the LTIP are as follows: Fair value at grant date 1.03 Option pricing models used Black-Scholes, Stochastic, Finnerty Share price at grant date 1.36 Exercise price Nil Expected volatility TSR performance 37.41% Expected volatility holding period 39.52% Option life 3 years 2 year holding period Dividends Nil Risk-free interest rate TSR performance 0.87% Risk-free interest rate holding period 1.11% A Black-Scholes option pricing model is used where vesting is related to an earnings per share target, a Stochastic model is used where vesting is related to a total shareholder return target, and a Finnerty model is used to model the holding period.
Deferred share bonus plan DSBP The DSBP is operated in conjunction with the Groups short-term incentive plan for Executive Directors and other senior managers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, as explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options which become exercisable on the third anniversary, and until the tenth anniversary, of the grant date.
The number and weighted-average remaining contractual life of outstanding options under the DSBP are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 2,959,716 2,257,544 Granted 925,734 1,493,790 Exercised 20,892 791,618 Outstanding at end of year 3,864,558 2,959,716 Exercisable at end of year 1,641,831 796,252 Weighted-average share price at exercise 0.74 1.58 Weighted-average remaining contractual life years 1.02 1.57 118 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued The exercise price for options granted under the DSBP is nil.
During the year to 31 December 2018, awards of DSBPs were made on 29 March 2018.
The weighted-average fair value and assumptions used to determine the fair value of options granted during the year under the DSBP are as follows: Fair value at grant date 1.36 Option pricing model used Black-Scholes Share price at grant date 1.36 Exercise price Nil Expected volatility Nil Option life 3 years Dividends Nil Risk-free interest rate Nil Save As You Earn SAYE scheme The Group operates SAYE plans for all employees, allowing a monthly amount to be saved from salaries over either a three or five year period which canbe used to purchase shares in the Company at a predetermined price.
The employee must remain in employment for the duration of the saving period and satisfy the monthly savings requirement except in good leaver circumstances.
Options are exercisable for up to six months after the saving period.
The number, weighted-average exercise price, weighted-average share price at exercise, and weighted-average remaining contractual life of outstanding options under the SAYE are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017  average exercise exercise Number price Number price of options of options Outstanding at start of year 4,401,381 1.12 4,804,147 1.21 Granted 1,544,255 1.18 3,302,135 1.07 Forfeited 348,098 1.13 423,430 1.21 Cancelled 632,207 1.13 621,001 1.20 Exercised 285,347 1.24 2,539,617 1.19 Expired 123,601 1.25 120,853 1.20 Outstanding at end of year 4,556,383 1.12 4,401,381 1.12 Exercisable at end of year 69,981 1.36 234,759 1.14 Weighted-average share price at exercise 1.42 Weighted-average remaining contractual life years 2.39 The range of exercise prices of options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Number of options options outstanding outstanding 1.07 2,581,382 3,157,377 1.13 81,640 194,057 1.18 1,335,184 1.20 445,922 521,114 1.27 61,973 426,917 1.47 50,282 101,916 Total 4,556,383 4,401,381 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued During the year to 31 December 2018, awards of SAYEs were made on 20 June 2018.
The weighted-average fair value and assumptions used to determine the fair value of options granted during the year under the SAYE are as follows: Fair value at grant date 0.40 Option pricing model used Black-Scholes Share price at grant date 1.38 Exercise price 1.18 Expected volatility - 3 year scheme 36.93% Expected volatility - 5 year scheme 54.53% Option life 3-5 years Dividends Nil Risk-free interest rate - 3 year scheme 0.79% Risk-free interest rate - 5 year scheme 1.05% Saving forfeit discounts 5% Share awards Share incentive plan SIP The SIP is an all-employee share ownership plan.
The Group made an award of 831,070 free shares immediately after admission to all eligible employees.
The shares are held in trust on behalf of the employees.
The shares are forfeited if the employees cease employment except in good leaver circumstances within the first three years from the date of the award.
The awards vested on 11 November 2016.
Awards made in the year are in respect of additional shares to existing scheme participants on payment of dividends by the Group.
The weightedaverage fair value of awards made in the year was 10,185 measured by reference to the quoted share price of the Company at grant date.
Share-based payment expense The share-based payment expense recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for employee services receivable during the year is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Equity-settled schemes 8.8 10.3 Total expense 8.8 10.3 11 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, and by the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares potentially outstanding at the end of the year, calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings per number of Earnings per Earnings shares share Earnings shares share m million pence m million pence Basic 63.7 932.7 6.83 155.1 930.0 16.68 Effect of potentially dilutive share options 7.5 0.14 Diluted 63.7 932.7 6.83 155.1 937.5 16.54 120 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 DIVIDENDS Dividends paid in the year were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Final dividend: in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 2.55 pence per share, paid on 25 May 2018 23.8 in respect of the 18 months ended 31 December 2016 2.4 pence per share, paid on 26 May 2017 22.3 Interim dividend: in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 1.17 pence per share, paid on 24 November 2017 10.9 Dividends paid on the vesting of employee share schemes 0.6 Total dividends paid 24.4 33.2 The Board considers it appropriate not to pay a final year dividend for 2018 total 2017 dividend: 3.72 pence per ordinary share, amounting to 34.7m in total.
The Boards current expectation is to recommence dividend payments during the 2019 financial year at a rebased level.
The rebased level for the 2019 full year dividend is expected to be approximately one third of the 3.72 pence total dividend paid during the 2017 financial year, subject to the Groups earnings, cash flow and capital position.
13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS PrognoSys Present value and other of in-force Distribution intellectual Goodwill business network Brand property Software Leases Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 33.9 200.0 26.6 5.6 7.4 25.4 2.0 300.9 Additions 1.0 0.5 0.7 2.2 At 31 December 2018 34.9 200.0 26.6 5.6 7.9 26.1 2.0 303.1 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2018 0.8 54.0 22.4 5.6 1.4 21.2 2.0 107.4 Charge for the year 17.9 3.3 0.6 2.9 24.7 At 31 December 2018 0.8 71.9 25.7 5.6 2.0 24.1 2.0 132.1 Net book value at 31 December 2018 34.1 128.1 0.9 5.9 2.0 171.0 Net book value at 31 December 2017 33.1 146.0 4.2 6.0 4.2 193.5 PrognoSys Present value and other of in-force Distribution intellectual Goodwill business network Brand property Software Leases Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 33.9 200.0 26.6 5.6 7.4 23.7 2.0 299.2 Additions 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2017 33.9 200.0 26.6 5.6 7.4 25.4 2.0 300.9 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 0.8 36.1 19.1 5.6 1.2 17.4 2.0 82.2 Charge for the year 17.9 3.3 0.2 3.8 25.2 At 31 December 2017 0.8 54.0 22.4 5.6 1.4 21.2 2.0 107.4 Net book value at 31 December 2017 33.1 146.0 4.2 6.0 4.2 193.5 Net book value at 31 December 2016 33.1 163.9 7.5 6.2 6.3 217.0 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121 13 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Amortisation and impairment charge The amortisation and impairment charge is recognised in other operating expenses in profit or loss.
Impairment testing Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, at least annually.
The Groups goodwill of 34.1m at 31 December 2018 represents 1.0m recognised on the 2018 acquisition of Corinthian Group Limited see note 35, 0.3m recognised on the 2016 acquisition of the Partnership Assurance Group and 32.8m on the 2009 acquisition by Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited of Just Retirement Holdings Limited, the holding company of Just Retirement Limited JRL.
The existing goodwill has been allocated to the insurance segment as the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amounts of goodwill have been determined from value-in-use.
The key assumptions of this calculation are noted below: 2018 2017 Period on which management approved forecasts are based 5 years 5 years Discount rate pre-tax 10.0% 10.0% The value-in-use of the insurance operating segment is considered by reference to latest business plans over the next five years, which reflect managements best estimate of future profits based on historical experience, expected growth rates and assumptions around market share, customer numbers, expense inflation and mortality rates.
A stressed scenario that assumes no growth in sales for the next five years and discount rate of 20% is also considered.
The outcome of the impairment assessment under both scenarios is that the goodwill in respect of the insurance operating segment is not impaired and that the value-in-use is higher than the carrying value of goodwill and net assets.
Any reasonably possible changes in assumption will not cause the carrying value of the goodwill to exceed the recoverable amounts.
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land and Computer Furniture and buildings equipment fittings Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2018 16.6 6.0 5.7 28.3 Acquired during the year 0.8 0.8 Revaluations 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2018 17.9 6.8 5.7 30.4 Depreciation At 1 January 2018 0.7 5.1 2.9 8.7 Eliminated on revaluation 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 0.5 0.5 0.4 1.4 At 31 December 2018 0.1 5.6 3.3 9.0 Net book value at 31 December 2018 17.8 1.2 2.4 21.4 Net book value at 31 December 2017 15.9 0.9 2.8 19.6 122 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Freehold land Computer Furniture and and buildings equipment fittings Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 9.7 5.5 10.5 25.7 Acquired during the year 6.9 0.5 7.4 Disposed during the year 4.8 4.8 At 31 December 2017 16.6 6.0 5.7 28.3 Depreciation At 1 January 2017 0.3 4.6 3.7 8.6 Charge for the year 0.4 0.5 0.9 1.8 Disposed during the year 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2017 0.7 5.1 2.9 8.7 Net book value at 31 December 2017 15.9 0.9 2.8 19.6 Net book value at 31 December 2016 9.4 0.9 6.8 17.1 Included in freehold land and buildings is land of value 4.4m 2017: 4.3m.
The Companys freehold land and buildings are stated at their revalued amounts, being the fair value at the date of revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
The fair value measurements of the Companys freehold land and buildings as at 15 November 2018 were performed by Hurst Warne & Partners Surveyors Ltd, independent valuers not related to the Company.
Hurst Warne & Partners Surveyors Ltd is registered for regulation by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
The valuation was undertaken by a RICS registered valuer.
The valuer has sufficient current local knowledge of the particular market, and the knowledge, skills and understanding to undertake the valuation competently.
The fair value of the freehold land was undertaken using a residual valuation assuming a new build office on each site to an exact equivalent size as currently and disregarding the possibility of developing any alternative uses or possible enhancements.
The fair value of the buildings was determined based on open market comparable evidence of market rent.
Revaluations during the year comprise a loss of 2.9m recognised in profit or loss, a gain of 5.3m recognised in other comprehensive income gross of tax of 0.9m, and the elimination of depreciation on the revaluations of 1.1m.
15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS This note explains the methodology for valuing the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including financial investments, and provides disclosures in accordance with IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, including an analysis of such assets and liabilities categorised in a fair value hierarchy based on market observability of valuation inputs.
All of the Groups financial investments are measured at fair value through the profit or loss, and are either designated as such on initial recognition or, in the case of derivative financial assets, classified as held for trading.
Fair value Cost 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Units in liquidity funds 882.5 897.9 882.5 897.9 Investment funds 182.0 46.3 182.8 45.6 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 9,518.3 9,589.5 8,858.5 8,745.8 Deposits with credit institutions 153.4 87.9 153.4 87.9 Derivative financial assets 81.2 100.2 2.6 Loans secured by residential mortgages 7,191.5 6,833.3 4,847.6 4,127.0 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 392.3 215.4 385.9 211.7 Other loans 749.1 444.3 711.8 408.0 Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on investment contracts 102.2 72.3 101.2 67.6 Total 19,252.5 18,287.1 16,123.7 14,594.1 The majority of investments included in debt securities and other fixed income securities are listed investments.
Units in liquidity funds comprise wholly of units in funds which invest in cash and cash equivalents.
Deposits with credit institutions with a carrying value of 152.6m 2017: 87.1m have been pledged as collateral in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments.
Amounts pledged as collateral are deposited with the derivative counterparty.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued a Determination of fair value and fair value hierarchy All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole.
Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 Inputs to Level 2 fair values are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
If the asset or liability has a specified contractual term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the instrument.
Level 2 inputs include the following: quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets: quoted prices for identical assets or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary substantially either over time or among market makers, or in which very little information is released publicly: inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability: and market-corroborated inputs.
Where the Group uses broker asset manager quotes and no information as to observability of inputs is provided by the broker asset manager, the investments are classified as follows: where the broker asset manager price is validated by using internal models with market-observable inputs and the values are similar, the investment is classified as Level 2: and in circumstances where internal models are not used to validate broker asset manager prices, or the observability of inputs used by brokers asset managers is unavailable, the investment is classified as Level 3.
The majority of the Groups debt securities held at fair value and financial derivatives are valued using independent pricing services or third party broker quotes, and therefore classified as Level 2.
Level 3 Inputs to Level 3 fair values are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.
However, the fair value measurement objective remains the same, i. e. an exit price at the measurement date from the perspective of a market participant that holds the asset or owes the liability.
Unobservable inputs reflect the same assumptions as those that the market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
The Groups assets and liabilities held at fair value which are valued using valuation techniques for which significant observable market data is not available and classified as Level 3 include loans secured by mortgages, asset-backed securities, investment contract liabilities, and deposits received from reinsurers.
The valuation of loans secured by mortgages is determined using internal models which project future cash flows expected to arise from each loan.
Future cash flows allow for assumptions relating to future expenses, future mortality experience, voluntary redemptions and repayment shortfalls on redemption of the mortgages due to the no-negative equity guarantee.
The fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at a swap rate plus a liquidity premium.
Under the no-negative equity guarantee, the amount recoverable by the Group on termination of mortgages is generally capped at the net sale proceeds of the property.
This guarantee does not apply where the mortgage redemption is not accompanied by a sale of the underlying property.
This could occur when, for example, the property is remortgaged with another provider.
The time value of this option and guarantee is allowed for in the asset valuation using closed form calculations, based on a variant of the Black-Scholes option pricing formula.
The formula incorporates a number of assumptions, including those for risk-free interest rates, future property growth and future property price volatility.
The Level 3 bonds are either private placement bonds or asset-backed securities.
Such securities are valued using discounted cash flow analyses using assumptions based on the repayment of the underlying bond.
The Level 3 other loans are  loans, and are valued using discounted cash flow analysis using assumptions based on the repayment of the underlying loan.
Investment contract liabilities are calculated on a policy-by-policy basis using a prospective valuation of future retirement income benefits and expense cash flows, but with an adjustment to amortise any day-one gain over the life of the contract.
Deposits received from reinsurers are measured in accordance with the reinsurance contract and taking into account an appropriate discount rate for the timing of expected cash flows of the liabilities.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
124 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued b Analysis of assets and liabilities held at fair value according to fair value hierarchy 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets held at fair value Units in liquidity funds 877.7 4.8 882.5 894.3 3.6 897.9 Investment funds 112.2 69.8 182.0 46.3 46.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 918.0 7,984.3 616.0 9,518.3 553.5 8,295.5 740.5 9,589.5 Deposits with credit institutions 152.6 0.8 153.4 87.0 0.9 87.9 Derivative financial assets 1.8 79.4 81.2 100.2 100.2 Loans secured by residential mortgages 7,191.5 7,191.5 6,833.3 6,833.3 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 392.3 392.3 215.4 215.4 Other loans 25.9 723.2 749.1 11.0 433.3 444.3 Recoveries from reinsurers on investment contracts 102.2 102.2 72.3 72.3 Total assets held at fair value 1,950.1 8,207.4 9,095.0 19,252.5 1,534.8 8,457.5 8,294.8 18,287.1 Liabilities held at fair value Investment contract liabilities 197.8 197.8 220.7 220.7 Derivative financial liabilities 178.3 178.3 236.3 236.3 Obligations for repayment of cash collateral received 3.2 0.2 3.4 16.3 16.3 Deposits received from reinsurers 2,443.5 2,443.5 2,654.1 2,654.1 Total liabilities held at fair value 3.2 178.5 2,641.3 2,823.0 16.3 236.3 2,874.8 3,127.4 c Transfers between levels The Groups policy is to assess pricing source changes and determine transfers between levels as of the end of each half-yearly reporting period.
During the year transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 were 485.7m 2017: nil.
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and between Level 2 and Level 3, as shown in the tables below, have arisen from changes in the availability of market prices for specific bonds.
d Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value Reconciliation of the opening and closing recorded amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value.
Debt Recoveries securities Loans Loans from Deposits and other secured by secured by reinsurers on Investment received Investment fixed income residential commercial Other investment contract from funds securities mortgages mortgages loans contracts liabilities reinsurers Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 740.5 6,833.3 215.4 433.3 72.3 220.7 2,654.1 Purchases advances deposits 79.0 78.1 602.1 177.8 295.5 54.6 51.0 20.2 Transfers to Level 2 158.3 Sales redemptions payments 9.7 26.6 297.2 18.0 4.7 24.5 73.5 227.7 Realised gains and losses recognised in profit or loss within net investment income 2.4 78.7 Unrealised gains and losses recognised in profit or loss within net investment income1 9.7 291.4 27.1 0.9 0.2 92.0 Interest accrued 0.5 5.6 266.0 10.0 88.9 Change in fair value of liabilities recognised in profit 0.4 or loss At 31 December 2018 69.8 616.0 7,191.5 392.3 723.2 102.2 197.8 2,443.5 1 Includes the impact of changes in assumptions in respect of the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages of 112m, which includes 61m in relation to property growth assumptions and 51m in relation to property volatility assumptions.
For Level 1 and Level 2 assets measured at fair value, the change in fair value during the year was 66.3m and 181.0m respectively.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Recoveries Debt from securities and Loans Loans reinsurers on Investment Deposits other fixed secured by secured by investment contract received from income residential commercial Other contracts liabilities reinsurers securities mortgages mortgages loans m m m Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m At 1 January 2017 179.0 6,430.4 163.8 188.7 28.5 222.3 2,741.1 Purchases advances deposits 27.0 510.0 60.5 240.2 49.4 51.2 31.1 Transfers from Level 2 534.3 Sales redemptions payments 11.5 360.3 7.8 8.9 59.1 191.7 Realised gains and losses recognised in profit or loss within net investment income 0.1 167.5 0.1 0.4 Unrealised gains and losses recognised in profit or loss within net investment income 11.6 164.6 1.5 4.0 3.3 19.7 Interest accrued 250.3 0.5 93.3 Change in fair value of liabilities recognised in profit or loss 6.3 At 31 December 2017 740.5 6,833.3 215.4 433.3 72.3 220.7 2,654.1 Investment funds Investment funds classified as Level 3 are structured entities that operate under contractual arrangements which allow a group of investors to invest in a pool of corporate loans without any one investor having overall control of the entity.
Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of investment funds classified as Level 3 Discount rate Discount rates are the most significant assumption applied in calculating the fair value of investment funds.
The discount rates used range from 6.9% to 12.1% depending on the individual loan within the investment fund.
Sensitivity analysis Reasonably possible alternative assumptions for unobservable inputs used in the valuation model could give rise to significant changes in the fair value of the assets.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: Investment funds Discount rate Net increase decrease in fair value m 1% 2018 3.1 2017 n a Debt securities and other fixed income securities Debt securities classified as Level 3 are either private placement bonds or asset-backed securities.
Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of the debt securities and other fixed income securities classified as Level 3 Redemption and defaults The redemption and default assumptions used in the valuation of infrastructure private placement bonds are similar to the rest of the Groups bond portfolio.
For asset-backed securities, the assumptions are that the underlying loans supporting the securities are redeemed in the future in a similar profile to the existing redemptions on an average rate of 3% per annum, and that default levels on the underlying basis remain at the current level of the Groups bond portfolio.
The sensitivity of the valuation of bonds to the default assumption is determined by reference to movement in credit spreads.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: 126 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Debt securities and other fixed income securities Credit spreads Net increase decrease in fair value m 100bps 2018 28.9 2017 44.8 Loans secured by residential mortgages Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of loans secured by residential mortgages All gains and losses arising from loans secured by mortgages are largely dependent on the term of the mortgage, which in turn is determined by the longevity of the customer.
Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of loans secured by mortgages include the following: Maintenance expenses Assumptions for future policy expense levels are based on the Groups recent expense analyses.
The assumed future expense levels incorporate an annual inflation rate allowance of 4.1% 2017: 4.2%.
Mortality Mortality assumptions have been derived with reference to England & Wales population mortality using the CMI 2017 data set and model mortality tables for both base table rates and mortality improvements 2017: CMI 2016 mortality tables for both base table rates and mortality improvements.
These base mortality and improvement tables have been adjusted to reflect the expected future mortality experience of mortgage contract holders, taking into account the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the sales process and the Groups assessment of how this experience will develop in the future.
This assessment takes into consideration relevant industry and population studies, published research materials and managements own experience.
Property prices The value of a property at the date of valuation is calculated by taking the latest valuation for that property and indexing this value using the Office for National Statistics monthly index for the propertys location.
The appropriateness of this valuation basis is regularly tested on the event of redemption of mortgages.
Future property prices In the absence of a reliable long-term forward curve for UK residential property price inflation, the Group has made an assumption about future residential property price inflation based upon available market and industry data.
These assumptions have been derived with reference to the long-term expectation of the UK retail price inflation, RPI, plus an allowance for the expectation of house price growth above RPI property risk premium less a margin for a combination of risks including property dilapidation and basis risk.
An additional allowance is made for the volatility of future property prices.
This results in a single rate of future house price growth of 3.8% 2017: 4.25%, with a volatility assumption of 13% per annum 2017: 12%.
The change in these assumptions since 2017 included consideration of future long and short-term forecasts, the Groups historical experience, benchmarking data, and future uncertainties including the possible impact of Brexit on the UK property market.
Voluntary redemptions Assumptions for future voluntary redemption levels are based on the Groups recent analyses and external benchmarking.
The assumed redemption rate varies by duration and product line between 0.7% and 3.8% for loans written by JRL 2017: 0.7% and 3.0% and between 0.9% and 3.2% for loans written by PLACL 2017: 0.9% and 2.8%.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: Loans secured by residential mortgages valuation assumptions Immediate Future Future Maintenance Base property property property price Voluntary expenses mortality price fall price growth volatility redemptions Net increase decrease in fair value m 10% -5% -10% -0.5% 1% 10% 2018 7.1 22.4 97.1 79.4 53.2 15.1 2017 7.2 30.3 72.4 62.3 43.8 24.1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 127 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Loans secured by commercial mortgages The sensitivity factors are determined via financial models.
The analysis has been prepared for a change in each variable with other assumptions remaining constant.
In reality such an occurrence is unlikely due to correlation between the assumptions and other factors.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities are non-linear and larger or smaller impacts cannot be interpolated or extrapolated from these results.
The sensitivity factors take into consideration that the Groups assets and liabilities are actively managed and may vary at the time that any actual market movement occurs.
Other limitations in the above sensitivity analysis include the use of hypothetical market movements to demonstrate potential risk that only represents the Groups view of reasonably possible near-term market changes that cannot be predicted with any certainty.
Principal assumption underlying the calculation of loans secured by commercial mortgages The discount rate is the most significant assumption applied in calculating the fair value of the loans secured by commercial mortgages.
The discount rate used is 1.4% for JRL 2017: n a and 1.5% for PLACL 2017: 0.9% plus a spread % of between 2.0% and 2.8% for JRL 2017: n a and between 1.7% and 3.2% for PLACL 2017: 1.3% and 2.8% depending on the individual loan.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: Loans secured by commercial mortgages valuation assumptions Interest rates Net increase decrease in fair value m 100bps 2018 19.8 2017 11.1 Other loans Other loans classified as Level 3 are infrastructure loans.
Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of other loans classified as Level 3 Redemption and defaults The redemption and default assumptions used in the valuation of infrastructure loans are similar to the Groups bond portfolio.
They have additional covenants which provide greater security but these are not quantified in the valuation.
The sensitivity of the valuation of infrastructure loans to the default assumption is determined by reference to the movement in credit spreads.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: Other loans Credit spreads Net increase decrease in fair value m 100bps 2018 73.4 2017 37.1 Recoveries from reinsurers on investment contracts Recoveries from reinsurers on investment contracts represent fully reinsured funds invested under the Flexible Pension Plan.
The linked liabilities are included in Level 3 investment contract liabilities.
Principal assumptions and sensitivity of fair value Recoveries from reinsurers on investment contracts are valued based on the price of the reinsured underlying funds determined by the asset managers.
The assets are classified as Level 3 because the prices are not validated by internal models or the observable inputs used by the asset managers are not available.
Therefore, there are no principal assumptions used in the valuation of these Level 3 assets.
128 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Investment contract liabilities Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of investment contract liabilities Maintenance expenses Assumptions for future policy expense levels are based on the Groups recent expense analyses.
The assumed future expense levels incorporate an annual inflation rate allowance of 4.6% 2017: 4.4%.
Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of fair value to changes in maintenance expense assumptions in respect of investment contract liabilities is not material.
Deposits received from reinsurers measured at fair value through profit or loss Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of deposits received from reinsurers Discount rate The valuation model discounts the expected future cash flows using a contractual discount rate derived from the assets hypothecated to back the liabilities at a product level.
The discount rates used for individual retirement and individual care annuities were 3.47% and 1.32% respectively 2017: 3.11% and 0.95% respectively.
Credit spreads The valuation of deposits received from reinsurers includes a credit spread applied by the individual reinsurer.
A credit spread of 142bps 2017: 102bps was applied in respect of the most significant reinsurance contract.
Sensitivity analysis Reasonably possible alternative assumptions for unobservable inputs used in the valuation model could give rise to significant changes in the fair value of the liabilities see note 24 b.
The Group has estimated the impact on fair value to changes to these inputs as follows: Deposits received from reinsurers Credit spreads Interest rates Net increase decrease in fair value m 100bps 100bps 2018 75.8 196.4 2017 88.5 217.1 16 DEFERRED TAX 2018 2017 Asset Liability Total Asset Liability Total m m m m m m Transitional tax 8.5 8.5 11.1 11.1 Intangible assets 22.1 22.1 27.3 27.3 Land and buildings 0.9 0.9 Other provisions 18.6 0.7 17.9 13.0 0.8 12.2 Total deferred tax 18.6 32.2 13.6 13.0 39.2 26.2 The transitional tax liability of 8.5m 2017: 11.1m represents the adjustment arising from the change in the tax rules for life insurance companies which is amortised over ten years from 1 January 2013 and the transitional adjustments for tax purposes in adopting IFRS which is amortised over ten years from 1 January 2016.
Other provisions principally relate to temporary differences between the IFRS financial statements and tax deductions for statutory insurance liabilities.
The movement in the net deferred tax balance was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Net balance at start of year 26.2 36.1 Recognised in profit or loss 13.5 9.9 Recognised in other comprehensive income 0.9 Net balance at end of year 13.6 26.2 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 4.2m 2017: 5.4m.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 129 17 PREPAYMENTS AND ACCRUED INCOME Included in prepayments and accrued income are capitalised bank borrowing costs of 1.4m 2017: 1.8m.
Prepayments and accrued income for the Group includes 0.8m 2017: 0.2m that is expected to be recovered more than one year after the Consolidated statement of financial position date.
18 INSURANCE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts 14.1 40.3 Other receivables 4.8 4.2 Total insurance and other receivables 18.9 44.5 Of the above insurance and other receivables, nil 2017: nil is expected to be recovered more than one year after the Consolidated statement of financial position date.
19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 m m Cash available on demand 113.9 261.4 Units in liquidity funds 882.5 897.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated statement of cash flows 996.4 1,159.3 20 SHARE CAPITAL The allotted and issued ordinary share capital of Just Group plc at 31 December 2018 is detailed below: Share Share Merger Number of 0.10 capital premium reserve Total ordinary shares m m m m At 1 January 2018 938,308,340 93.8 94.2 532.7 720.7 In respect of employee share schemes 2,760,542 0.3 0.3 0.6 At 31 December 2018 941,068,882 94.1 94.5 532.7 721.3 At 1 January 2017 932,884,033 93.3 91.7 532.7 717.7 In respect of employee share schemes 5,424,307 0.5 2.5 3.0 At 31 December 2017 938,308,340 93.8 94.2 532.7 720.7 Consideration for the acquisition of 100% of the equity shares of Partnership Assurance Group plc consisted of a new issue of shares in the Company.
Accordingly, merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, and share premium has not been recognised in respect of this issue of shares.
A merger reserve has been recognised representing the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the net assets of Partnership Assurance Group plc acquired.
130 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND RELATED REINSURANCE Insurance liabilities 2018 2017 m m Gross insurance liabilities 17,273.8 16,633.0 Reinsurance 4,239.2 5,285.3 Net insurance liabilities 13,034.6 11,347.7 a Terms and conditions of insurance contracts The Groups long-term insurance contracts include annuities to fund Retirement Income, Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL and Defined Benefit DB, annuities to fund care fees immediate needs and deferred, long-term care insurance and whole of life and term protection insurance.
The insurance liabilities are agreed by the Board using recognised actuarial valuation methods proposed by the Groups Actuarial Reporting Function.
In particular, a prospective gross premium valuation method has been adopted for major classes of business.
Although the process for the establishment of insurance liabilities follows specified rules and guidelines, the provisions that result from the process remain uncertain.
As a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual value of claims could vary from the amounts provided to cover future claims.
The Group seeks to provide for appropriate levels of contract liabilities taking known facts and experiences into account but nevertheless such provisions remain uncertain.
The estimation process used in determining insurance liabilities involves projecting future annuity payments and the cost of maintaining the contracts.
For non-annuity contracts, the liability is determined as the sum of the discounted value of future benefit payments and future administration expenses less the expected value of premiums payable under the contract.
The key sensitivities are the assumed level of interest rates and the mortality experience.
b Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of insurance contracts The principal assumptions underlying the calculation of insurance contracts are as follows: Mortality assumptions Mortality assumptions have been set by reference to appropriate standard mortality tables.
These tables have been adjusted to reflect the future mortality experience of the policyholders, taking into account the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the underwriting process, premium size, gender and the Groups assessment of how this experience will develop in the future.
The assessment takes into consideration relevant industry and population studies, published research materials, input from the Groups lead reinsurer and managements own industry experience.
The standard tables which underpin the mortality assumptions are summarised in the table below.
2018 2017 Individually underwritten Guaranteed Income for Modified E&W Population mortality, with PCMA PCFA00, with CMI 2014 model mortality Life Solutions JRL modified CMI 2017 model mortality improvements for both Merica and PrognoSys improvements for both Merica and PrognoSys underwritten business underwritten business Individually underwritten Guaranteed Income for Modified E&W Population mortality, with Modified E&W Population mortality, with CMI 2014 Life Solutions PLACL modified CMI 2017 model mortality model mortality improvements improvements Defined Benefit JRL Modified E&W Population mortality, with Modified E&W Population mortality, with CMI 2016 modified CM 2017 model mortality model mortality improvements for standard improvements for standard underwritten underwritten business: business: Reinsurer supplied tables underpinned Reinsurer supplied tables underpinned by the by the Self-Administered Pension Scheme Self-Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S1 SAPS S1 tables, with CMI 2009 model tables, with CMI 2009 model mortality mortality improvements for medically improvements for medically underwritten business underwritten business Defined Benefit PLACL Modified E&W Population mortality, with Modified E&W Population mortality, with CMI 2015 modified CMI 2017 model mortality model mortality improvements improvements Care plans and other annuity products PLACL Modified PCMA PCFA and with modified Modified PCMA PCFA with CMI 2016 model CMI 2017 model mortality improvements mortality improvements for Care Plans: for Care Plans: Modified PCMA PCFA bespoke improvements for Modified PCMA PCFA or modified other annuity products E&W Population mortality with modified CMI 2017 model mortality improvements for other annuity products Protection PLACL TM TF00 Select TM TF00 Select STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 21 INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND RELATED REINSURANCE continued The long-term improvement rates in the modified CMI 2017 model are 2.0% for males and 1.75% for females 2017: long-term improvement rates in the CMI 2016 and earlier versions of the CMI model for mortality improvements range from 1.75% for males and 1.5% for females to 2.5% for males and 2.3% for females.
The period smoothing parameter in the modified CMI 2017 model has been set to 7.25 2017: core CMI models were used.
Valuation discount rates Valuation discount rate assumptions are set with regards to yields on supporting assets.
An explicit allowance for credit risk is included by making an explicit deduction from the yields on debt and other fixed income securities based on a prudent expectation of default experience of each asset class.
2018 2017 Valuation discount rates gross liabilities % % Individually underwritten Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions JRL 3.51 3.23 Individually underwritten Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions PLACL 3.47 3.11 Defined Benefit JRL 3.51 3.23 Defined Benefit PLACL 3.47 3.11 Other annuity products PLACL 1.32 0.95 Term and whole of life products PLACL 1.54 1.39 Future expenses Assumptions for future policy expense levels are determined from the Groups recent expense analyses.
The assumed future policy expense levels incorporate an annual inflation rate allowance of 4.6% 2017: 4.4% derived from the expected retail price index implied by inflation swap rates and an additional allowance for earnings inflation.
c Movements The following movements have occurred in the insurance contract balances for Retirement Income products during the year.
Gross Reinsurance Net Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m At 1 January 2018 16,633.0 5,285.3 11,347.7 Increase in liability from premiums 1,735.4 2.2 1,737.6 Release of liability due to recorded claims 1,213.2 419.8 793.4 Unwinding of discount 547.4 154.9 392.5 Changes in economic assumptions 286.6 136.4 150.2 Changes in non-economic assumptions 128.8 98.1 30.7 1 Other movements 13.4 544.5 531.1 At 31 December 2018 17,273.8 4,239.2 13,034.6 Gross Reinsurance Net Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m At 1 January 2017 15,748.0 6,057.1 9,690.9 Increase in liability from premiums 1,526.5 25.1 1,501.4 Release of liability due to recorded claims 1,133.6 457.6 676.0 Unwinding of discount 503.2 180.2 323.0 Changes in economic assumptions 210.7 43.6 167.1 Changes in non-economic assumptions 193.8 79.2 114.6 1 Other movements 28.0 483.9 455.9 At 31 December 2017 16,633.0 5,285.3 11,347.7 1 Includes the impact of reinsurance recapture.
Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year Economic assumption changes The principal economic assumption change impacting the movement in insurance liabilities during the year relates to discount rates for both JRL and PLACL.
132 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND RELATED REINSURANCE continued Discount rates The movement in the valuation interest rate captures the impact of underlying changes in risk-free curves and spreads on backing assets excluding Lifetime Mortgages and impact of changes to the property growth and volatility assumptions and mortality improvement rates on the Lifetime Mortgages.
The mortality improvement rates for Lifetime Mortgages have been aligned with mortality assumptions for annuities.
Both existing in-force assets and new assets purchased during the year contribute to the movement in the discount rate.
Differences between the discount rates recognised on new business written during the year and the prevailing discount rates on the entire portfolio of business also contribute to the movement in insurance liabilities.
Non-economic assumption changes The principal non-economic assumption changes impacting the movement in insurance liabilities during the year relate to maintenance expenses and mortality assumptions for both JRL and PLACL.
Expense assumption Cost synergies arising within the Group following the merger have been recognised through an overall reduction in maintenance expense assumptions.
This has resulted in a decrease in the carrying value of insurance liabilities.
The JRL GIfL maintenance expense assumption used at 31 December 2018 was 30.29 per plan 2017: 30.68, whilst the JRL DB maintenance assumption used at 31 December 2018 was 118.75 per scheme member 2017: 113.53.
The PLACL GIfL maintenance expense assumption used at 31 December 2018 was 29.30 per plan 2017: 23.69, whilst the PLACL DB maintenance assumption used at 31 December 2018 was 161.40 per scheme member 2017: 128.02.
An increase in the maintenance expense assumption increases the carrying value of the insurance liabilities.
Mortality assumptions For both JRL and PLACL mortality assumptions have been derived with reference to England & Wales population mortality using the CMI 2017 data set and model for both base table rates and mortality improvements 2017: England & Wales population mortality or CMI annuitant mortality tables for base mortality and CMI 2016 and earlier versions of the CMI model for mortality improvements.
These base mortality and improvement tables have been adjusted to reflect the expected future mortality experience of the lives insured, taking into account the medical and lifestyle evidence collected during the underwriting process and the Groups assessment of how this experience will develop in the future.
d Estimated timing of net cash outflows from insurance contract liabilities The following shows the insurance contract balances analysed by duration.
The total balances are split by duration of Retirement Income payments in proportion to the policy cash flows estimated to arise during the year.
Expected cash flows undiscounted Carrying Within 1 Over value year 1-5 years 5-10 years 10 years Total discounted 2018 m m m m m m Gross 1,243.2 4,715.5 5,353.2 14,667.9 25,979.8 17,273.8 Reinsurance 358.3 1,320.8 1,399.0 2,998.7 6,076.8 4,239.2 Net 884.9 3,394.7 3,954.2 11,669.2 19,903.0 13,034.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted Carrying Within 1 Over value year 1-5 years 5-10 years 10 years Total discounted 2017 m m m m m m Gross 1,158.9 4,395.2 4,948.2 13,934.2 24,436.5 16,633.0 Reinsurance 413.3 1,542.1 1,652.6 3,798.7 7,406.7 5,285.3 Net 745.6 2,853.1 3,295.6 10,135.5 17,029.8 11,347.7 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 133 21 INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND RELATED REINSURANCE continued e Sensitivity analysis The Group has estimated the impact on profit for the year in relation to insurance contracts and related reinsurance from changes in key assumptions relating to financial assets and liabilities.
Sensitivity factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return The impact of a change in the market interest rates by - 1% e. g. if a current interest rate is 5%, the impact of an immediate change to 4% and 6% respectively.
The test consistently allows for similar changes to both assets and liabilities Expenses The impact of an increase in maintenance expenses by 10% Base mortality rates The impact of a decrease in base table mortality rates by 5% applied to both Retirement Income liabilities and mortgage assets Immediate property price fall The impact of an immediate decrease in the value of properties by 10%.
The test allows for the impact on the Retirement Income liabilities arising from any change in yield on the loans secured by residential mortgages and loans secured by commercial mortgages used to back the liabilities Future property price growth The impact of a reduction in future property price growth by 0.5% Future property price volatility The impact of an increase in future property price volatility by 1% Voluntary redemptions The impact of an increase in voluntary redemption rates on loans secured by residential and commercial mortgages by 10%.
The test allows for the impact on the annuity liabilities arising from any change in yield on the loans secured by residential mortgages and loans secured by commercial mortgages used to back the liabilities Credit defaults The impact of an increase in credit default assumption of 10bps Mortality improvement rates The impact of a level increase in mortality improvement rates of 0.25% for both Retirement Income liabilities and mortgage assets Impact on profit before tax m Immediate Future Future Interest Interest Maintenance Base property property property price Voluntary Credit rates rates expenses mortality price fall price growth volatility redemptions defaults 1% -1% 10% -5% -10% -0.5% 1% 10% 10bps 2018 156.3 199.7 37.6 116.6 161.3 143.6 83.2 88.3 60.0 2017 123.3 127.1 52.1 125.9 122.7 124.8 71.7 98.7 65.2 The sensitivity to an additional 0.25% improvement in mortality rates in each future year for both annuity and lifetime mortgage business is 86.8 m. This is equivalent to a four month increase in life expectancy for a typical male aged 65.
The sensitivity factors are applied via financial models.
In reality, such an occurrence is unlikely, due to correlation between the assumptions and other factors.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities are non-linear, and larger or smaller impacts cannot be interpolated or extrapolated from these results.
The impacts indicated above for insurance contracts also reflect movements in financial derivatives, which are impacted by movements in interest rates.
Related reinsurance assets are not impacted by financial derivatives.
Other limitations in the above sensitivity analysis include the use of hypothetical market movements to demonstrate potential risk that only represents the Groups view of reasonably possible near-term market changes that cannot be predicted with any certainty, and the assumption that there is a parallel shift in interest rates at all durations.
134 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 INVESTMENT CONTRACT LIABILITIES Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At start of year 220.7 222.3 Deposits received from policyholders 51.0 51.2 Payments made to policyholders 73.5 59.1 Change in contract liabilities recognised in profit or loss 0.4 6.3 At end of year 197.8 220.7 Recoveries from reinsurers on investment contracts were 102.2m 2017: 72.3m as shown in note 15. a Terms and conditions of investment contracts The Group writes Flexible Pension Plan products for the at-retirement market.
Policyholder premiums are invested in selected unit-linked funds, with the policyholder able to drawdown on funds, the return on which will be based on actual investment returns.
The Group has written Capped Drawdown products for the at-retirement market.
These products are no longer available to new customers.
In return for a single premium, these contracts pay a guaranteed lump sum on survival to the end of the fixed term.
There is an option at outset to select a lower sum at maturity and regular income until the earlier of death or maturity.
Upon death of the policyholder and subject to the option selected at the outset, there may be a return of premium less income received or income payable to a dependant until the death of that dependant.
b Principal assumptions underlying the calculation of investment contracts Valuation discount rates Valuation discount rate assumptions for investment contracts are set with regard to yields on supporting assets.
An explicit allowance for credit risk isincluded by making an explicit deduction from the yields on debt and other fixed income securities based on historical default experience of each assetclass.
2018 2017 Valuation discount rates % % Investment contracts 3.51 3.23 23 LOANS AND BORROWINGS Carrying value Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m 100m 9.5% 10 year subordinated debt 2025 non-callable 5 years Tier 2 issued by Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited call option in March 2020 95.9 95.3 113.5 112.8 250m 9.0% 10 year subordinated debt 2026 Tier 2 issued by Just Group plc 248.8 248.6 289.9 282.3 230m 3.5% 7 year subordinated debt 2025 Tier 3 issued by Just Group plc 228.7 214.7 Total loans and borrowings 573.4 343.9 618.1 395.1 24 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The Group has other financial liabilities which are measured at either amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss, or in accordance with relevant underlying contracts insurance rules, summarised as follows.
2018 2017 Note m m Fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial liabilities a 178.3 236.3 Obligations for repayment of cash collateral received a 3.4 16.3 Deposits received from reinsurers b 2,443.5 2,654.1 Liabilities measured using insurance rules under IFRS 4 Deposits received from reinsurers b 1,236.3 1,901.4 Reinsurance finance c 30.6 49.3 Reinsurance funds withheld d 171.2 188.0 Total other liabilities 4,063.3 5,045.4 The amount of deposits received from reinsurers and reinsurance funds withheld that is expected to be settled more than one year after the Consolidated statement of financial position date is 3,730.4m 2017: 4,363.3m.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 24 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES continued a Derivative financial liabilities and obligations for repayment of cash collateral received The derivative financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such on initial recognition or, in the case of derivative financial liabilities, are classified as held for trading.
b Deposits received from reinsurers Deposits received from reinsurers are measured in accordance with the reinsurance contract and taking into account an appropriate discount rate for the timing of expected cash flows of the liabilities.
c Reinsurance finance The reinsurance finance has been established in recognition of the loan obligation to the reinsurers under the Groups reinsurance financing arrangements, the repayment of which are contingent upon the emergence of surplus under the old Solvency I valuation rules.
d Reinsurance funds withheld Reinsurance funds withheld are measured and valued in accordance with the reinsurance contract, which takes into account an appropriate discount rate for the timing of expected cash flows.
25 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rates, counterparty credit risk, property risk, inflation and foreign exchange risk.
2018 2017 Liability Notional Asset Liability Notional Asset fair value amount fair value fair value amount fair value Derivatives m m m m m m Foreign currency swaps 1.3 131.8 1,186.5 7.7 71.1 866.2 Interest rate swaps 36.2 9.5 2,131.8 63.7 48.8 1,527.5 Inflation swaps 38.0 27.6 1,879.3 25.6 31.1 1,689.1 Forward swaps 0.6 9.4 927.6 1.8 1.0 385.8 Put option on property index 3.3 80.0 Credit default swaps 0.5 43.4 Interest rate futures 1.8 186.0 1.4 83.8 186.0 Total 81.2 178.3 6,391.2 100.2 236.3 4,698.0 The Groups derivative financial instruments are not designated as hedging instruments and changes in their fair value are included in profit or loss.
Derivatives are used to manage the Groups European embedded value and regulatory capital, which is affected by a surplus of long dated fixed interest securities when liabilities are measured on a realistic basis.
All over-the-counter derivative transactions are conducted under standardised International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. master agreements, and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had pledged collateral of 152.6m 2017: 119.3m of which nil were gilts and European Investment Bank bonds 2017: 5.8m and had received cash collateral of 3.4m 2017: 16.3m.
In addition to the cash collateral received recognised within other financial liabilities see note 24, certain collateral arrangements within the Groups subsidiary, PLACL, give rise to collateral of 10.4m 2017: 6.7m which is not included in the Consolidated statement of financial position of the Group because it is deposited into a ringfenced collateral account that the Group has no control over and does not accrue any of the economic benefit.
Amounts recognised in profit or loss in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Movement in fair value of derivative instruments 49.0 30.1 Realised losses on interest rate swaps closed 16.3 1.4 Total amounts recognised in profit or loss 65.3 28.7 136 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 REINSURANCE The Group uses reinsurance as an integral part of its risk and capital management activities.
New business was reinsured via longevity swap arrangements as follows: DB is 55% reinsured for underwritten schemes, and 75% for non-underwritten schemes 55% prior to 1 January 2016.
GIfL is 75% reinsured 45% prior to 1 January 2016.
Care is 42.5% reinsured 90% prior to 1 April 2016.
In-force business is reinsured under longevity swap and quota share treaties.
The quota share treaties have deposit back or premium withheld arrangements to remove the majority of the reinsurer credit risk.
The quota share treaties entered into by the Groups subsidiary, JRL, include financing arrangements see note 24 c, the repayment of which is contingent upon the emergence of surplus under the old Solvency I valuation rules.
The Group retains a capital benefit under Solvency II from the financing arrangements as these form part of the transitional calculations.
These treaties also allow JRL to recapture business once the financing has been repaid.
During the year the Group recaptured business in respect of certain underwriting years that resulted in a decrease of ceded liabilities of 543.3m and a reduction of equal amount in the deposit received.
In addition to the deposits received from reinsurers recognised within other financial liabilities see note 24 b, certain reinsurance arrangements within the Groups subsidiary, PLACL, give rise to deposits from reinsurers that are not included in the Consolidated statement of financial position of the Group as described below: The Group has an agreement with two reinsurers whereby financial assets arising from the payment of reinsurance premiums, less the repayment of claims, in relation to specific treaties, are legally and physically deposited back with the Group.
Although the funds are managed by the Group as the Group controls the investment of the asset, no future benefits accrue to the Group as any returns on the deposits are paid to reinsurers.
Consequently, the deposits are not recognised as assets of the Group and the investment income they produce does not accrue to the Group.
The Group has an agreement with one reinsurer whereby assets equal to the reinsurers full obligation under the treaty are deposited into a ringfenced collateral account.
The Group has first claim over these assets should the reinsurer default, but as the Group has no control over these funds and does not accrue any future benefit, this fund is not recognised as an asset of the Group.
2018 2017 m m Deposits managed by the Group 191.6 221.3 Deposits held in trust 272.8 295.4 Total deposits not included in the Consolidated statement of financial position 464.4 516.7 27 OTHER PROVISIONS Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At start of year 2.1 8.5 Amounts utilised 1.4 6.4 At end of year 0.7 2.1 The amount of provisions that is expected to be settled more than 12 months after the Consolidated statement of financial position date is 0.5m 2017: 0.5m.
28 CURRENT TAX Current tax assets liabilities receivable payable in more than one year are nil 2017: nil.
29 ACCRUALS AND DEFERRED INCOME Accruals and deferred income payable in more than one year are 0.6m 2017: 1.1m.
30 INSURANCE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 m m Payables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts 21.2 34.0 Other payables 57.1 51.5 Total insurance and other payables 78.3 85.5 Insurance and other payables due in more than one year are nil 2017: nil.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137 31 COMMITMENTS Operating leases The Group leases a number of properties under operating leases.
The future minimum lease payments payable over the remaining terms of noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 2.4 2.1 Between one and five years 8.2 6.4 More than five years 2.7 3.4 Total future minimum lease payments 13.3 11.9 Capital commitments The Group had no capital commitments as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
32 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group has recognised 0.3m of contingent consideration on the acquisition of Corinthian Group Limited.
There are no other contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
33 FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT This note presents information about the major financial and insurance risks to which the Group is exposed, and its objectives, policies and processes for their measurement and management.
Financial risk comprises exposure to market, credit and liquidity risk.
a Insurance risk The writing of long-term insurance contracts requires a range of assumptions to be made and risk arises from these assumptions being materially inaccurate.
The Groups main insurance risk arises from adverse experience compared with the assumptions used in pricing products and valuing insurance liabilities, and in addition its reinsurance treaties may be terminated, not renewed, or renewed on terms less favourable than those under existing treaties.
Insurance risk arises through exposure to longevity, mortality and morbidity and exposure to factors such as withdrawal levels and management and administration expenses.
Individually underwritten GIfL are priced using assumptions about future longevity that are based on historic experience information, lifestyle and medical factors relevant to individual customers, and judgements about the future development of longevity improvements.
In the event of an increase in longevity, the actuarial reserve required to make future payments to customers may increase.
Loans secured by mortgages are used to match some of the liabilities arising from the sale of GIfL and DB business.
In the event that early repayments in a given period are higher than anticipated, less interest will have accrued on the mortgages and the amount repayable will be less than assumed at the time of sale.
In the event of an increase in longevity, although more interest will have accrued and the amount repayable will be greater than assumed at the time of the sale, the associated cash flows will be received later than had originally been anticipated.
In addition, a general increase in longevity would have the effect of increasing the total amount repayable, which would increase the LTV ratio and could increase the risk of failing to be repaid in full as a consequence of the no-negative equity guarantee.
There is also morbidity risk exposure as the contract ends when the customer moves into long-term care.
Underpinning the management of insurance risk are: the development and use of medical information including PrognoSys for both pricing and reserving to provide detailed insight into longevity risk: adherence to approved underwriting requirements: controls around the development of suitable products and their pricing: review and approval of assumptions used by the Board: regular monitoring and analysis of actual experience: use of reinsurance to minimise volatility of capital requirement and profit: and monitoring of expense levels.
Concentrations of insurance risk Concentration of insurance risk comes from improving longevity.
Improved longevity arises from enhanced medical treatment and improved life circumstances.
Concentration risk is managed by writing business across a wide range of different medical and lifestyle conditions to avoid excessive exposure.
138 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT continued b Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss or of adverse change in the financial situation resulting, directly or indirectly, from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial instruments, together with the impact of changes in interest rates.
Significant market risk is implicit in the insurance business and arises from exposure to interest rate risk, property risk, inflation risk and currency risk.
The Group is not exposed to any equity risk or material currency risk.
Market risk represents both upside and downside impacts but the Groups policy to manage market risk is to limit downside risk.
Falls in the financial markets can reduce the value of pension funds available to purchase Retirement Income products and changes in interest rates can affect the relative attractiveness of Retirement Income products.
Changes in the value of the Groups investment portfolio will also affect the Groups financial position.
In mitigation, Retirement Income product monies are invested to match the asset and liability cash flows as closely as practicable.
In practice, it is not possible to eliminate market risk fully as there are inherent uncertainties surrounding many of the assumptions underlying the projected asset and liability cash flows.
For each of the material components of market risk, described in more detail below, the market risk policy sets out the risk appetite and management processes governing how each risk should be measured, managed, monitored and reported.
i Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its impact on the value of, or income from, specific assets, liabilities or both.
It seeks to limit its exposure through appropriate asset and liability matching and hedging strategies.
The Groups exposure to changes in interest rates is concentrated in the investment portfolio, loans secured by mortgages and its insurance obligations.
Changes in investment and loan values attributable to interest rate changes are mitigated by corresponding and partially offsetting changes in the value of insurance liabilities.
The Group monitors this exposure through regular reviews of the asset and liability position, capital modelling, sensitivity testing and scenario analyses.
Interest rate risk is also managed using derivative instruments e. g. swaps.
The following table indicates the earlier of contractual repricing or maturity dates for the Groups significant financial assets.
Less than One to five Five to ten Over ten No fixed one year years years years term Total 2018 m m m m m m Units in liquidity funds 882.5 882.5 Investment funds 112.2 69.8 182.0 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 829.6 2,732.8 2,514.9 3,441.0 9,518.3 Deposits with credit institutions 153.4 153.4 Derivative financial assets 3.5 13.7 5.2 58.8 81.2 Loans secured by residential mortgages 7,191.5 7,191.5 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 12.3 173.5 142.4 64.1 392.3 Other loans 2.7 8.3 62.3 675.8 749.1 Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on investment contracts 102.2 102.2 Total 2,098.4 2,998.1 2,724.8 4,239.7 7,191.5 19,252.5 Less than One to five Five to ten Over ten No fixed one year years years years term Total 2017 m m m m m m Units in liquidity funds 897.9 897.9 Investment funds 46.3 46.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 994.1 2,570.0 2,408.6 3,616.8 9,589.5 Deposits with credit institutions 87.9 87.9 Derivative financial assets 3.3 13.7 8.6 74.6 100.2 Loans secured by residential mortgages 6,833.3 6,833.3 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 103.4 89.8 22.2 215.4 Other loans 0.8 3.1 3.0 437.4 444.3 Amounts recoverable from reinsurers on investment contracts 72.3 72.3 Total 2,102.6 2,690.2 2,510.0 4,151.0 6,833.3 18,287.1 A sensitivity analysis of the impact of interest rate movements on profit before tax is included in note 21 e. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 33 FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT continued ii Property risk The Groups exposure to property risk arises from indirect exposure to the UK residential property market through the provision of lifetime mortgages.
A substantial decline or sustained underperformance in UK residential property prices, against which the Groups lifetime mortgages are secured, could result in proceeds on sale being exceeded by the mortgage debt at the date of redemption.
Demand may also reduce for lifetime mortgage products through reducing consumers propensity to borrow and by reducing the amount they are able to borrow due to reductions in property values and the impact on loan-to-value limits.
The risk is mitigated by ensuring that the advance represents a low proportion of the propertys value at outset and independent third party valuations are undertaken on each property before initial mortgages are advanced.
Lifetime mortgage contracts are also monitored through dilapidation reviews.
House prices are monitored and the impact of exposure to adverse house prices both regionally and nationally is regularly reviewed.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of property price movements on profit before tax is included in note 21 e. iii Inflation risk Inflation risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of, or income from, specific assets or liabilities or both in combination, arising from relative or absolute changes in inflation or in the volatility of inflation.
Exposure to inflation occurs in relation to the Groups own management expenses and its matching of index-linked Retirement Income products.
Its impact is managed through the application of disciplined cost control over its management expenses and through matching its index-linked assets and index-linked liabilities for the inflation risk associated with its index-linked Retirement Income products.
iv Currency risk Currency risk arises from fluctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated in foreign currencies, from relative or absolute changes in foreign exchange rates or in the volatility of exchange rates.
Exposure to currency risk could arise from the Groups investment in non-sterling denominated assets.
From time to time, the Group acquires fixed income securities denominated in US dollars or other foreign currencies for its financial asset portfolio.
All material Group liabilities are in sterling.
As the Group does not wish to introduce foreign exchange risk into its investment portfolio, derivative or quasi-derivative contracts are entered into to eliminate the foreign exchange exposure as far as possible.
c Credit risk Credit risk arises if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group, including failing to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk exposures arise from: Holding fixed income investments where the main risks are default and market risk.
The risk of default where the counterparty fails to pay back the capital and or interest on a corporate bond is mitigated by investing only in higher quality or investment grade assets.
Market risk is the risk of bond prices falling as a result of concerns over the counterparty, or over the market or economy in which the issuing company operates.
This leads to wider spreads the difference between redemption yields and a risk-free return, the impact of which is mitigated through the use of a hold to maturity strategy.
Concentration of credit risk exposures is managed by placing limits on exposures to individual counterparties and limits on exposures to credit rating levels.
The Group also manages credit risk on its corporate bond portfolio through the appointment of specialist fund managers, who execute a diversified investment strategy, investing in investment-grade assets and imposing individual counterparty limits.
Current economic and market conditions are closely monitored, as are spreads on the bond portfolio in comparison with benchmark data.
Counterparties in derivative contracts the Group uses financial instruments to mitigate interest rate and currency risk exposures.
It therefore has credit exposure to various counterparties through which it transacts these instruments, although this is usually mitigated by collateral arrangements see note 25.
Reinsurance reinsurance is used to manage longevity risk but, as a consequence, credit risk exposure arises should a reinsurer fail to meet its claim repayment obligations.
Credit risk on reinsurance balances is mitigated by the reinsurer depositing back more than 100% of premiums ceded under the reinsurance agreement.
Cash balances credit risk on cash assets is managed by imposing restrictions over the credit ratings of third parties with whom cash is deposited.
Credit risk credit risks for loans secured by mortgages has been considered within property risk above.
140 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT continued The following table provides information regarding the credit risk exposure for financial assets of the Group, which are neither past due nor impaired at 31 December: UK gilts AAA AA A BBB BB or below Unrated Total 2018 m m m m m m m m Units in liquidity funds 877.7 4.8 882.5 Investment funds 13.7 168.3 182.0 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 623.4 832.1 938.3 2,916.7 3,555.9 208.2 443.7 9,518.3 Deposits with credit institutions 111.0 41.6 0.8 153.4 Derivative financial assets 0.3 30.1 50.8 81.2 Loans secured by residential mortgages 7,191.5 7,191.5 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 392.3 392.3 Other loans 89.1 117.1 93.3 423.7 25.9 749.1 Reinsurance 189.3 294.2 6.9 490.4 Insurance and other receivables 18.9 18.9 Total 623.4 1,798.9 1,263.5 3,445.3 4,072.0 208.2 8,248.3 19,659.6 UK gilts AAA AA A BBB BB or below Unrated Total 2017 m m m m m m m m Units in liquidity funds 894.3 3.6 897.9 Investment funds 7.2 39.1 46.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 552.9 792.6 886.2 3,298.3 3,488.2 151.0 420.3 9,589.5 Deposits with credit institutions 29.8 57.2 0.9 87.9 Derivative financial assets 0.8 18.8 80.6 100.2 Loans secured by residential mortgages 6,833.3 6,833.3 Loans secured by commercial mortgages 215.4 215.4 Other loans 64.2 50.3 318.8 11.0 444.3 Reinsurance 294.7 347.8 5.2 0.4 648.1 Insurance and other receivables 44.5 44.5 Total 552.9 1,751.1 1,192.5 3,745.0 3,950.0 151.0 7,564.9 18,907.4 The credit rating for Cash and cash equivalents assets at 31 December 2018 was between a range of AA and BB.
The carrying amount of those assets subject to credit risk represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
d Liquidity risk The investment of Retirement Income cash in corporate bonds, gilts and lifetime mortgages, and commitments to pay policyholders and other obligations, requires liquidity risks to be taken.
Liquidity risk is the risk of loss because the Group, although solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to it in order to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Exposure to liquidity risk arises from: deterioration in the external environment caused by economic shocks, regulatory changes, reputational damage, or an economic shock resulting from Brexit: realising assets to meet liabilities during stressed market conditions: increasing cash flow volatility in the short term giving rise to mismatches between cash flows from assets and requirements from liabilities: needing to support liquidity requirements for day-to-day operations: ensuring financial support can be provided across the Group: and maintaining and servicing collateral requirements arising from the changes in market value of financial derivatives used by the Group.
Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that assets of a suitable maturity and marketability are held to meet liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups short-term liquidity requirements are predominantly funded by advance Retirement Income premium payments, investment coupon receipts, and bond principal repayments out of which contractual payments need to be made.
There are significant barriers for policyholders to withdraw funds that have already been paid to the Group in the form of premiums.
Cash outflows associated with Retirement Income liabilities can be reasonably estimated and liquidity can be arranged to meet this expected outflow through asset-liability matching and new business premiums.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 141 33 FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT continued The cash flow characteristics of the lifetime mortgages are reversed when compared with Retirement Income products, with cash flows effectively representing an advance payment, which is eventually funded by repayment of principal plus accrued interest.
Policyholders are able to redeem mortgages, albeit at a cost.
The mortgage assets are considered illiquid, as they are not readily saleable due to the uncertainty about their value and the lack of a market in which to trade them.
Cash flow forecasts over the short, medium and long term are regularly prepared to predict and monitor liquidity levels in line with limits set on the minimum amount of liquid assets required.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the financial liabilities, including both principal and interest payments, of the Group based on remaining undiscounted contractual obligations: Within one year or payable on One to More than No fixed demand five years five years term 2018 m m m m Subordinated debt 40.8 203.8 672.0 Derivative financial liabilities 10.4 86.1 486.9 Obligations for repayment of cash collateral received 3.4 Deposits received from reinsurers 316.6 1,156.4 3,675.6 Reinsurance finance 30.6 Reinsurance funds withheld 16.3 59.9 148.8 Within one year or payable on One to More than No fixed demand five years five years term 2017 m m m m Subordinated debt 32.0 160.0 478.0 Derivative financial liabilities 107.9 114.7 999.7 Obligations for repayment of cash collateral received 16.3 Deposits received from reinsurers 365.4 1,354.6 4,508.8 Reinsurance finance 49.3 Reinsurance funds withheld 16.9 62.5 163.7 34 CAPITAL The net assets of the Group at 31 December 2018 on an IFRS basis were 1,663.8m 2017: 1,740.5m.
The Group manages capital on a regulatory basis.
Since 1 January 2016, the Group has been required to measure and monitor its capital resources on a new regulatory basis and to comply with the requirements established by the Solvency II Framework Directive, as adopted by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in the UK.
The Group and its regulated subsidiaries are required to maintain eligible capital, or Own Funds, in excess of the value of their Solvency Capital Requirements SCR.
The SCR represents the risk capital required to be set aside to absorb 1 in 200 year stress tests of each risk type that the Group is exposed to, including longevity risk, property risk, credit risk and interest rate risk.
These risks are all aggregated with appropriate allowance for diversification benefits.
In December 2015, Just Retirement Group plc and JRL received approval to calculate their Solvency II capital requirements using a full internal model which continued to be used for those parts of the Group at December 2016.
The capital requirement for the ex-Partnership business is assessed using the standard formula.
The surplus of Own Funds over the SCR is called Excess Own Funds and this effectively acts as working capital for the Group.
The overriding objective of the Solvency II capital framework is to ensure there is sufficient capital within the insurance company to protect policyholders and meet their payments when due.
In managing its capital the Group undertakes stress and scenario testing to consider the Groups capacity to respond to a series of relevant financial, insurance, or operational shocks or changes to financial regulations should future circumstances or events differ from current assumptions.
The review also considers mitigating actions available to the Group should a stress scenario occur, such as raising capital, varying the volumes of new business written and a scenario where the Group does not write new business.
The Groups capital position can be adversely affected by a number of factors, in particular factors that erode the Groups capital resources and or which impact the quantum of risk to which the Group is exposed.
In addition, any event which erodes current profitability and is expected to reduce future profitability and or make profitability more volatile could impact the Groups capital position, which in turn could have a negative effect on the Groups results of operations.
142 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 CAPITAL continued In assessing the Groups capital position the requirements of PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages, published by the PRA in December 2018, have been taken into account.
The publication of PS31 18 has significantly reduced the uncertainty created by CP13 18 Solvency II: Equity release mortgages and includes a number of key changes which are material to the Group, such as the deferral of the implementation date to 31 December 2019, confirmation that transitional measures for technical provisions for pre-2016 business will be recognised over the remaining transitional period to 31 December 2031, a requirement that firms must meet an effective value test using a volatility rate of 13% and a deferment rate of 0% at the end of 2019 and that the deferment rate should increase to 1% by year end 2021.
PS31 18 also noted a number of areas for further consideration, in particular the calculation of the SCR.
There is still some uncertainty as regards areas for further PRA consultation and determination, which include the process by which the volatility and deferment rates will be reset and how the effective value test applies in stress.
Given that the Group continues to experience a high level of regulatory activity and intense regulatory supervision, there is also the risk of PRA intervention, not limited to the matters described in the paragraph above, which could negatively impact on the Groups capital position.
The Group plans to strengthen its capital position during 2019 and beyond in order to continue to write anticipated levels of new business.
On 14 March 2019 the Group announced an underwritten Restricted Tier 1 debt offering of at least 300m and an underwritten non pre-emptive equity placing of 9.99% of existing share capital.
In addition, the Board will continue to review the need for further capital and its optimal capital mix including the refinancing of the existing Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Tier 2 debt which has a call option in March 2020.
Further information on the matters considered by the Directors at 31 December 2018 in relation to capital and going concern is included in note 1.1, Basis of preparation.
The Groups objectives when managing capital for all subsidiaries are: to comply with the insurance capital requirements required by the regulators of the insurance markets where the Group operates.
The Groups policy is to manage its capital in line with its risk appetite and in accordance with regulatory requirements: to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: to continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing insurance and investment contracts commensurately with the level of risk.
Group entities that are under supervisory regulation and are required to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital include: Just Retirement Limited and Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited authorised by the PRA, and regulated by the PRA and FCA.
HUB Financial Solutions Limited, Just Retirement Money Limited, and Partnership Home Loans Limited authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The Group and its regulated subsidiaries complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
Group capital position unaudited The Groups estimated capital surplus position at 31 December 2018, which is unaudited, and is stated after including 12 months amortisation of transitional relief, was as follows: Minimum Group Solvency Solvency Capital Requirement Capital Requirement 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Eligible Own Funds 2,288.9 2,135.1 1,762.9 1,815.0 Capital Requirement 1,591.4 1,539.2 392.5 382.2 Excess Own Funds 697.5 595.9 1,370.4 1,432.8 Coverage ratio 144% 139% 449% 475% 35 GROUP ENTITIES On 4 July 2018, the Group subscribed for 33% of the ordinary share capital of Spire Platform Solutions Limited, a newly incorporated company, for a consideration of 500.
The Group has majority representation on the Board of the company, giving it effective control, and therefore consolidates the company in full in the results of the Group.
On 17 August 2018, the Group acquired 75% of the ordinary share capital of Corinthian Group Limited for consideration of 1.2m.
The Groups share of net assets acquired was 0.2m, consisting mainly of trading balances, resulting in goodwill recognised on acquisition of 1.0m.
In 2018 revenue of 1.2m and profit of nil have been recognised in the Groups Consolidated statement of comprehensive income since acquisition.
As a result of the above transactions, the non-controlling interests of the minority shareholders of Spire Platform Solutions Limited and Corinthian Group Limited totalling 0.6 m have been recognised in the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 143 35 GROUP ENTITIES continued The Group holds investment in the ordinary shares unless otherwise stated of the following subsidiary undertakings and associate undertakings.
Allsubsidiary undertakings have a financial year end at 31 December.
Percentage of nominal share capital and voting Principal activity Registered office rights held Direct subsidiary Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited Holding company Reigate 100% Partnership Assurance Group Limited Holding company London 100% Indirect subsidiary HUB Acquisitions Limited1 Holding company Reigate 100% HUB Financial Solutions Limited Distribution Reigate 100% HUB Online Development Limited Software development Belfast 100% Just Management Services Proprietary Limited Management services South Africa 100% Just Re 1 Limited Investment activity Reigate 100% Just Re 2 Limited Investment activity Reigate 100% Just Retirement Holdings Limited Holding company Reigate 100% Just Retirement South Africa Holdings Pty Limited Holding company South Africa 100% Just Retirement Life South Africa Limited Life assurance South Africa 100% Just Retirement Limited Life assurance Reigate 100% Just Retirement Management Services Limited Management services Reigate 100% Just Retirement Money Limited Provision of lifetime mortgage products Reigate 100% Partnership Group Holdings Limited Holding company London 100% Partnership Holdings Limited Holding company London 100% Partnership Home Loans Limited Provision of lifetime mortgage products London 100% Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited Life assurance London 100% Partnership Life US Company Management services USA 100% Partnership Services Limited Management services London 100% PASPV Limited Investment activity London 100% PayingForCare Limited Website Reigate 100% PLACL RE 1 Limited Investment activity Reigate 100% PLACL RE 2 Limited Investment activity Reigate 100% The Open Market Annuity Service Limited Software solutions Belfast 100% TOMAS Online Development Limited Software development Belfast 100% Enhanced Retirement Limited Dormant Reigate 100% HUB Pension Consulting Limited Dormant Reigate 100% HUB Pension Solutions Limited Dormant Reigate 100% HUB Transfer Solutions Limited Dormant Reigate 100% JRP Group Limited Dormant Reigate 100% JRP Nominees Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Annuities Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Equity Release Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Incorporated Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Protection Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Retirement Finance plc Dormant Reigate 100% Just Retirement Nominees Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Just Retirement Solutions Limited Dormant Reigate 100% PAG Finance Limited Dormant Jersey 100% PAG Holdings Limited Dormant Jersey 100% 144 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 GROUP ENTITIES continued Percentage of nominal share capital and voting Principal activity Registered office rights held TOMAS Acquisitions Limited Dormant Reigate 100% Corinthian Group Limited Holding company Reigate 75% Corinthian Pension Consulting Limited Pension consulting Reigate 75% 2 3 Spire Platform Solutions Limited Software development Portsmouth 33% Associate Eldercare Group Limited Independent financial advisers Hitchin 33% Eldercare Solutions Limited Independent financial advisers Hitchin 33% Eldercare Property Partners Limited Independent financial advisers Hitchin 33% Care Fees Investment Limited Dormant Hitchin 33% 1Class A and Class B ordinary shares.
3 Control is based on Board representation rather than percentage holding.
Registered offices Reigate office: London office: Belfast office: South Africa office: Vale House 5th Floor, 110 Bishopsgate 3rd Floor, Arena Building Office G01, Big Bay Office Park Roebuck Close, Bancroft Road London EC2N 4AY Ormeau Road 16 Beach Estate Boulevard, Big Bay Reigate, Surrey RH2 7RU Belfast BT7 1SH Western Cape 7441 Jersey office: United States office: Portsmouth office: Hitchin office: 44 Esplanade 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400 Building 3000, Lakeside North Harbour Suite 4, Titmore Court, Titmore Green St Helier Wilmington Portsmouth Little Wymondley, Hitchin Jersey JE4 9WG Delaware Hampshire PO6 3EN Hertfordshire SG4 7JT 36 RELATED PARTIES The Group has related party relationships with its key management personnel and associated undertakings.
All transactions with related parties are carried out on an arms length basis.
Key management personnel comprise the Directors of the Company.
There were no material transactions between the Group and its key management personnel other than those disclosed below.
Key management compensation is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.4 4.8 Share-based payments 2.7 2.3 Total key management compensation 7.1 7.1 Loans owed by Directors 0.4 0.3 The loan advances to Directors accrue interest fixed at 4% per annum and are repayable in whole or in part at any time.
37 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY AND ULTIMATE CONTROLLING PARTY The Company is the ultimate Parent Company of the Group and has no controlling interest.
38 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 14 March 2019 the Group announced an underwritten Restricted Tier 1 debt offering of at least 300m and an underwritten non pre-emptive equity placing of 9.99% of existing share capital.
There are no other post balance sheet events that have taken place between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
