STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 153 Glossary Acquisition costs acquisition costs comprise the direct costs such as Defined contribution DC pension scheme a work-based or personal commissions of obtaining new business.
pension scheme in which contributions are invested to build up a fund that can be used by the individual member to provide retirement benefits.
Adjusted earnings per share an APM, this measures earnings per share based on adjusted operating profit after attributed tax, rather than IFRS fide-risk fide-risking an action carried out by the trustees of a pension profit before tax.
This measure is calculated by taking the adjusted scheme with the aim of transferring investment, inflation and longevity operating profit APM, reduced for the effective tax rate 19% for 2018, and risk from the sponsoring employer and scheme to a third party such dividing this result by the weighted average number of shares in issue by as an insurer.
Development expenditure development expenditure captures costs Adjusted operating profit before tax an APM and one of the Groups relating to the development of new products and new initiatives, and is KPIs, this is the sum of the new business operating profit and in-force included within adjusted operating profit.
operating profit together with the impact of one-off assumption changes, experience variances, results of the other Group companies and financing Drawdown in reference to Just Group sales or products collective term costs.
Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to IFRS profit before tax on for Flexible Pension Plan and Capped Drawdown.
Economic capital coverage ratio an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, Alternative performance measure APM in addition to statutory IFRS economic capital is a key risk-based capital measure and expresses the performance measures, the Group has presented a number of nonBoards view of the available capital as a percentage of the required capital.
statutory alternative performance measures APMs within the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board believes that the APMs used give a more Embedded value an APM, this represents the sum of shareholders net representative view of the underlying performance of the Group.
APMs are assets and the value of in-force business, and is a measure in assessing the identified in this glossary together with a reference to where the APM has future profit streams of the Groups long-term business.
It also recognises been reconciled to its nearest statutory equivalent.
APMs which are also the additional value of profits in the business that has been written but not KPIs are indicated as such.
yet recognised under IFRS accounting.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets amortisation costs Employee benefits consultant EBC an adviser offering specialist relate to the amortisation of the Groups intangible assets, including the knowledge to employers on the legal, regulatory and practical issues of amortisation of intangible assets recognised in relation to the acquisition rewarding staff including non-wage compensation such as pensions, of Partnership Assurance Group plc by Just Retirement Group plc.
health and life insurance and profit sharing.
Auto-enrolment new legal duties being phased in that require Equity release products and services enabling homeowners to generate employers to automatically enrol workers into a workplace pension.
income or lump sums by accessing some of the value of the home while continuing to live in it.
Buy-in an exercise enabling a pension scheme to obtain an insurance contract that pays a guaranteed stream of income sufficient to cover the Finance costs finance costs represent interest payable on reinsurance liabilities of a group of the schemes members.
deposits and financing, the interest on the Groups Tier 2 debt, and, in the prior year, bank finance costs.
Buy-out an exercise that wholly transfers the liability for paying member benefits from the pension scheme to an insurer which then becomes Flexi-access drawdown the option introduced in April 2015 for DC responsible for paying the members directly.
pension savers who have taken tax-free cash to take a taxable income directly from their remaining pension with no limit on withdrawals.
Capped Drawdown a non-marketed product from Just Group previously described as Fixed Term Annuity.
Capped Drawdown products ceased to Gross premiums written gross premiums written are the total premiums be available to new customers when the tax legislation changed for received by the Group in relation to its Retirement Income and Protection pensions in April 2015. sales in the year, gross of commission paid.
Care Plan a specialist insurance contract contributing to the costs of Guaranteed Guidance see Pensions Wise on page 154. long-term care by paying a guaranteed income to a registered care provider for the remainder of a persons life.
Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL retirement income products which transfer the investment and longevity risk to the Company and provide the Change in insurance liabilities change in insurance liabilities represents retiree a guarantee to pay an agreed level of income for as long as a the difference between the year-on-year change in the carrying value of retiree lives.
On a joint-life basis, continues to pay a guaranteed income the Groups insurance liabilities and the year-on-year change in the to a surviving spouse partner.
Just provides modern individually carrying value of the Groups reinsurance assets including the effect of the underwritten GIfL solutions.
IFRS net assets one of the Groups KPIs, representing the assets Combined Group Just Group following completion of the merger with attributable to equity holders.
Partnership Assurance Group plc, Just Group plc and each of its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings comprising the Just IFRS profit before tax one of the Groups KPIs, representing the profit Retirement Group and the Partnership Assurance Group.
before tax attributable to equity holders.
Defined benefit pension scheme a pension scheme, usually backed or In-force operating profit an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, capturing sponsored by an employer, that pays members a guaranteed level of the expected margin to emerge from the in-force book of business and retirement income based on length of membership and earnings.
free surplus, and results from the gradual release of prudent reserving margins over the lifetime of the policies.
In-force operating profit is reconciled to IFRS profit before tax on pages 25 and 29.
154 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Glossary continued Investment and economic profits investment and economic profits Other operating expenses other operating expenses represent the reflect the difference in the year between expected investment returns, Groups operational overheads, including personnel expenses, investment based on investment and economic assumptions at the start of the year, expenses and charges, depreciation of equipment, reinsurance fees, and the actual returns earned.
Investment and economic profits also operating leases, amortisation of intangibles, and other expenses incurred reflect the impact of assumption changes in future expected risk-free in running the Groups operations.
rates, corporate bond defaults and house price inflation and volatility.
Pension Freedoms Pension Freedom and Choice Pension Reforms the Key performance indicators KPIs KPIs are metrics adopted by the UK Governments pension reforms, implemented in April 2015.
Board which are considered to give an understanding of the Groups underlying performance drivers.
The Groups KPIs are new business sales, Pensions Wise the free and impartial service introduced in April 2015 to new business operating profit, in-force operating profit, adjusted operating provide Guaranteed Guidance to defined contribution pension savers profit, IFRS profit before tax, IFRS net assets, Solvency II capital coverage considering taking money from their pensions.
ratio and economic capital coverage ratio.
PrognoSys a next generation underwriting system, which is based on Lifetime mortgages an equity release product that allows homeowners individual mortality curves derived from Just Groups own data collected to take out a loan secured on the value of their home, typically with the since its launch in 2004. loan plus interest repaid when the home is no longer needed.
Regulated financial advice personalised financial advice for retail Medical underwriting the process of evaluating an individuals current customers by qualified advisers who are regulated by the Financial health, medical history and lifestyle factors, such as smoking, when Conduct Authority.
Reinsurance and finance costs the interest on subordinated debt, bank Net claims paid net claims paid represents the total payments due to loans and reinsurance financing, together with reinsurance fees incurred.
policyholders during the accounting period, less the reinsurers share of such claims which are payable back to the Group under the terms of the Retirement Income sales in reference to Just Group sales or products reinsurance treaties.
collective term for GIfL, DB and Care Plan.
Net investment income net investment income comprises interest Retirement sales in reference to Just Group sales or products collective received on financial assets and the net gains and losses on financial term for Retirement Income sales and Drawdown.
assets designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and on financial derivatives.
Simplified advice regulated financial advice offering a limited service on a limited or specialist area of financial need, such as retirement, to retail Net premium revenue net premium revenue represents the sum of customers taking into account information relevant to that need.
gross premiums written and reinsurance recapture, less reinsurance premium ceded.
Solvency II an EU Directive that codifies and harmonises the EU insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of capital that EU New business operating profit an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, insurance companies must hold to reduce the risk of insolvency.
representing the profit generated from new business written in the year after allowing for the establishment of prudent reserves and for Solvency II capital coverage ratio one of the Groups KPIs.
New business operating profit is reconciled to IFRS capital is the regulatory capital measure and is focused on by the Board in profit before tax in the Financial Review.
capital planning and business planning alongside the economic capital measure.
It expresses the regulatory view of the available capital as a New business sales an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, and a key percentage of the required capital.
indicator of the Groups growth and realisation of its strategic objectives.
New business sales include DB, GIfL, Care, FPP and Protection premiums Trustees individuals with the legal powers to hold, control and written combined with LTM advances in the year.
New business sales are administer the property of a trust such as a pension scheme for the reconciled to IFRS gross premiums in note 2 to the consolidated financial purposes specified in the trust deed.
Pension scheme trustees are obliged statements.
to act in the best interests of the schemes members.
Non-recurring and project expenditure non-recurring and project Underlying operating profit an APM and the sum of the new business expenditure includes any one-off regulatory, project and development operating profit and in-force operating profit.
As this measure excludes costs.
This line item does not include acquisition integration, or acquisition the impact of one-off assumption changes and investment variances, the transaction costs, which are shown as separate line items.
Board considers it to be a key indicator of the progress of the business and a useful measure for investors and analysts when assessing the Groups Operating experience and assumption changes captures the impact of financial performance.
Underlying operating profit is reconciled to IFRS the actual operating experience differing from that assumed at the start profit before tax in the Financial Review.
of the year, plus the impact of changes to future operating assumptions applied during the year.
It also includes the impact of any expense reserve movements, and other sundry operating items.
Other Group companies operating results the results of Group companies including our HUB group of companies, which provides regulated advice and intermediary services, and professional services to corporates, and corporate costs incurred by Group holding companies and the overseas start-ups.
