Financial statements Glossary of terms Active customers those customers that have placed at least one order within the last 12 months.
Adjusted earnings per share profit attributable to the equity shareholders, before share based payment charges, including social security costs, impairment charges, acquisition transaction and integration costs, other gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share of results from associates below uEBITDA, and the tax impact of these adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Admission the admission of the Ordinary shares to the High Growth Segment of the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange which occurred on 8 April 2014.
On 6 May 2014, the Group transitioned to the Premium Listing Segment of the Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
AGM the Annual General Meeting of the Company, which will be held on 1 May 2019 at 9.30am at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
ANZ our operations in Australia and New Zealand.
Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
Average order frequency the average number of orders placed by our customers within the last 12 months.
Average revenue per order ARPO calculated as order-driven revenue divided by the number of orders.
Benelux our former operations in Belgium and the Netherlands sold in August 2016.
BEPS base erosion and profit shifting.
Board the Board of Directors of Just Eat plc.
Cash conversion net cash flow generated from operating activities, excluding those amounts held for Restaurant Partners, as a percentage of uEBITDA.
CMA the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
CODM the chief operating decision maker.
Company Just Eat plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 06947854, whose registered office is at Masters House, 107 Hammersmith Road, London W14 0QH.
Constant currency applying the foreign exchange rates used in the current period to the results of the prior period.
CSOP the Just Eat Company Share Option Plan.
Customer end users of the Just Eat websites and apps, who use them to place orders online.
Directors the Directors of the Company whose names are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
EBITDA earnings before investment revenue and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
EBTs the Employee Benefit Trusts, which are administered by Estera Trust Jersey Limited formerly known as Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, Ocorian Limited, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited and Link Trustees Jersey Limited.
ECAC El Cocinero a Cuerda SL.
EMI Scheme the Just Eat Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme.
Executive Directors Peter Duffy appointed 21 January 2019, Peter Plumb stepped down 21 January 2019 and Paul Harrison.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Glossary of terms continued Executive Team the Executive Directors, Graham Corfield UK Managing Director, Fernando Fanton Chief Product and Technology Officer, Jerome Gavin International Managing Director, Mira Magecha Interim Chief People Officer and James Sporle Group General Counsel.
FCA the Financial Conduct Authority.
Flyt Flyt Limited, acquired on 22 December 2018.
FRC the Financial Reporting Council.
FTSE The Financial Times Stock Exchange Index.
FTSE excluding IT FTSE excluding investment trusts.
Full-time equivalent FTE the number of employees after factoring in reduced hours worked by part time staff.
FVLCD fair value less costs of disposal.
FVTPL fair value through profit or loss.
GAAP generally accepted accounting principles.
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation, as defined by European Union Regulation 2016 679.
Group Just Eat plc and subsidiary undertakings as defined by the Act.
hellofood Brazil Hellofood Intermediacal fide Negocios Ltd, which was acquired in February 2016 and immediately sold to IF-JE, an associated undertaking of the Group.
hellofood Mexico Inversiones Hellofood S. fide R. L. fide C. V. which was acquired in February 2016.
HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
HungryHouse HungryHouse Holdings Limited, acquired on 31 January 2018.
IAS International Accounting Standard s. IF-JE iFood IF-JE Participaes S. A. our Latin American associated undertaking.
IF-JE NL IF-JE Holdings B. V. our associated undertaking that holds a 49% stake in our Mexican business.
This associate is 67% owned by Movile.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s as adopted for use in the European Union.
IPO initial public offering of the Companys Ordinary shares immediately post-admission on 8 April 2014.
Just Connect Terminal JCT mobile network technology provided to Restaurant Partners, which enables them to receive orders from Just Eat.
Just Eat the Group or Just Eat plc and subsidiary undertakings as defined by the Act.
JSOP the Just Eat Joint Share Ownership Plan.
La Nevera Roja Grupo Yamm Comida a Domicilio S. L. which was acquired in April 2017 and subsequently merged with Just Eat Spain SLU.
LATAM the results of associated undertakings and the results of our Mexican subsidiary, which together comprise our Latin America business.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
Marketplace models a two-sided marketplace is the traditional marketplace model, consisting of the customer and the Restaurant Partner, who manages all food-related logistics, with Just Eat managing the payment processing.
Ina three-sided marketplace, a delivery partner is introduced into the above market to manage the delivery of food from the Restaurant Partner to the customer.
Payment by the customer must be made online.
Menulog Menulog Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings, which include our operations in Australia and NewZealand.
154 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Mobile device smartphones, tablets and any other handheld computing device.
Movile Movile Internet Movel S. A. NCI non-controlling interest, being the other shareholder s where we own a controlling shareholding in an entity, but not 100% of the total shareholding.
Non-executive Directors the Non-executive Directors of the Company designated as such on pages 40 and 41.
Used for Customer, Restaurant and Employees NPS is calculated through surveys and is used to gauge the respondents satisfaction with a product or service and the respondents loyalty to a brand.
OECD the Organisation for Economic Co-operation.
Operating profit profits and losses from operations before our share of the results of associates, other gains and losses, investment revenue, finance costs and taxes.
Orderpad internet connected Android tablet provided to Restaurant Partners, which enables them to receive orders and provide order tracking to customers.
Ordinary shares the Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company.
Other gains and losses the profits or losses arising on the disposal and deemed disposal of operations, gains and losses on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and movements on provisions for contingent consideration or obligations to acquire minority interests.
Partner centre the global support portal for Restaurant Partners, featuring restaurant and menu management tools, reviews and ratings, order history and invoicing.
People all 3,600 of our Just Eaters who live and breathe our values of Make Happy, Razor Sharp and Big Hearted.
PizzaBo Webs S. r. l, which was acquired in February 2016 and subsequently merged with Just Eat Italy S. r. l. PSP the Just Eat plc Performance Share Plan.
QSR Quick Service Restaurant chains are restaurants that offer standardised, mostly counter-service hand held food at a mass-market price point.
The ambiance is mostly functional for a high turnover environment fixed seating and table tops, fluorescent lighting and the chains branded graphics.
The segment is dominated by global branded chains e. g. McDonalds, KFC, Subway and Burger King.
RE-DISS Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe.
Restaurant Partner any restaurant or commonly owned group of restaurants signed up to Just Eat, offering either delivery or collection services via the Just Eat websites or apps.
Restaurant Services a programme that provides exclusive deals and discounts on key supplies to Restaurant Partners.
Shareholder a holder, for the time being, of Ordinary shares of the Company.
SinDelantal SinDelantal Mexico S. A. fide C. V. our Mexican subsidiary.
SkipTheDishes SkipTheDishes Restaurant Services Inc. and its subsidiaries.
SIP the Just Eat Share Incentive Plan.
tCO e metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
2 The Act the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
The Code UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
TSR total shareholder return, being the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
uEBITDA the main measure of profitability used to assess the performance of our businesses is underlying EBITDA.
It is defined as earnings before investment revenue and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, and additionally excludes share based payment charges, including social security costs, impairment charges, acquisition transaction and integration costs, foreign exchange gains and losses, other gains and losses, and an adjustment for the element of the share of results from associates falling outside this definition.
VAT UK value added taxation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 155
