Glossary terms are listed in alphabetical order Alternative Performance Measures APMs Effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax expense In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in respect of adopted various Alternative Performance Measures APMs, prior years and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred also termed non-GAAP measures of historical or future financial tax, divided by continuing profit before taxation excluding performance, position or cash flows other than those defined exceptional items.
The exclusion of items relating to prior or specified under International Financial Reporting Standards years and those not in the ordinary course of business helps IFRS.
These measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore provide a better indication of the Groups ongoing rate of tax.
may not be directly comparable with other companies APMs, Areconciliation to the overall tax rate is set out in the Financial including those in the Groups industry.
APMs should be considered Review on page 36. in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, or Exceptional items the principal items which are included are: superior to, IFRS measurements.
Included in the glossary below non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits and are the definitions and references to reconciliations to the IFRS losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint measures of the various APMs used by the Group.
Throughout ventures, associates and investments which do not form part of the glossary, alternative performance measures are denoted by the Groups trading activities: profits and losses on the disposal the symbol.
of properties and impairment losses on non-operational assets: Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, FFVR, and the costs of significant restructuring, including certain amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax items and tax restructuring costs of the Groups five-year transformation plan on prior year items including the impact of rate changes on launched in 2016 17, and incremental acquisition integration costs.
FFVR financing fair value remeasurements represents fair value fluctuations from financial instruments.
Adjusted pre-tax profit is used to report the performance of the business at a Group level including both the benefits of our France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dpt France.
transformation programme and the associated costs.
This is stated Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations before exceptional items and FFVR.
The exclusion of exceptional excluding exceptional items less the amount spent on interest, items and FFVR helps provide an indication of the Groups tax and capital expenditure during the year excluding business ongoing business performance.
A reconciliation to statutory acquisitions and disposals and asset disposals.
This provides pre-tax profit is set out in the Financial Review on page 33. a measure of how much cash the business generates that can Banque fide France data includes relocated and extended stores.
be used for expansion, capital returns and other purposes.
do?node 5384326 Areconciliation from operating profit is set out in the Constant currency changes in total sales, LFL sales and retail Financial Review on page 37. profit reflect the year on year movements after translating the GNFR Goods Not For Resale covers the procurement of all prior year comparatives at the current years average exchange goods and services a retailer consumes including media buying, rates.
These are presented to eliminate the effects of exchange mechanical handling equipment, printing & paper.
rate fluctuation on the reported results.
Lease adjusted ROCE Post-tax retail profit less central CPR cost price reduction refers to the savings made on cost costs and transformation costs, excluding exceptional items of goods sold.
and property lease costs, divided by lease adjusted capital employed excluding historic goodwill, net cash and exceptional Digital sales are sales derived from online transactions, including restructuring provision.
The measure provides an indication of click & collect.
This includes sales transacted on any device, the ongoing returns from the capital invested in the business however not sales through a call centre.
Capital employed is adjusted to EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and include capitalised property leases.
Kingfisher believes 8x amortisation is calculated as retail profit less central and property operating lease rent is a reasonable industry standard transformation P&L costs and before depreciation for estimating the economic value of its leased assets.
employed except for capitalised leases, is calculated as a two EBITDAR earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, point average.
The calculation excludes disposed businesses amortisation and property operating lease rentals is calculated e. g. China.
as retail profit less central and transformation P&L costs, LFL stands for like-for-like sales growth representing the before depreciation and amortisation and property operating constant currency, year on year sales growth for stores that lease rentals.
This measure is used in calculating the ratio of have been open for more than a year.
This measure is used lease adjusted net debt to EBITDAR, to reflect the Groups widely in the retail industry as an indicator of sales performance leverage including capitalised leases which in accordance with on a comparable basis.
current accounting standards do not appear on the balance sheet.
A reconciliation from retail profit is set out in the Financial Review on page 38. www.
com 171 Glossary continued Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short Unique ranges relate to the development of our own product termdeposits, less borrowings and financing derivatives ranges that excite customers.
These ranges are not available excluding accrued interest.
A reconciliation to balance elsewhere and are always sold under our own exclusive brands.
sheetamounts isprovided in note 31 of the consolidated Instead of buying products off the shelf from suppliers, we financialstatements.
are designing the ranges ourselves based on our deep customer insights.
New Country Development consists of Screwfix Europe, Portugal and Romania.
UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix UK.
Other International consists of Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Screwfix Europe, Spain and Turkey Kota JV.
Retail profit is stated before central costs, transformation costs, exceptional items and the Groups share of interest and tax of JVs and associates.
This is the Groups operating profit measure used to report the underlying performance of our retail businesses including the sustainable benefits of our transformation plan.
A reconciliation to operating profit is provided in note 4 of the consolidated financial statements.
Sales refer to Group sales excluding Joint Venture Kota JV sales.
SKU Stock Keeping Unit is defined as the number of individual variants of products sold or remaining in stock.
It is a distinct type of item for sale, such as a product and all attributes associated with the item type that distinguish it from others.
These attributes could include, but are not limited to, manufacturer, description, material, size, colour, packaging and warranty terms.
Transformation costs represent the additional costs of the ONE Kingfisher transformation programme launched in 2016 17.
They comprise transformation exceptional costs, transformation P&L costs i. e. non-exceptional items and transformation capex capital expenditure.
Transformation P&L costs represent the additional costs that arise only as a result of the transformation plan launched in 2016 17.
These costs principally relate to the unified and unique offer range implementation and the digital strategic initiative.
Underlying pre-tax profit is stated before transformation P&L costs, exceptional items and FFVR.
The exclusion of transformation P&L costs in addition to exceptional items and FFVR helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance, which includes the sustainable benefits of the transformation plan.
A reconciliation to statutory pre-tax profit is set out in the Financial Review on page 33.
Unifying ranges means rationalising the number of global SKUs and suppliers whilst improving the quality and functionality for our customers and leveraging our scale.
This generates cost price reduction and better prices for customers.
Products are unified across the whole range: from selling the same product in all our markets to having some customer driven market adaptions where needed.
Unified extends to our own exclusive brands alongside international and national brands.
172 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 IMAGE REMOVED Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Kingfisher plc 2017 18 annual report & accounts IMAGE REMOVED Kingfisher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
com IMAGE IMAGE IMAGE IMAGE IMAGE REMOVED REMOVED REMOVED REMOVED REMOVED
