Consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 31 January 2018 millions Notes 2017 18 2016 17 Operating activities Cash generated by operations 30 475 925 Income tax paid 182 144 Net cash flows from operating activities 293 781 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4 368 406 Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 32 12 Disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 6 20 Disposal of B&Q China 33 63 Decrease in short-term deposits 70 Interest received 11 5 Net cash flows used in investing activities 363 248 Financing activities Interest paid 10 10 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 2 Repayment of bank loans 7 2 Repayment of fixed term debt 47 Receipt on financing derivatives 10 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 11 12 New shares issued under share schemes 8 3 Own shares issued under share schemes 1 Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust 13 6 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 260 200 Ordinary dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company 231 230 Net cash flows from financing activities 526 495 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 596 38 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 795 654 Exchange differences 31 103 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 19 230 795 114 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 114 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 January 2018 millions Notes 2017 18 2016 17 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial 1 General information Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is Operating activities Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January Cash generated by operations 30 475 925 and associates together the Group supply home improvement 2018 and changes some requirements for the measurement and Income tax paid 182 144 products and services through a network of retail stores and other classification of financial instruments, impairment of financial channels, located mainly in the United Kingdom and continental Net cash flows from operating activities 293 781 assets and certain elements of hedge accounting.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal introduces a new impairment model based on expected credit activities is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 48.
Hedge accounting requirements are designed to allow The Company is incorporated in England, United Kingdom, and is hedge accounting to be more closely aligned with an entitys Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4 368 406 listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of its registered risk management strategy.
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 32 12 office is 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX.
A full list of Kingfisher will adopt IFRS 9 on 1 February 2018 and apply the Disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 6 20 related undertakings of the Company and their registered offices is standard prospectively with no retrospective adjustments Disposal of B&Q China 33 63 given in note 16 of the Companys separate financial statements.
A detailed assessment of the new standard has been Decrease in short-term deposits 70 These consolidated financial statements have been approved undertaken and concluded that there are no material impacts on Interest received 11 5 for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2018. the consolidated financial statements, except for additional Net cash flows used in investing activities 363 248 disclosure requirements relating to hedge accounting.
The new disclosures include a requirement for a much more detailed 2 Principal accounting policies qualitative description of the entitys risk management strategy.
Financing activities The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of Interest paid 10 10 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers supersedes these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These IAS 18 Revenue and establishes a principles-based approach to Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 2 policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, revenue recognition and measurement based on the concept of unless otherwise stated.
Repayment of bank loans 7 2 recognising revenue when performance obligations are satisfied.
Repayment of fixed term debt 47 As described in note 2 d below, the majority of the Groups revenue a.
Basis of preparation Receipt on financing derivatives 10 is recognised at the point of sale, therefore the new standard will not The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its Capital element of finance lease rental payments 11 12 have a material effect on the financial statements or the amount, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to New shares issued under share schemes 8 3 timing or nature of revenue recognised by the Group.
31 January, except as disclosed in note 16 of the consolidated Own shares issued under share schemes 1 financial statements and in note 4 of the Companys separate IFRS 16 Leases supersedes IAS 17 Leases and has been endorsed Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust 13 6 financial statements.
The current financial year is the calendar year by the European Union.
The most significant changes are in relation ended 31 January 2018 the year or 2017 18.
The comparative to lessee accounting.
Under IFRS 16 the lessee will recognise Purchase of own shares for cancellation 260 200 financial year is the calendar year ended 31 January 2017 the prior a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases currently Ordinary dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company 231 230 year or 2016 17.
The consolidated income statement and related accounted for as operating leases, with the exception of leases Net cash flows from financing activities 526 495 notes represent results for continuing operations, there being no for a short period less than 12 months and those for items of low discontinued operations in the years presented.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of the lease, Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 596 38 whilst interest will be charged on the liability over the same period.
The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate enquiries, Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 795 654 The Group anticipates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will have a consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in significant impact on the primary financial statements, including Exchange differences 31 103 operational existence and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt an impact on the operating profit, profit before tax, total assets Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 19 230 795 the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial and total liabilities lines.
statements for the year ended 31 January 2018.
Refer to the Strategic Report on page 48.
The project is being led by Group Finance and has a steering committee in place to provide appropriate oversight and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in governance.
The IFRS 16 implementation project continues to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as collect required lease information and progress work on policies, adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the processes and systems to support the transition.
The impact of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under standard on the Group is currently being assessed and therefore IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply it is not yet practicable to provide a full estimate of its effect.
The with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease commitments The following new amendment, which is mandatory for the first at 31 January 2018 disclosed under IAS 17, the current leasing time for the financial year ended 31 January 2018, is relevant for standard, was 3.4 billion see note 34. the Group: Other new standards and interpretations which are in issue but not Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows effective yet effective are not expected to have a material impact on the from the Groups 2017 18 financial year.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under following new standards and interpretations, which have not the historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not for certain financial instruments, share-based payments and yet effective: post-employment benefits.
A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies is set out below.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from the Groups 2018 19 financial year : IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective from the Groups 2018 19 financial year : and IFRS 16, Leases effective from the Groups 2019 20 financial year.
114 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The term underlying refers to the relevant adjusted measure 2 Principal accounting policies continued being reported before non-exceptional transformation costs.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS Non-exceptional transformation costs represent the additional requires the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
costs that arise only as a result of the transformation plan launched It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the in 2016 17, which either because of their nature or the length of process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas the period over which they are incurred are not considered as involving critical accounting estimates and judgements, which are exceptional items.
These costs principally relate to the unified significant to the consolidated financial statements, are outlined and unique offer range implementation and the digital strategic in note 3. initiative.
The separate reporting of such costs in addition to exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups Use of non-GAAP measures underlying business performance, which includes the sustainable In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain benefits of the transformation plan.
measures that are not required under IFRS, the generally accepted accounting principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
The effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax Kingfisher believes that retail profit, underlying pre-tax profit, expense excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in respect of prior years and the impact of changes in tax rates on adjusted pre-tax profit, effective tax rate, underlying earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful deferred tax, divided by continuing profit before taxation excluding information on performance and trends to shareholders.
The exclusion of items relating to prior years, and those not in the ordinary course of business, helps provide a better and other non-GAAP measures also known as Alternative Performance Measures, such as net cash, are used by Kingfisher indication of the Groups ongoing rate of tax.
for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short-term arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, exceptional deposits less borrowings and financing derivatives excluding items, transformation costs, underlying, adjusted, effective tax accrued interest.
It excludes balances classified as assets and rate and net cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may liabilities held for sale.
therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a b.
Basis of consolidation substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before central statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures costs, the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and and associates.
associates, transformation costs and exceptional items.
It includes the sustainable benefits of the transformation plan.
Central costs i Subsidiaries principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office before Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over transformation costs.
which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those as exceptional within their relevant income statement category, returns through its power over the entity.
helps provide an indication of the Groups ongoing business performance.
The principal items which are included as exceptional Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition items are: method of accounting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries which have been disposed non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits are included up to the effective date of disposal.
and losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and investments which do not form The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary part of the Groups trading activities: is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration profits and losses on the disposal of properties and impairment transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting losses on non-operational assets: and from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related the costs of significant restructuring, including certain costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired restructuring costs of the Groups five year transformation plan and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business launched in 2016 17, and incremental acquisition integration costs.
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share fair value remeasurements, related tax items and prior year tax of the acquirees net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying items including the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests tax.
Financing fair value remeasurements represent changes in at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the borrowings and other hedged items under fair value hedge non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Financing derivatives are those that relate to hedged items of a financing nature.
116 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 116 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The term underlying refers to the relevant adjusted measure The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any ii Transactions and balances 2 Principal accounting policies continued being reported before non-exceptional transformation costs.
non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition-date Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS Non-exceptional transformation costs represent the additional fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date requires the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
costs that arise only as a result of the transformation plan launched fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as of the transaction or, for practical reasons, at average monthly It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the in 2016 17, which either because of their nature or the length of goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the rates where exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas the period over which they are incurred are not considered as subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies involving critical accounting estimates and judgements, which are exceptional items.
These costs principally relate to the unified difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
significant to the consolidated financial statements, are outlined are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance and unique offer range implementation and the digital strategic in note 3.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to initiative.
The separate reporting of such costs in addition to transactions between Group companies are eliminated on the income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups Use of non-GAAP measures consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation or are underlying business performance, which includes the sustainable transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset designated and effective net investment or cash flow hedges.
Such In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain benefits of the transformation plan.
Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have exchange differences are initially deferred in equity.
The effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the Kingfisher believes that retail profit, underlying pre-tax profit, expense excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in policies adopted by the Group.
iii Group companies respect of prior years and the impact of changes in tax rates on The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in adjusted pre-tax profit, effective tax rate, underlying earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful deferred tax, divided by continuing profit before taxation excluding ii Joint ventures and associates Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Profits information on performance and trends to shareholders.
The exclusion of items relating to prior years, and Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
and losses of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in Sterling at those not in the ordinary course of business, helps provide a better Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences and other non-GAAP measures also known as Alternative Performance Measures, such as net cash, are used by Kingfisher indication of the Groups ongoing rate of tax.
arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant arising on the retranslation of foreign operations, including joint for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing ventures and associates, are recognised in a separate component Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short-term control.
The equity method is used to account for the Groups of equity.
The terms retail profit, exceptional deposits less borrowings and financing derivatives excluding items, transformation costs, underlying, adjusted, effective tax investments in joint ventures.
It excludes balances classified as assets and On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the rate and net cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may liabilities held for sale.
Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures to exercise significant influence but not control, generally borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of of such investments, are taken to equity.
The equity method is used to account for is sold, such exchange differences recorded since 1 February 2004 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before central the Groups investments in associates.
being the date of transition to IFRS are recognised in the income statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures costs, the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Under the equity method, investments are initially recognised at associates, transformation costs and exceptional items.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of the sustainable benefits of the transformation plan.
Central costs i Subsidiaries recognised in the income statement within operating profit, and its a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office before Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet transformation costs.
The Group controls an entity when income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 February 2004 is denominated in the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the Sterling, and not subsequently retranslated.
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those as exceptional within their relevant income statement category, carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of returns through its power over the entity.
helps provide an indication of the Groups ongoing business losses equals or exceeds its interest, including any other long-term iv Principal rates of exchange against Sterling performance.
The principal items which are included as exceptional receivables, the Group does not recognise any further losses, Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition 2017 18 2016 17 items are: unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf Average Year end Average Year end method of accounting and their results included from the date of rate rate rate rate of the joint venture or associate.
The results of subsidiaries which have been disposed non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits Euro 1.14 1.14 1.21 1.16 are included up to the effective date of disposal.
and losses on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its US Dollar 1.30 1.42 1.34 1.26 joint ventures, associates and investments which do not form joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary part of the Groups trading activities: the Groups interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless Polish Zloty 4.83 4.75 5.28 5.03 is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration Russian Rouble 75.53 79.74 87.98 75.72 profits and losses on the disposal of properties and impairment transferred.
Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting losses on non-operational assets: and have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related d. Revenue recognition the policies adopted by the Group.
the costs of significant restructuring, including certain costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and restructuring costs of the Groups five year transformation plan and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date services.
Sales exclude transactions made between companies launched in 2016 17, and incremental acquisition integration costs.
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the an investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is the within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group date on which the Group ceases to have joint control or significant and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at influence over the investee or on the date it is classified as held for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing Revenue relating to sales of in-store products is generally fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share for sale.
fair value remeasurements, related tax items and prior year tax recognised at the point of cash receipt.
Where customers have a of the acquirees net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying items including the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred right to return purchased goods in exchange for a refund, a liability amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests tax.
Financing fair value remeasurements represent changes in c. Foreign currencies for returns is recognised based on historic trends and offset at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, i Presentation and functional currencies against revenue in the period in which the sale was made.
Total comprehensive income is offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are borrowings and other hedged items under fair value hedge which is the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount allocated relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that relate to financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured to the credits is deferred and recognised when the credits are hedged items of a financing nature.
using the currency of the primary economic environment in which redeemed and the Group fulfils its obligations to supply the awards.
the entity operates i. e. its functional currency.
116 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Computer software 2 Principal accounting policies continued Where software is not an integral part of a related item of computer For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset.
when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, when the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or products and services represent only a small component of production of identifiable software products controlled by the Group, which are expected to generate economic benefits the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases of products.
exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised costs include those of software licences and Other income is primarily comprised of external rental income and development, including costs of employees, consultants and an gains or losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income from operating appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or maintaining arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over Software under development is held at cost less any provisions the lease term.
for impairment, with impairment reviews being performed annually.
Amortisation commences when the software assets are available e. Rebates for use and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related rebates on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume h. Property, plant and equipment related rebates are accrued as units are purchased based on the percentage rebate applicable to forecast total purchases over the i Cost rebate period, where it is probable the rebates will be received and Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are the amounts can be estimated reliably.
Discretionary rebates are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions not anticipated and only recognised once earned.
to inventories purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deducted from the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to transition date to IFRS.
All property acquired after 1 February 2004 the Cost of sales line in the income statement when the goods is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
ii Depreciation Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from and marketing, are credited to the Cost of sales in the income cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the statement when the relevant conditions have been fulfilled.
asset as follows: f. Dividends Freehold land not depreciated Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised when Short leasehold land and over remaining period they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
buildings of the lease Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years g. Intangible assets Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years i Goodwill Motor cars 4 years Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognised.
Such benefits include future Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms synergies expected from the combination and intangible assets of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.
at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment at iii Impairment country level, representing the lowest level at which it is monitored At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether for internal management purposes, by assessing the recoverable there are any indicators that property, plant and equipment, amount of each cash generating unit or groups of cash generating including the Groups stores, may be impaired and, should such units to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is indicators exist, the assets recoverable amounts are subsequently assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future estimated.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows valuehigher.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value less costs weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of to sell if higher.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to adjustments are made for each country in which the GCU operates.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than its weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium the income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
adjustments are made for each country.
Any impairment in value is Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying charged to the income statement in the period in which it occurs.
amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
118 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 118 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Computer software iv Disposal l. Inventories 2 Principal accounting policies continued Where software is not an integral part of a related item of computer The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset.
is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and on a weighted average cost basis.
when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income when the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in determining statement.
Sales of land and buildings are accounted for when products and services represent only a small component of production of identifiable software products controlled by the cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes appropriate there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
the Group, which are expected to generate economic benefits the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases attributable overheads and direct expenditure incurred in the of products.
exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible normal course of business in bringing goods to their present v Subsequent costs assets.
Capitalised costs include those of software licences and location and condition.
Costs of inventories include the transfer Other income is primarily comprised of external rental income and Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying development, including costs of employees, consultants and an from other comprehensive income of any gains or losses on gains or losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income from operating amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or maintaining the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount computer software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over to make the sale.
Write downs to net realisable value are made for Software under development is held at cost less any provisions All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income the lease term.
slow moving, display, damaged or obsolete items and other events for impairment, with impairment reviews being performed annually.
statement in the period in which they are incurred.
or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being lower than Amortisation commences when the software assets are available e. Rebates cost.
The carrying value of inventories reflects known and i.
Leased assets for use and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related expected losses of product in the ordinary course of business.
Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights rebates on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had h. Property, plant and equipment related rebates are accrued as units are purchased based on the m. Employee benefits been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the percentage rebate applicable to forecast total purchases over the i Cost fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum i Post-employment benefits rebate period, where it is probable the rebates will be received and Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The Group operates various defined benefit and defined the amounts can be estimated reliably.
Discretionary rebates are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or contribution pension schemes for its employees, some of which are not anticipated and only recognised once earned.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance required by local legislation.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension to inventories purchased but still held at the balance sheet date are charges in respect of future periods, are included, as appropriate, Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit which an deducted from the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is under borrowings due within or after one year.
The finance charge deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as at the employee will receive on retirement.
A defined contribution recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to element of rentals is charged to finance costs in the income transition date to IFRS.
All property acquired after 1 February 2004 scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group usually pays the Cost of sales line in the income statement when the goods statement over the lease term.
is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
fixed contributions into a separate entity.
In all cases other than are sold.
some of the legally required schemes, a separate fund is being All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are ii Depreciation Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising accumulated to meet the accruing liabilities.
The assets of each of generally charged to the income statement in the period to which Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from and marketing, are credited to the Cost of sales in the income these funds are either held under trusts or managed by insurance the payments relate, except for those leases which incorporate cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the statement when the relevant conditions have been fulfilled.
companies and are entirely separate from the Groups assets.
fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which contain fixed asset as follows: minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income statement on The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect f. Dividends Freehold land not depreciated a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised when the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated Short leasehold land and over remaining period buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a finance lease they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit buildings of the lease if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the land element will in method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years most cases be classified as an operating lease.
If the contracted g. Intangible assets determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows lease payments are not split between land and buildings in the Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which are i Goodwill lease contract, the split is made based on the market values Motor cars 4 years denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from of the land and buildings at the inception of the lease.
Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years and which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are of the related pension liability.
Such benefits include future Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over synergies expected from the combination and intangible assets Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed the lease term.
not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged at each balance sheet date.
to the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
Investment property Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment at iii Impairment For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental country level, representing the lowest level at which it is monitored At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The income or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are for internal management purposes, by assessing the recoverable there are any indicators that property, plant and equipment, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense carried at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment.
amount of each cash generating unit or groups of cash generating including the Groups stores, may be impaired and, should such when they are due.
Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis with that applied units to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is indicators exist, the assets recoverable amounts are subsequently to property, plant and equipment.
assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future estimated.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to ii Share-based compensation pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows valueThe Group operates several equity-settled, share-based k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs higher.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value less costs compensation schemes.
The fair value of the employee services Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of to sell if higher.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession received in exchange for the grant of options or deferred shares held as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work starts capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to is recognised as an expense and is calculated using Black-Scholes on the property to the date when substantially all the activities adjustments are made for each country in which the GCU operates.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups and stochastic models.
The total amount to be expensed over the which are necessary to get the property ready for use are When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than its weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the complete.
Where construction is completed in parts, each part carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium options or deferred shares granted, excluding the impact of any is considered separately when capitalising interest.
Interest is the income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
Any impairment in value is non-market vesting conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying charged to the income statement in the period in which it occurs.
to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting due to nonamount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
118 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against 2 Principal accounting policies continued each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same n. Taxation tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The tax currently payable is based on Operating levies, such as certain revenue, property and payrolltaxable profit for the year.
based taxes, are not treated as income tax and are included within The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and operating profit.
The timing of recognition of a liability to pay an there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination operating levy is determined by the event identified under the is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
For uncertain tax relevant legislation that triggers the obligation to pay the levy.
positions, on the basis that tax authorities have full knowledge of the relevant information it is determined whether it is probable that, in o.
Provisions and contingent liabilities aggregate, an outflow of economic resources will occur following Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal investigation.
The potential impact of the relevant tax authoritys or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely examination of the uncertain tax positions is measured to make the than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the best estimate of the amount of the tax benefit that may be lost, for obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions which provisions are then recorded.
Where the final outcome of are not recognised for future operating losses.
these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a preThese adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the tax rate which reflects current market assessments of the time income statement, or directly in equity, as appropriate.
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Credits or charges arising from changes in the rate used Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the to discount the provisions are recognised within net finance costs.
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or which are never Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past taxable or deductible.
events, whose existence will only be confirmed by future uncertain events that are not wholly within the Groups control, or present Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on obligations where it is not probable that an outflow of resources differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used measured.
If the outflow of economic resources is not considered in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the remote, contingent liabilities are disclosed but not recognised in balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to p. Financial instruments the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax assets and the financial asset expire or the Group has substantially transferred liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities or a part of a from the initial recognition other than in a business combination financial liability are derecognised when the obligation specified in of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
i Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow original maturities of three months or less.
all or part of the asset to be recovered.
ii Borrowings Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured at and are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled amortised cost.
Where borrowings are in designated and effective or the asset is realised.
fair value hedge relationships, adjustments are made to their Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income carrying amounts to reflect the hedged risks.
Finance charges, statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and to other comprehensive income, in which case the current or direct issue costs, are amortised to the income statement using deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
120 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 120 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 iii Other investments including short-term deposits Net investment hedges Other investments may include equity investments where the Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations Group does not have control, joint control or significant influence through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on in the investee, short-term deposits with banks and other the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other investments with original maturities of more than three months.
If the Group uses derivatives as the Any dividends received are recognised in the income statement.
hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised Investments classified as available-for-sale financial assets under in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion being IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses initially measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled through value recorded directly in equity.
On disposal, the accumulated the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
fair value adjustments recognised in equity are transferred to the In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents in income statement.
advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group also documents and demonstrates iv Trade receivables an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing bad and doubtful debts.
is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
v Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument subsequently measured at amortised cost.
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on vi Derivatives and hedge accounting the hedging instrument is retained in other comprehensive income Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Changes in the or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating items Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host and financing items are recognised in operating profit and net contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and finance costs respectively.
characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently carried gains or losses reported in the income statement.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments classified as hedges depends on their q.
Assets and liabilities held for sale designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held The Group designates certain financial instruments as: for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or unrecognised is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the firm commitment fair value hedge : asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or firm condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for commitment cash flow hedge : or sales of such assets.
a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Management must be committed to the sale, which should be net investment hedge.
expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
Fair value hedges Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the costs to sell.
This excludes financial assets, deferred tax assets risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded and assets arising from employee benefits, which are measured in the income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the according to the relevant accounting policy.
corresponding hedging instrument are recognised in the same Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not line of the income statement.
depreciated once classified as held for sale.
The Group ceases to use the equity method of accounting from the date on which an Cash flow hedges interest in a joint venture or an interest in an associate becomes Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that classified as held for sale.
are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued other comprehensive income as appropriate, and are disclosed 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in the notes to the accounts.
Refer to notes 9, 24 and 35 for The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS further information.
requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and During the year, judgements have been required around the judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical likelihood of future tax liabilities arising for a dispute with the French tax authority regarding the treatment of interest paid, and for the experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
European Commissions state aid investigation, for which further Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The significant details are given in note 35. judgements applied in the preparation of the financial statements, along with estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk Restructuring and onerous lease provisions of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant part and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and property contracts.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on Sources of estimation uncertainty exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and Inventories subletting surplus space.
Significant assumptions are used in As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable making these calculations, in particular the nature, timing and value value, this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of of mitigating the lease costs, including void periods and level of goods to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement sublease income, and changes in these assumptions and future is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
Refer inventories of factors such as stock turn, range or delisted status, to note 25 for further information.
shrinkage, damage, obsolescence and range review activity.
The During the prior year, the Group entered into a lease liability quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly measured transaction with a third party to dispose of a number of UK leases and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts following the closure of these stores.
The residual lease liability for undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.
Refer these properties remains with the Group, and therefore the related to note 17 for further information.
onerous lease provisions continue to be recorded.
During the year, the Group has continued to unify its product The continued progress made with the lease liability transaction offer, requiring judgements over the net realisable value of certain during the year has contributed to a reduction in the level of overall ranges being removed from the business.
Furthermore, the level of provisions held, however the remaining balance remains significant.
inventory held at the year end has increased in comparison with the prior year, which has required additional assessment of those items Post-employment benefits that will become obsolete and the expected net realisable value of The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised those items that will be sold.
on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of market rates and assumptions including interest rates of high quality corporate Rebates bonds, inflation and mortality rates.
The net interest expense or Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of the income is dependent on the interest rates of high quality corporate Groups rebates.
Where the percentage rate of such rebates bonds and the net deficit or surplus position.
The market rates and depends on the volumes purchased, forecasts are required, assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes particularly at interim periods, of full usually calendar year in these can lead to significant movements in the estimated purchases.
Forecasts are informed by historical trading patterns, obligations.
To help the reader understand the impact of changes current performance and trends.
However, this judgement is in the key market rates and assumptions, a sensitivity analysis is reduced significantly for full year reporting, due to the Groups provided in note 26.
January financial year end, limited principally to recognition of rebates earned in the month of January.
Judgements made in applying accounting policies Judgement is required over the recoverability of receivables relating to rebates.
The amount of rebates due from suppliers at Exceptional items and transformation costs the balance sheet date is disclosed in note 18.
The Group separately reports exceptional items and transformation costs in order to calculate adjusted and underlying Income taxes results, as it believes these measures provide additional useful The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions information on underlying performance and trends to shareholders.
in which it operates and there are many transactions for which Judgement is required in determining whether an item should be the ultimate tax determination is open to differing interpretations classified as a non-exceptional transformation cost, exceptional during the ordinary course of business.
Significant judgement may item or included within underlying results.
therefore be required in determining the provision for income taxes The Groups definitions of exceptional items and transformation in each of these territories.
Where it is anticipated that additional costs are outlined in note 2 a and have been applied consistently taxes are probable, the Group recognises liabilities for the estimate year on year.
Refer to notes 4, 5 and 37 for further information on of any potential exposure.
These estimates are continually transformation costs and exceptional items recorded in the year reassessed, and where the final outcome of these matters is and after the balance sheet date.
As noted on page 67 this is a key different from the initially recorded amount, such differences will area of focus for the Audit Committee where there has been impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in challenge across the year.
which such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the income statement, or directly in 122 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 122 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued other comprehensive income as appropriate, and are disclosed 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 4 Segmental analysis in the notes to the accounts.
Refer to notes 9, 24 and 35 for The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS Income statement further information.
requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect 2017 18 the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and During the year, judgements have been required around the Other International judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical likelihood of future tax liabilities arising for a dispute with the French millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total tax authority regarding the treatment of interest paid, and for the experience and other factors including expectations of future Sales 5,003 4,387 1,384 881 11,655 events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
European Commissions state aid investigation, for which further Retail profit 375 320 170 16 849 Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The significant details are given in note 35.
Central costs 46 judgements applied in the preparation of the financial statements, Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 4 along with estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk Restructuring and onerous lease provisions Transformation costs before exceptional items 114 of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and ongoing restructuring programmes.
Operating profit 685 of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and property contracts.
Net finance costs 3 The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on Sources of estimation uncertainty Profit before taxation 682 exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and Inventories subletting surplus space.
Significant assumptions are used in As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable making these calculations, in particular the nature, timing and value 2016 17 value, this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of of mitigating the lease costs, including void periods and level of Other International goods to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total sublease income, and changes in these assumptions and future is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
Refer Sales 4,979 4,254 1,191 801 11,225 inventories of factors such as stock turn, range or delisted status, to note 25 for further information.
Retail profit 358 353 144 8 847 shrinkage, damage, obsolescence and range review activity.
The During the prior year, the Group entered into a lease liability Central costs 48 quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly measured transaction with a third party to dispose of a number of UK leases and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 5 following the closure of these stores.
Refer Transformation costs before exceptional items 44 these properties remains with the Group, and therefore the related to note 17 for further information.
Exceptional items 23 onerous lease provisions continue to be recorded.
During the year, the Group has continued to unify its product Operating profit 773 The continued progress made with the lease liability transaction offer, requiring judgements over the net realisable value of certain Net finance costs 14 during the year has contributed to a reduction in the level of overall ranges being removed from the business.
Furthermore, the level of Profit before taxation 759 provisions held, however the remaining balance remains significant.
inventory held at the year end has increased in comparison with the prior year, which has required additional assessment of those items Post-employment benefits Balance sheet that will become obsolete and the expected net realisable value of The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised 2017 18 those items that will be sold.
on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of market rates Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total and assumptions including interest rates of high quality corporate Rebates bonds, inflation and mortality rates.
The net interest expense or Segment assets 1,589 1,643 685 477 4,394 Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of the income is dependent on the interest rates of high quality corporate Groups rebates.
Where the percentage rate of such rebates Central liabilities 151 bonds and the net deficit or surplus position.
The market rates and depends on the volumes purchased, forecasts are required, Goodwill 2,437 assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes particularly at interim periods, of full usually calendar year Net cash 68 in these can lead to significant movements in the estimated purchases.
Forecasts are informed by historical trading patterns, Net assets 6,748 obligations.
January financial year end, limited principally to recognition of 2016 17 rebates earned in the month of January.
Other International Judgements made in applying accounting policies millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Judgement is required over the recoverability of receivables Segment assets 1,416 1,410 606 454 3,886 relating to rebates.
The Group separately reports exceptional items and Central liabilities 155 transformation costs in order to calculate adjusted and underlying Goodwill 2,399 Income taxes results, as it believes these measures provide additional useful Net cash 641 The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions information on underlying performance and trends to shareholders.
Net assets 6,771 in which it operates and there are many transactions for which Judgement is required in determining whether an item should be the ultimate tax determination is open to differing interpretations classified as a non-exceptional transformation cost, exceptional during the ordinary course of business.
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the income statement, or directly in 122 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2017 18 Other International UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 141 79 63 62 23 368 Depreciation and amortisation 122 84 22 20 6 254 Net impairment losses gains 1 1 1 1 1 Non-current assets 3,326 2,105 678 435 29 6,573 2016 17 Other International UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 215 95 45 34 17 406 Depreciation and amortisation 132 80 20 19 2 253 Impairment losses 3 6 2 3 14 1 Non-current assets 3,307 2,063 599 350 24 6,343 1.
Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and investments in joint ventures and associates.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive, representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Romania and the joint venture Kota in Turkey.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office before transformation costs.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, insurance, interest and tax.
Transformation costs before exceptional items principally relate to the unified and unique offer range implementation and the digital strategic pillar, with 42m 2016 17: 19m included within selling and distribution expenses and 72m 2016 17: 25m included within administrative expenses.
5 Exceptional items millions 2017 18 2016 17 Included within selling and distribution expenses UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 12 21 Brico Dpt Romania impairment reversal 2 14 21 Included within administrative expenses Transformation exceptional costs 15 5 15 5 Included within other income Profit on disposal of properties 1 4 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 1 7 Included within net finance costs UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 6 6 Exceptional items before tax 17 Tax on exceptional items 6 Exceptional items 11 Current year exceptional items include a 12m credit principally arising due to savings on B&Q store exit costs as compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised.
In the prior year, a net credit of 21m was recognised relating principally to savings on B&Q store exit costs, offset by store asset impairments relating to the closure of loss-making stores in continental Europe.
In addition, a 6m exceptional interest charge relating to the reduction in discount rate used to measure the overall UK restructuring provision was recognised.
124 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 124 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued A 2m impairment reversal has been recognised in the current year relating to the reversal of store impairments previously charged 4 Segmental analysis continued to exceptional items in 2015 16 in the Brico Dpt Romania business, as a result of a sustained improvement in the performance of Other segmental information those stores.
2017 18 Transformation exceptional costs of 15m have been recorded in the year driven by people changes associated with restructuring in the Other International UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total UK and other costs relating to the Groups five year transformation plan.
These include the move of transactional processing activity from the UK to a shared service centre in Poland.
Capital expenditure 141 79 63 62 23 368 Depreciation and amortisation 122 84 22 20 6 254 In the prior year, a profit of 3m was recognised on disposal of the Groups remaining 30% stake in B&Q China.
Net impairment losses gains 1 1 1 1 1 Non-current assets 3,326 2,105 678 435 29 6,573 6 Net finance costs millions 2017 18 2016 17 2016 17 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 10 10 Other International Fixed term debt 2 2 UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Finance leases 2 2 Capital expenditure 215 95 45 34 17 406 Financing fair value remeasurements 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation 132 80 20 19 2 253 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1 7 Impairment losses 3 6 2 3 14 Capitalised interest 2 1 Non-current assets 3,307 2,063 599 350 24 6,343 Other interest payable 5 5 1.
Finance costs 19 27 The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive, Cash and cash equivalents and short term deposits 8 6 representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates.
Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 5 7 Other interest income 3 The Other International segment consists of Poland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Romania and the joint venture Kota in Turkey.
Finance income 16 13 Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office before transformation costs.
Central liabilities comprise Net finance costs 3 14 unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, insurance, interest and tax.
Transformation costs before exceptional items principally relate to the unified and unique offer range implementation and the digital Fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 8m 2016 17: 8m income and amortisation of issue costs strategic pillar, with 42m 2016 17: 19m included within selling and distribution expenses and 72m 2016 17: 25m included within of borrowings of 1m 2016 17: nil.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net loss on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 30m 2016 17: 10m loss, offset by a net gain from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 29m 2016 17: 9m gain.
5 Exceptional items In the prior year, the 7m charge relating to the unwinding of discount on provisions included a 6m exceptional finance charge relating millions 2017 18 2016 17 to the reduction in discount rate used to measure the overall UK restructuring provision.
Included within selling and distribution expenses UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 12 21 Brico Dpt Romania impairment reversal 2 14 21 Included within administrative expenses Transformation exceptional costs 15 5 15 5 Included within other income Profit on disposal of properties 1 4 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 1 7 Included within net finance costs UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 6 6 Exceptional items before tax 17 Tax on exceptional items 6 Exceptional items 11 Current year exceptional items include a 12m credit principally arising due to savings on B&Q store exit costs as compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised.
124 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before taxation The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Sales 11,655 11,225 Other income 25 26 Finance income 16 13 Revenue 11,696 11,264 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Operating lease rentals 1 Minimum lease payments Property 408 399 Minimum lease payments Equipment 36 32 Sublease income 1 1 443 430 Research and development recognised as an expense 15 3 Rental income received on investment property 2 2 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 56 58 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property: Owned assets 189 187 Under finance leases 9 8 Impairment of intangible assets 4 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 10 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 4 Gain loss on disposal: Land and buildings and investment property 1 4 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 8 Write down to recoverable value of trade and other receivables 5 4 1.
Excludes rentals provided against as part of exceptional restructuring provision see note 25.
Of the amortisation of intangible assets charge, 1m 2016 17: 1m and 55m 2016 17: 57m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Auditors remuneration millions 2017 18 2016 17 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.2 Audit fees 1.7 1.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.3 0.2 Non-audit fees 0.4 0.3 Auditors remuneration 2.1 1.9 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 68 to 69.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
126 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 126 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before taxation 8 Employees and directors millions 2017 18 2016 17 The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: Wages and salaries 1,416 1,342 millions 2017 18 2016 17 Social security costs 276 259 Sales 11,655 11,225 Post-employment benefits Other income 25 26 Defined contribution 26 23 Finance income 16 13 Defined benefit service cost 11 9 Revenue 11,696 11,264 Share-based compensation 8 15 Employee benefit expenses 1,737 1,648 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Operating lease rentals Number thousands 2017 18 2016 17 1 Stores 72 71 Minimum lease payments Property 408 399 Administration 6 6 Minimum lease payments Equipment 36 32 Average number of persons employed 78 77 Sublease income 1 1 443 430 The average number of persons employed excludes those employed by the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Research and development recognised as an expense 15 3 Rental income received on investment property 2 2 Remuneration of key management personnel 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 56 58 millions 2017 18 2016 17 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property: Short-term employee benefits 6.4 6.7 Owned assets 189 187 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Under finance leases 9 8 Termination benefits 0.7 1.2 Impairment of intangible assets 4 Share-based compensation 3.8 5.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 10 11.4 13.3 Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 4 Gain loss on disposal: The Group defines key management personnel as being those members of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Land and buildings and investment property 1 4 Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 93.
Other than as Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 8 set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2016 17: nil.
Write down to recoverable value of trade and other receivables 5 4 1.
Of the amortisation of intangible assets charge, 1m 2016 17: 1m and 55m 2016 17: 57m are included in selling and distribution expenses millions 2017 18 2016 17 and administrative expenses respectively.
UK corporation tax Auditors remuneration Current tax on profits for the year 32 66 millions 2017 18 2016 17 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 10 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.4 40 56 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: Overseas tax The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.2 Current tax on profits for the year 152 155 Audit fees 1.7 1.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 11 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 154 166 Other assurance services 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax Non-audit fees 0.4 0.3 Current year 20 22 Auditors remuneration 2.1 1.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 16 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 16 35 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another 3 73 supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 68 to 69.
Income tax expense 197 149 126 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense continued Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2016 17: 20%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Profit before taxation 682 759 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2016 17: 20% 130 152 Net expense not deductible for tax purposes 5 5 Temporary differences: Losses not recognised 2 2 Foreign tax rate differences 67 40 Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 15 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 16 35 Income tax expense 197 149 The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 30% 2016 17: 26%.
The increase in the effective tax rate is largely due to a one-off French tax surcharge in 2017 18.
Tax on exceptional items for the year amount to a charge of nil.
In 2016 17 tax on exceptional items amounted to a charge of 6m, including a credit of 1m relating to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 35.
The overall tax rate for the year is 29% 2016 17: 20%.
This predominately reflects enacted rate changes in France, where the rate applicable to the current year was increased retrospectively by 10%, offset by further rate reductions that are due to have a progressive effect from 2019 20.
These have resulted in an increased current tax charge and additional deferred tax credits in the year respectively.
In addition, movements on prior year provisions reflect a reassessment of expected outcomes, agreed positions with tax authorities and items that have time expired.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 28m has been credited directly to equity 2016 17: 13m credit of which a 2m credit 2016 17: 5m credit is included in current tax and a 26m credit 2016 17: 8m credit is included in deferred tax.
This principally relates to cash flow hedges and post-employment benefits.
Changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate fell from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and has been legislated to fall to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The surcharge in France that retrospectively increased the applicable rate to 44.43% in the current year was a one-off and will not apply in future periods.
New legislation enacted in the year will progressively reduce the applicable rate in France to 25.83% by 2022 23, with the first reduction applicable to Kingfisher Group companies from 1 January 2019 when the rate will become 32.02%.
128 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 128 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense continued 10 Earnings per share 2017 18 2016 17 Factors affecting tax charge for the year Weighted Weighted The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2016 17: 20%.
The differences are average average explained below: number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share millions 2017 18 2016 17 millions millions pence millions millions pence Profit before taxation 682 759 Basic earnings per share 485 2,192 22.1 610 2,256 27.1 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2016 17: 20% 130 152 Effect of dilutive share options 9 0.1 7 0.1 Net expense not deductible for tax purposes 5 5 Diluted earnings per share 485 2,201 22.0 610 2,263 27.0 Temporary differences: Losses not recognised 2 2 Basic earnings per share 485 2,192 22.1 610 2,256 27.1 Foreign tax rate differences 67 40 Exceptional items before tax 17 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 15 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 7 0.3 43 2.0 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 16 35 Financing fair value remeasurements 1 1 0.1 Income tax expense 197 149 Adjusted basic earnings per share 479 2,192 21.8 551 2,256 24.4 Transformation costs before exceptional items 114 5.2 44 2.0 The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates Tax on transformation costs before exceptional items 35 1.5 11 0.5 on deferred tax is 30% 2016 17: 26%.
Tax Underlying basic earnings per share 558 2,192 25.5 584 2,256 25.9 on exceptional items for the year amount to a charge of nil.
This predominately reflects enacted rate changes in France, where the rate Exceptional items before tax 17 0.8 applicable to the current year was increased retrospectively by 10%, offset by further rate reductions that are due to have a progressive effect from 2019 20.
Tax on exceptional and prior year items 7 0.3 43 2.0 In addition, movements on prior year provisions reflect a reassessment of expected outcomes, agreed positions with tax authorities and Financing fair value remeasurements 1 1 0.1 items that have time expired.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 479 2,201 21.7 551 2,263 24.3 In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 28m has been credited directly to equity 2016 17: 13m credit of Transformation costs before exceptional items 114 5.2 44 2.0 which a 2m credit 2016 17: 5m credit is included in current tax and a 26m credit 2016 17: 8m credit is included in deferred tax.
This Tax on transformation costs before exceptional items 35 1.5 11 0.5 principally relates to cash flow hedges and post-employment benefits.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 558 2,201 25.4 584 2,263 25.8 Changes in tax rates Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the The UK corporation tax rate fell from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and has been legislated to fall to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The surcharge weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan trust ESOP in France that retrospectively increased the applicable rate to 44.43% in the current year was a one-off and will not apply in future periods.
trust which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
The intervening rates applicable will be For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary 28.92% 2020 21 and 27.37% 2021 22. shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 Dividends millions 2017 18 2016 17 Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company Ordinary interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2018 of 3.33p per share 31 January 2017: 3.25p per share 72 73 Ordinary final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2017 of 7.15p per share 31 January 2016: 6.92p per share 159 157 231 230 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2018 of 7.49p per ordinary share amounting to 162m, based on the issued share capital at the year end is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
128 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill millions Cost At 1 February 2017 2,414 Additions 36 Exchange differences 2 At 31 January 2018 2,452 Impairment At 1 February 2017 15 At 31 January 2018 15 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 2,437 Cost At 1 February 2016 2,412 Exchange differences 2 At 31 January 2017 2,414 Impairment At 1 February 2016 15 At 31 January 2017 15 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 2,399 During the year the Group acquired Praktiker Romania S. A. resulting in additions to goodwill of 36m see note 32.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland Romania Total At 31 January 2018 Cost 1,796 524 81 51 2,452 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 524 81 36 2,437 At 31 January 2017 Cost 1,796 522 81 15 2,414 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 522 81 2,399 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France, Poland and Romania.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.
130 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 130 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Assumptions 12 Goodwill millions The cash flow projections are based on approved strategic plans covering a three-year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
The projections reflect certain benefits of the ONE Kingfisher plan, Cost including creating a unified, unique and leading offer and optimising operational efficiency.
For further details, refer to the Strategic Report At 1 February 2017 2,414 on pages 2 to 48.
Additions 36 Key drivers in the strategic plans are sales growth, margin and operating profit percentages.
Sales projections take into consideration Exchange differences 2 both external factors such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading plans and certain elements of the Groups At 31 January 2018 2,452 transformation plan.
They assume sales increases in each country that are higher than recent experience and market growth expectations, driven largely by an improved offer and price reinvestment.
Assumed margin percentage improvements reflect a lower cost of goods sold Impairment from leveraging the Groups buying scale through a unified offer, which will be partially offset by range clearance and implementation costs.
Higher assumed operating profit percentages reflect operational leverage from increased sales as well as cost savings through At 1 February 2017 15 operational efficiencies, in particular from unifying goods not for resale spend.
At 31 January 2018 15 Cash flows beyond this three-year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
Net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 2,437 The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis, including elimination of the projected benefits of the transformation plan, and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Cost The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and At 1 February 2016 2,412 borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made for each country in which the CGU operates.
Exchange differences 2 The pre-tax risk adjusted nominal discount rates and long-term nominal growth rates used are as follows: At 31 January 2017 2,414 2017 18 Annual % rate UK France Poland Romania Impairment Discount rate 8.5 8.8 10.1 13.0 At 1 February 2016 15 Long-term growth rate 3.2 2.6 3.5 3.9 At 31 January 2017 15 2016 17 Net carrying amount Annual % rate UK France Poland At 31 January 2017 2,399 Discount rate 8.4 7.3 10.6 Long-term growth rate 3.2 2.3 3.1 During the year the Group acquired Praktiker Romania S. A. resulting in additions to goodwill of 36m see note 32.
130 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Other intangible assets Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 1 February 2017 708 14 722 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 100 100 Disposals 170 170 Exchange differences 5 5 At 31 January 2018 643 15 658 Amortisation At 1 February 2017 405 9 414 Charge for the year 56 56 Disposals 170 170 Exchange differences 3 3 At 31 January 2018 294 9 303 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 349 6 355 Cost At 1 February 2016 610 12 622 Additions 92 92 Disposals 2 2 Exchange differences 8 2 10 At 31 January 2017 708 14 722 Amortisation At 1 February 2016 339 7 346 Charge for the year 57 1 58 Impairment losses 4 4 Disposals 2 2 Exchange differences 7 1 8 At 31 January 2017 405 9 414 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 303 5 308 Additions in the current and prior year primarily related to the development of the unified IT platform, which will be amortised over its estimated useful life of 10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.
None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
132 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 132 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Other intangible assets 14 Property, plant and equipment Computer Fixtures, millions software Other Total Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost Cost At 1 February 2017 708 14 722 At 1 February 2017 3,183 2,760 5,943 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 103 192 295 Additions 100 100 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 6 9 Disposals 170 170 Disposals 9 124 133 Exchange differences 5 5 Exchange differences 42 25 67 At 31 January 2018 643 15 658 At 31 January 2018 3,322 2,859 6,181 Amortisation Depreciation At 1 February 2017 405 9 414 At 1 February 2017 488 1,866 2,354 Charge for the year 56 56 Charge for the year 43 155 198 Disposals 170 170 Impairment reversals 3 1 4 Exchange differences 3 3 Impairment losses 2 3 5 At 31 January 2018 294 9 303 Disposals 7 121 128 Exchange differences 3 17 20 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 526 1,919 2,445 At 31 January 2018 349 6 355 Net carrying amount Cost At 31 January 2018 2,796 940 3,736 At 1 February 2016 610 12 622 Additions 92 92 Cost Disposals 2 2 At 1 February 2016 2,841 2,617 5,458 Exchange differences 8 2 10 Additions 117 201 318 At 31 January 2017 708 14 722 Disposals 35 187 222 Transfers to investment property 3 3 Amortisation Exchange differences 263 129 392 At 1 February 2016 339 7 346 At 31 January 2017 3,183 2,760 5,943 Charge for the year 57 1 58 Impairment losses 4 4 Depreciation Disposals 2 2 At 1 February 2016 430 1,816 2,246 Exchange differences 7 1 8 Charge for the year 41 154 195 At 31 January 2017 405 9 414 Impairment losses 7 3 10 Disposals 24 178 202 Net carrying amount Exchange differences 34 71 105 At 31 January 2017 303 5 308 At 31 January 2017 488 1,866 2,354 Additions in the current and prior year primarily related to the development of the unified IT platform, which will be amortised over its Net carrying amount estimated useful life of 10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.
At 31 January 2017 2,695 894 3,589 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 64 81 145 At 31 January 2017 26 52 78 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 11 30 41 At 31 January 2017 14 27 41 Net impairment losses of 1m have been recorded in the year 2016 17: 10m.
In the prior year, of the 10m impairment loss recorded, 8m related to the UK and continental Europe exceptional restructuring programmes as described in note 5.
These were based on a determination of recoverable amounts of the stores as the net present value of future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell using market valuations performed by independent external valuers if higher.
132 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued The cumulative total of capitalised borrowing costs included within property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is 27m 2016 17: 27m.
Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2017 18 2016 17 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,736 184 402 3,322 3,183 Depreciation 237 36 253 526 488 Net carrying amount 2,499 148 149 2,796 2,695 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 31 January 2018 is 144m 2016 17: 127m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in October by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.5bn 2016 17: 3.4bn on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
Property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell when reviewing for impairment.
15 Investment property millions Cost At 1 February 2017 36 Disposals 9 At 31 January 2018 27 Depreciation At 1 February 2017 12 Disposals 6 Exchange differences 1 At 31 January 2018 7 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2018 20 Cost At 1 February 2016 37 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 Disposals 4 At 31 January 2017 36 Depreciation At 1 February 2016 12 At 31 January 2017 12 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 24 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 47m 2016 17: 36m.
All the investment property market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
134 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 134 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued 16 Investments in joint ventures and associates millions The cumulative total of capitalised borrowing costs included within property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is 27m 2016 17: 27m.
At 1 February 2017 23 Land and buildings are analysed as follows: Share of post-tax results 3 2017 18 2016 17 Exchange differences 1 Long Short At 31 January 2018 25 millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,736 184 402 3,322 3,183 At 1 February 2016 23 Depreciation 237 36 253 526 488 Share of post-tax results 1 Net carrying amount 2,499 148 149 2,796 2,695 Exchange differences 1 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on At 31 January 2017 23 a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2016 17: nil.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in Details of the Groups significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: October by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.5bn 2016 17: 3.4bn on a sale and leaseback Principal place Class of basis with Kingfisher in occupancy.
Property, plant and equipment of business % interest held shares owned Main activity market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value Principal joint venture measurement.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell 1 Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 50% Ordinary Retailing when reviewing for impairment.
Principal associate 1 Crealfi S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance 15 Investment property 1.
The financial statements of these companies are prepared to 31 December.
millions Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: Cost 2017 18 2016 17 At 1 February 2017 36 millions Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total Disposals 9 Non-current assets 16 2 18 19 2 21 At 31 January 2018 27 Current assets 44 58 102 40 59 99 Current liabilities 40 45 85 39 47 86 Depreciation Non-current liabilities 10 10 11 11 At 1 February 2017 12 Share of net assets 10 15 25 9 14 23 Disposals 6 Exchange differences 1 Sales 150 11 161 159 10 169 At 31 January 2018 7 Operating expenses 143 11 154 154 9 163 Operating profit 7 7 5 1 6 Net carrying amount Net finance costs 3 3 5 5 At 31 January 2018 20 Profit before taxation 4 4 1 1 Income tax expense 1 1 Cost Share of post-tax results 3 3 1 1 At 1 February 2016 37 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 Disposals 4 17 Inventories millions 2017 18 2016 17 At 31 January 2017 36 Finished goods for resale 2,701 2,173 Depreciation Included within finished goods for resale is a deduction for rebates to reflect inventories that have not been sold at the balance sheet date.
At 1 February 2016 12 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2018 is 6,710m At 31 January 2017 12 2016 17: 6,449m.
Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 24 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
134 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Trade and other receivables millions 2017 18 2016 17 Non-current Prepayments 7 7 Property receivables 1 1 8 8 Current Trade receivables 66 65 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 5 5 Net trade receivables 61 60 Property receivables 10 3 Prepayments 124 131 Rebates due from suppliers 274 287 Other receivables 81 70 550 551 Trade and other receivables 558 559 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 23 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
19 Cash and cash equivalents millions 2017 18 2016 17 Cash at bank and in hand 202 209 Other cash and cash equivalents 28 586 Cash and cash equivalents 230 795 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
The Group enters into net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
136 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 136 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Trade and other receivables 20 Trade and other payables millions 2017 18 2016 17 millions 2017 18 2016 17 Non-current Current Prepayments 7 7 Trade payables 1,552 1,431 Property receivables 1 1 Other taxation and social security 243 232 Deferred income 146 138 8 8 Accruals and other payables 725 694 2,666 2,495 Current Trade receivables 66 65 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 5 5 Non-current Net trade receivables 61 60 Accruals and other payables 61 50 Property receivables 10 3 Prepayments 124 131 Trade and other payables 2,727 2,545 Rebates due from suppliers 274 287 Accruals and other payables include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
Other receivables 81 70 550 551 The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Trade and other receivables 558 559 21 Borrowings millions 2017 18 2016 17 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 23 for information on the credit risk Current associated with trade and other receivables.
Bank loans 2 3 Fixed term debt 125 19 Cash and cash equivalents Finance leases 13 11 millions 2017 18 2016 17 140 14 Cash at bank and in hand 202 209 Other cash and cash equivalents 28 586 Non-current Cash and cash equivalents 230 795 Bank loans 4 6 Fixed term debt 147 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
Finance leases 32 31 The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
36 184 The Group enters into net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the Borrowings 176 198 event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current bank loans mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
These are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of one year 2016 17: two years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 2.3% 2016 17: 1.1%.
The net movement in bank loans of 3m arises from 4m of loans recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries see note 32, less 7m of net cashflows to repay loans.
136 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Borrowings continued Fixed term debt 2017 18 2016 17 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount m amount m 1 US Dollar Private Placement $179m 24 05 18 6.4% 6.4% 125 147 1.
$179m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6-month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Group values its US Dollar Private Placement USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
The net movement in the carrying amount of the Groups USPP of 22m arises from interest rate fair value gains of 6m and foreign exchange gains of 17m, with both elements subject to fair value hedges see note 22, and amortisation of issue costs of 1m.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2018.
Finance leases The Group leases some of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is six years 2016 17: six years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2016 17: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2017 18 2016 17 Present Present value Minimum value of Minimum millions of payments payments payments payments Less than one year 13 15 11 12 One to five years 24 28 22 27 More than five years 8 10 9 13 Total 45 53 42 52 Less amounts representing finance charges 8 10 Present value of minimum lease payments 45 42 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 6.9% 2016 17: 8.2%.
The net movement in finance lease liabilities of 3m arises from 3m of finance leases recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries see note 32, new finance leases acquired of 11m, less 11m net cashflows to repay finance leases.
Fair values Fair value millions 2017 18 2016 17 Bank loans 5 9 Fixed term debt 129 153 Finance leases 56 49 Borrowings 190 211 Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
138 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 138 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21 Borrowings continued 22 Derivatives The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: Fixed term debt millions 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 Fair value hedges 32 54 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount m amount m Cash flow hedges 51 20 1 US Dollar Private Placement $179m 24 05 18 6.4% 6.4% 125 147 Non-designated hedges 19 10 38 64 1.
The Group values its US Dollar Private Placement USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on Non-current assets 54 observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
Current assets 41 36 The carrying amounts of the USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
Current liabilities 79 26 The net movement in the carrying amount of the Groups USPP of 22m arises from interest rate fair value gains of 6m and foreign 38 64 exchange gains of 17m, with both elements subject to fair value hedges see note 22, and amortisation of issue costs of 1m.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating The Group holds the following derivative financial instruments at fair value: profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has millions 2017 18 2016 17 complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2018.
Cross currency interest rate swaps 32 55 Foreign exchange contracts 9 35 Finance leases The Group leases some of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is Derivative assets 41 90 six years 2016 17: six years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2016 17: two years.
millions 2017 18 2016 17 Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: Foreign exchange contracts 79 26 2017 18 2016 17 Derivative liabilities 79 26 Present Present value Minimum value of Minimum The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk.
These fair value millions of payments payments payments payments measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.
Less than one year 13 15 11 12 One to five years 24 28 22 27 All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, representing significant observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for More than five years 8 10 9 13 identical assets or liabilities.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities Total 45 53 42 52 between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Less amounts representing finance charges 8 10 At 31 January 2018, net derivative assets included in net cash amount to 14m 2016 17: 44m net derivative assets.
The movement in Present value of minimum lease payments 45 42 these net derivative assets arises from net fair value losses of 30m.
The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest Fair value hedges rate on the Groups finance leases is 6.9% 2016 17: 8.2%.
Fair value hedges comprise cross currency interest rate swap contracts that convert US Private Placement fixed rate debt into floating The net movement in finance lease liabilities of 3m arises from 3m of finance leases recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries see note rate liabilities.
At 31 January 2018, the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 126m 2016 17: 142m.
32, new finance leases acquired of 11m, less 11m net cashflows to repay finance leases.
Cash flow hedges Fair values Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 31 January 2018, the Sterling Fair value equivalent amount of such contracts is 892m 2016 17: 774m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to millions 2017 18 2016 17 inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Losses of 20m 2016 17: gains of 60m have been transferred Bank loans 5 9 to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Fixed term debt 129 153 Non-designated hedges Finance leases 56 49 The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance Borrowings 190 211 sheet positions.
At 31 January 2018, the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 1,423m 2016 17: 679m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
These include short-term foreign exchange contracts.
resulted in level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
The Group enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with over-thecounter derivatives.
These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties to settle cash flows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations.
138 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Derivatives continued Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: Net amounts of Gross amounts of Gross amounts derivatives derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 31 January 2018 Derivative assets 41 41 41 Derivative liabilities 79 79 41 38 At 31 January 2017 Derivative assets 90 90 26 64 Derivative liabilities 26 26 26 23 Financial risk management Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business, the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland and Russia.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and consider effective risk management solutions.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months.
This is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its debt and cash using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2018 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 22 54 29 91 127 18 69 54 Fair value adjustments to net cash Financing derivatives 1,084 353 128 525 92 14 Net cash 22 1,030 29 444 1 543 161 68 At 31 January 2017 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 24 90 27 120 142 544 42 603 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 6 Financing derivatives 619 432 150 81 44 Net cash 24 529 27 552 2 544 123 641 140 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 140 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are 22 Derivatives continued borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Net amounts of Gross amounts of 2017 18 2016 17 Gross amounts derivatives derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the Net finance Net finance recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated costs costs millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount income income millions costs costs At 31 January 2018 Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Derivative assets 41 41 41 Sterling 10 5 Derivative liabilities 79 79 41 38 Euro 4 6 At 31 January 2017 US Dollar 5 5 Derivative assets 90 90 26 64 Other 2 1 Derivative liabilities 26 26 26 Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from 23 Financial risk management the retranslation of financial instruments.
Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board 2017 18 2016 17 reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow these risks.
hedges hedges millions increase increase In the normal course of business, the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges are fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
US Dollar against Sterling 40 43 Interest rate risk US Dollar against Euro 30 21 Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates US Dollar against other 10 8 of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases Currency risk occur.
See note 22 for further details.
The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and Rouble exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, and Russia.
hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty reflecting the positions at 31 January 2018 and 31 January 2017 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those of its member states.
dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2018 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 22 54 29 91 127 18 69 54 Fair value adjustments to net cash Financing derivatives 1,084 353 128 525 92 14 Net cash 22 1,030 29 444 1 543 161 68 At 31 January 2017 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 24 90 27 120 142 544 42 603 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 6 Financing derivatives 619 432 150 81 44 Net cash 24 529 27 552 2 544 123 641 140 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next three years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables and short term foreign exchange contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 January 2018 Bank loans 2 1 1 1 1 6 Fixed term debt 130 130 Finance leases 15 10 8 6 4 10 53 Derivatives receipts 130 130 Derivatives payments 97 97 At 31 January 2017 Bank loans 3 2 2 1 1 9 Fixed term debt 9 147 156 Finance leases 12 8 8 6 5 13 52 Derivatives receipts 9 147 156 Derivatives payments 1 98 99 At 31 January 2018, the Group had undrawn revolving committed facilities of 225m due to mature in March 2022 and 400m due to mature in November 2019.
The facilities both contain a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2018. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with strong short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same-day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value f deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 31 January 2018, the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was 14m 2016 17: 63m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity, spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 31 January 2018, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 88m 2016 17: 62m, of which 6m 2016 17: 3m are over 120 days past due.
Refer to note 35 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 38.
24 Deferred tax millions 2017 18 2016 17 Deferred tax assets 30 28 Deferred tax liabilities 264 282 234 254 142 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 142 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and 23 Financial risk management continued when the Group intends, and has the legally enforceable right, to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
PostLiquidity risk Accelerated tax Gains on employment The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benefits Other Total forecast for the next three years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at At 1 February 2017 141 96 79 16 108 4 254 its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
Credit charge to income statement 4 13 21 3 2 3 The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity Credit to other comprehensive income 9 17 26 groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables Exchange differences 4 1 1 1 3 and short term foreign exchange contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual At 31 January 2018 141 83 59 18 100 13 234 undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 1 February 2016 136 114 41 9 116 6 322 At 31 January 2018 Credit charge to income statement 13 24 32 6 2 73 Bank loans 2 1 1 1 1 6 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 1 1 6 2 8 Fixed term debt 130 130 Exchange differences 18 7 7 1 4 13 Finance leases 15 10 8 6 4 10 53 At 31 January 2017 141 96 79 16 108 4 254 Derivatives receipts 130 130 Derivatives payments 97 97 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused trading tax losses of 161m 2016 17: 135m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 93m 2016 17: 81m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 68m 2016 17: 54m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams in the relevant entities.
Included in At 31 January 2017 unrecognised tax losses are losses arising in Romania of 46m 2016 17: 37m and Portugal of 12m 2016 17: 7m which can be carried Bank loans 3 2 2 1 1 9 forward only in the next one to seven and one to twelve years respectively.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Fixed term debt 9 147 156 At the balance sheet date, the Group also has unused capital tax losses of 88m 2016 17: 96m available for offset against future capital Finance leases 12 8 8 6 5 13 52 and carried forward gains.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Derivatives receipts 9 147 156 No deferred tax liability is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
As the earnings are Derivatives payments 1 98 99 continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Earnings which could be remitted on which there would be tax to pay total 197m 2016 17: 179m.
At 31 January 2018, the Group had undrawn revolving committed facilities of 225m due to mature in March 2022 and 400m due to mature in November 2019.
The facilities both contain a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial 25 Provisions reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total Credit risk At 1 February 2017 20 142 162 The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with strong short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which Charge to income statement 7 9 16 have AAA credit ratings and offer same-day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value Release to the income statement 2 13 15 f deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative Utilised in the year 3 73 76 contracts across several counterparties.
Acquisition of subsidiaries 8 8 Unwinding of discount 1 1 The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
Exchange differences 1 1 2 At 31 January 2018 31 67 98 No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Current liabilities 7 18 25 Non-current liabilities 24 49 73 At 31 January 2018, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 88m 2016 17: 62m, of which 6m 2016 17: 3m are over 120 days past due.
31 67 98 Refer to note 35 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Within the onerous property contracts provisions, the Group has provided against future liabilities for properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties.
Such provisions exclude those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring Capital risk provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges net of Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 38. sublease income.
Onerous property contract provisions also include amounts relating to properties acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries at above-market rents.
24 Deferred tax Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK and continental Europe restructuring programmes as detailed further in millions 2017 18 2016 17 note 5, the vast majority of which relates to future idle property costs, in addition to some employee redundancy costs.
During 2016 17, the Deferred tax assets 30 28 Group entered into a lease liability transaction with a third party to dispose of the remaining leases following the closure of these stores, Deferred tax liabilities 264 282 with the related onerous lease provisions continuing to be recognised.
The release recorded in the year primarily reflects savings on B&Q store exit costs as compared with the original provisions recognised.
This has been partially offset by provisions recorded principally in 234 254 respect of UK restructuring and efficiency costs.
142 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Provisions continued For the B&Q UK onerous leases, the weighted average remaining lease term to earliest exit, before any surrenders, assignment or mitigation through subleases, is ten years.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
26 Post-employment benefits The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK.
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature.
Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Charge to operating profit 26 23 From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employerappointed directors, one independent director and four member-nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group pensions department of Kingfisher plc.
The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below, and entering into bulk annuities.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 37m from April 2017.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will r eview with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the Trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in the UK scheme is recognised in full.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to much of the income of the partnership over the 20-year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
144 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 144 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage 25 Provisions continued has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for For the B&Q UK onerous leases, the weighted average remaining lease term to earliest exit, before any surrenders, assignment or preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
mitigation through subleases, is ten years.
Income statement 2017 18 2016 17 The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total and subletting surplus space.
Amounts charged to operating profit Current service cost 2 9 11 2 7 9 26 Post-employment benefits Administration costs 4 4 4 4 The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes 6 9 15 6 7 13 and defined contribution schemes.
The principal Amounts credited charged to net finance costs overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature.
Net interest income expense 7 2 5 9 2 7 Total credited charged to income statement 1 11 10 3 9 6 Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: Of the net charge to operating profit, a 11m charge 2016 17: 9m charge and 4m charge 2016 17: 4m charge are included in selling millions 2017 18 2016 17 and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of Charge to operating profit 26 23 comprehensive income.
Balance sheet From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been 2017 18 2016 17 automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013. millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations 3,002 134 3,136 2,999 126 3,125 Defined benefit schemes Fair value of scheme assets 3,216 19 3,235 3,238 18 3,256 The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
Net surplus deficit in schemes 214 115 99 239 108 131 The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day 2017 18 2016 17 administration of the scheme to the Group pensions department of Kingfisher plc.
millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Net surplus deficit in schemes at beginning of year 239 108 131 246 87 159 The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk Current service cost 2 9 11 2 7 9 and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally Administration costs 4 4 4 4 approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes Net interest income expense 7 2 5 9 2 7 a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have Net actuarial losses gains 62 4 58 46 4 50 included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below, and entering into bulk annuities.
Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 2 38 A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation Exchange differences 2 2 10 10 was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
Net surplus deficit in schemes at end of year 214 115 99 239 108 131 Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 37m from April 2017.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective 2017 18 2016 17 is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will r Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year 2,999 126 3,125 2,374 102 2,476 eview with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
Current service cost 2 9 11 2 7 9 The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in Interest expense 79 2 81 84 2 86 the event of a plan wind-up.
Actuarial losses gains changes in financial assumptions 23 1 22 637 3 640 Actuarial losses changes in demographic assumptions 57 57 UK scheme interest in property partnership Actuarial losses gains experience adjustments 49 3 46 60 1 59 In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with Benefits paid 150 2 152 95 1 96 the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests Exchange differences 3 3 12 12 are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 3,002 134 3,136 2,999 126 3,125 June 2011 respectively.
144 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26 Post-employment benefits continued The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligations is 66% 2016 17: 66% in respect of deferred members and 34% 2016 17: 34% in respect of current pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 19 years 2016 17: 19 years.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2017 18 2016 17 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 3,238 18 3,256 2,620 15 2,635 Administration costs 4 4 4 4 Interest income 86 86 93 93 Actuarial gains actual return less interest income 10 10 588 588 Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 2 38 Benefits paid 150 2 152 95 1 96 Exchange differences 1 1 2 2 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 3,216 19 3,235 3,238 18 3,256 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2017 18 2016 17 millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total 1 Government bonds 1,382 1,382 43% 1,616 1,616 49% Corporate bonds 880 880 27% 849 849 26% Derivatives 82 82 3% 94 94 3% UK equities 17 17 1% 61 61 2% Overseas equities 224 224 7% 281 281 9% Property 23 23 1% 28 28 1% Annuities 394 394 12% 217 217 7% Cash and other 378 19 397 12% 280 18 298 9% Total fair value of scheme assets 3,216 19 3,235 100% 3,238 18 3,256 100% 1.
Including LDI repurchase agreement liabilities.
All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 572m 2016 17: 397m of property, annuity and other assets.
During the year the UK pension scheme purchased a second annuity for 209 million from a major insurance company.
A similar transaction was undertaken in 2015 16 that targeted the top layer of the schemes pensioner liabilities.
The second annuity targeted the next layer of pensioner liabilities, removing the longevity risk associated with these members.
Measured against the long-term funding objective that has been agreed between Kingfisher and the Trustee, the transaction generated a modest funding improvement as well as a significant reduction in funding risk.
As the cost of the annuity of 209m was greater than the IAS 19 accounting value of the corresponding liabilities, a loss of 31m has been recorded in other comprehensive income.
To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit schemes assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The government bond assets category in the table above includes gross assets of 2.8bn 2016 17: 3.0bn and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of 1.4bn 2016 17: 1.4bn.
Repurchase agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Interest rate and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds in matching the profile of the schemes liabilities.
The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 37m.
146 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 146 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Principal actuarial valuation assumptions 26 Post-employment benefits continued The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligations is 66% 2016 17: 66% in respect of deferred members and 34% 2016 17: 34% after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and in respect of current pensioners.
changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is derived using a single equivalent discount rate approach, based on the yields available on a portfolio Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: of high-quality Sterling corporate bonds with the same duration as that of the scheme liabilities.
2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Annual % rate UK Overseas UK Overseas Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 3,238 18 3,256 2,620 15 2,635 Discount rate 2.5 1.5 2.7 1.5 Administration costs 4 4 4 4 Price inflation 3.4 2.0 3.6 2.0 Interest income 86 86 93 93 Rate of pension increases 3.1 3.3 Actuarial gains actual return less interest income 10 10 588 588 Salary escalation n a 2.4 n a 2.4 Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 2 38 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used for IAS 19 purposes have been selected with regard to the characteristics and Benefits paid 150 2 152 95 1 96 experience of the membership of the scheme as assessed from time to time relating to triennial funding valuations.
The base mortality Exchange differences 1 1 2 2 assumptions have been derived using an analysis of current mortality rates carried out by Club Vita for the Trustee and the CMI life Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 3,216 19 3,235 3,238 18 3,256 expectancy projection model data published by the UK actuarial profession.
The latter allowance is in line with CMI 2015 improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: as follows: 2017 18 2016 17 Years 2017 18 2016 17 millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now 1 Government bonds 1,382 1,382 43% 1,616 1,616 49% Male 87.2 87.1 Corporate bonds 880 880 27% 849 849 26% Female 88.9 88.8 Derivatives 82 82 3% 94 94 3% Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time UK equities 17 17 1% 61 61 2% Male 88.4 88.3 Overseas equities 224 224 7% 281 281 9% Female 90.8 90.7 Property 23 23 1% 28 28 1% Annuities 394 394 12% 217 217 7% The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key actuarial Cash and other 378 19 397 12% 280 18 298 9% assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Total fair value of scheme assets 3,216 19 3,235 100% 3,238 18 3,256 100% Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation 1.
Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 333m Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 266m All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 572m 2016 17: 397m of property, annuity and other assets.
Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 275m During the year the UK pension scheme purchased a second annuity for 209 million from a major insurance company.
A similar Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 99m transaction was undertaken in 2015 16 that targeted the top layer of the schemes pensioner liabilities.
Measured against the long-term funding Due to the asset-liability matching investment strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation objective that has been agreed between Kingfisher and the Trustee, the transaction generated a modest funding improvement as well as a would be significantly offset by movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.
significant reduction in funding risk.
27 Share capital To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit Number of schemes assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The government bond assets category in the table above ordinary Ordinary includes gross assets of 2.8bn 2016 17: 3.0bn and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of 1.4bn 2016 17: 1.4bn.
Repurchase shares share capital millions millions agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining Allotted, called up and fully paid: invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
At 1 February 2017 2,240 352 New shares issued under share schemes 3 1 The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial Purchase of own shares for cancellation 82 13 year is 37m.
At 31 January 2018 2,161 340 At 1 February 2016 2,296 361 New shares issued under share schemes 2 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 58 9 At 31 January 2017 2,240 352 5 Ordinary shares have a par value of 15 pence per share.
7 During the year the Group purchased 82 million 2016 17: 58 million of the Companys own shares for cancellation at a cost of 260m 2016 17: 200m as part of its capital returns programme.
146 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Other reserves Translation Cash flow  reserve hedge reserve sale reserve Other Total At 1 February 2017 184 19 159 362 Currency translation differences Group 84 84 Joint ventures and associates 1 1 Cash flow losses Fair value losses 93 93 Losses transferred to inventories 20 20 Tax on items that may be reclassified 5 17 12 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 78 56 22 At 31 January 2018 262 37 159 384 At 1 February 2016 205 25 2 159 19 Currency translation differences Group 390 390 Joint ventures and associates 1 1 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 52 52 Gains transferred to inventories 60 60 Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value gains 5 5 Transferred to income statement 7 7 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 2 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 389 6 2 381 At 31 January 2017 184 19 159 362 The other category of reserves represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.
29 Share-based payments 2017 18 2016 17 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number of Number of options price options price thousands thousands Outstanding at beginning of year 36,694 0.87 26,532 1.13 1, 2 Granted during the year 12,210 1.05 17,543 0.56 Forfeited and expired during the year 7,421 0.75 3,900 0.97 Exercised during the year 4,942 1.57 3,481 1.14 Outstanding at end of year 36,541 0.87 36,694 0.87 Exercisable at end of year 1,534 0.96 1,332 1.26 1.
The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2018 and 31 January 2017 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2018 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award and 2017 KISP Deferred Bonus Award grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISP Deferred Bonus Award are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price Transformation Incentive awards, Alignment Share awards, KISP awards and discounted Sharesave options see below.
148 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 148 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Information on the share schemes is given in note 13 of the Companys separate financial statements.
28 Other reserves Translation Cash flow Available-forOptions have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, millions reserve hedge reserve sale reserve Other Total rather than at the date of exercise, is 3.20 2016 17: 3.53.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging At 1 February 2017 184 19 159 362 from nil to 3.15 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 5.4 years 2016 17: 5.4 years.
Currency translation differences The Group recognised a total expense of 8m in the year ended 31 January 2018 2016 17: 15m relating to equity-settled share-based Group 84 84 payment transactions.
Joint ventures and associates 1 1 The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option Cash flow losses pricing models.
The inputs of the principal schemes into these models are as follows: Fair value losses 93 93 Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair 2 3 4 Losses transferred to inventories 20 20 Date of at grant price life volatility yield rate value grant years % % % Tax on items that may be reclassified 5 17 12 Kingfisher Incentive Share 25 04 12 2.96 7 2.96 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 78 56 22 1 Scheme 11 04 13 2.97 7 2.97 At 31 January 2018 262 37 159 384 23 04 14 4.19 7 4.19 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan 23 04 15 3.52 7 3.52 At 1 February 2016 205 25 2 159 19 Deferred Bonus Awards 21 04 16 3.61 7 3.61 Currency translation differences 03 05 17 3.40 7 3.40 Group 390 390 Performance Share Plan 17 06 11 2.65 7 2.65 Joint ventures and associates 1 1 21 10 11 2.63 7 2.63 Cash flow hedges 03 05 12 2.91 7 2.91 Fair value gains 52 52 16 10 12 2.81 7 2.81 Gains transferred to inventories 60 60 25 04 13 3.10 7 3.10 Available-for-sale financial assets 22 10 13 3.74 7 3.74 Fair value gains 5 5 Long Term Incentive Awards 03 07 14 3.61 7 3.61 Transferred to income statement 7 7 15 09 14 3.16 7 3.16 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 2 05 05 15 3.54 7 3.54 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 389 6 2 381 20 10 15 3.63 7 3.63 At 31 January 2017 184 19 159 362 UK and International 19 10 12 2.85 2.17 5.5 37.6% 3.3% 0.9% 0.49 Sharesave 22 10 13 3.74 3.15 5.5 33.6% 2.5% 1.6% 0.59 The other category of reserves represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to 21 10 14 2.94 2.52 3.5 23.8% 3.4% 1.1% 0.35 the acquisition of Darty in 1993.
The Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme KISS includes the Company Share Option Plan CSOP element of the KISS awards.
The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2018 and 31 January 2017 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of 2.
Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISP, KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of grant.
For the the 2018 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award and 2017 KISP Deferred Bonus Award grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the Transformation Incentive award and Alignment Share award the expiry date is 10 years from the date of grant.
Expiry of the overseas Alignment Share award is 3 years year.
Since grants under the KISP Deferred Bonus Award are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number from the date of grant.
of options granted until after the year end.
Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately 2.
The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price Transformation Incentive awards, Alignment Share awards, prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
KISP awards and discounted Sharesave options see below.
As these awards are made under an approved SAYE scheme, option holders cannot be compensated for dividends foregone.
As such the historical dividend yield is used, calculated as dividends announced in the 12 months prior to grant as a percentage of the share price on the date of grant.
148 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Cash generated by operations millions 2017 18 2016 17 Operating profit 685 773 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3 1 Depreciation and amortisation 254 253 Net impairment losses 1 14 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment property 2 4 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 Share-based compensation charge 8 15 Increase in inventories 473 46 Decrease in trade and other receivables 12 62 Increase in trade and other payables 87 4 Movement in provisions 75 125 Movement in post-employment benefits 23 25 Cash generated by operations 475 925 31 Net cash millions 2017 18 2016 17 Cash and cash equivalents 230 795 Bank loans 6 9 Fixed term debt 125 147 Financing derivatives 14 44 Finance leases 45 42 Net cash 68 641 Liabilities arising from financing activities comprise bank loans, the Groups USPP and finance leases.
Associated derivatives are cross currency interest rate swaps and cash management swaps.
millions 2017 18 2016 17 Net cash at beginning of year 641 546 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 596 38 Decrease in short-term deposits 70 Repayment of bank loans 7 2 Repayment of fixed term debt 47 Receipt on financing derivatives 10 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 11 12 Cash flow movement in net cash 578 19 Borrowings acquired 7 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 12 76 Net cash at end of year 68 641 150 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 150 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Cash generated by operations 32 Acquisitions millions 2017 18 2016 17 On 30 November 2017, the Group obtained control of Praktiker Romania S. A. Praktiker by acquiring 100% of its share capital for a Operating profit 685 773 consideration of 14m, all of which comprised cash.
Praktiker is a home improvement retailer operating 26 stores across Romania and was acquired to strengthen the Groups position in Romania.
Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 3 1 Depreciation and amortisation 254 253 Goodwill of 36m has been recognised on provisional net liabilities acquired of 22m, representing a strategic premium to strengthen the Groups position in Romania and anticipated synergies that will arise from the acquisition.
None of this goodwill is expected to be deductible Net impairment losses 1 14 for income tax purposes.
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment property 2 4 millions Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 Share-based compensation charge 8 15 Provisional fair value amounts recognised of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Increase in inventories 473 46 Other intangible assets 1 Decrease in trade and other receivables 12 62 Property, plant and equipment 9 Increase in trade and other payables 87 4 Inventories 31 Movement in provisions 75 125 Trade and other receivables 6 Movement in post-employment benefits 23 25 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Cash generated by operations 475 925 Trade and other payables 56 Borrowings 7 Provisions 8 31 Net cash Total identifiable net liabilities acquired 22 millions 2017 18 2016 17 Goodwill 36 Cash and cash equivalents 230 795 Total consideration 14 Bank loans 6 9 Fixed term debt 125 147 The acquisition amounts recorded in the consolidated cash flow statement for the year are: Financing derivatives 14 44 millions Finance leases 45 42 Net cash 68 641 Cash consideration 14 Cash acquired 2 Liabilities arising from financing activities comprise bank loans, the Groups USPP and finance leases.
Associated derivatives are cross Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 12 currency interest rate swaps and cash management swaps.
millions 2017 18 2016 17 Immediately following the acquisition, Kingfisher settled Praktikers bank loans of 4m included within Repayment of bank loans in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Net cash at beginning of year 641 546 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 596 38 Owing to local conditions, Praktiker prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
In the period from 30 November 2017 to 31 December 2017, it contributed sales of 8m and a retail loss of 1m.
If the acquisition had occurred at the start of the financial year, the Groups sales Decrease in short-term deposits 70 would have been 11,760m and Group operating profit, after exceptional items, would have been 676m for the year ended 31 January 2018.
Repayment of bank loans 7 2 Repayment of fixed term debt 47 33 Disposals Receipt on financing derivatives 10 In the prior year, on 5 July 2016, the Group disposed of its remaining 30% interest in the B&Q China business to Wumei Holdings Inc. for a Capital element of finance lease rental payments 11 12 gross consideration of 67m, being the Sterling equivalent of RMB 582m.
The profit on disposal of 3m is analysed as follows: Cash flow movement in net cash 578 19 millions Borrowings acquired 7 Proceeds 67 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 12 76 Disposal costs 4 Net cash at end of year 68 641 Net disposal proceeds 63 Fair value of investment disposed 67 Fair value gains transferred from available-for-sale reserve 7 Exceptional profit on disposal 3 150 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Less than one year 433 427 One to five years 1,420 1,393 More than five years 1,536 1,598 3,389 3,418 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2017 18 2016 17 Less than one year 10 12 One to five years 32 36 More than five years 29 34 71 82 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 42m 2016 17: 62m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 52m 2016 17: 31m.
35 Contingent liabilities The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, 43m 2016 17: 1m could crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
The Group files tax returns in many jurisdictions around the world and at any one time, is subject to periodic tax audits in the ordinary course of its business.
Applicable tax laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and the resolution of a final tax position can take several years to complete.
Where it is considered that future tax liabilities are more likely than not to arise, an appropriate provision is recognised in the financial statements.
Included within these audits is a dispute with the French Tax Authority regarding the treatment of interest paid since the 2010 year end, where additional French tax of 49m 43m has been assessed and for which a bank guarantee is now in place.
At the balance sheet date, interest and penalties of 49m 43m would be due on this assessment if not challenged successfully.
Having taken external professional advice, the Group disagrees with the assessment and intends to defend its position through the courts.
The Group does not consider it necessary to make provision for the amounts assessed at the current time, nor for any potential further amounts which may be assessed for subsequent years.
In October 2017, the European Commission opened a state aid investigation into the Group Financing Exemption section of the UK controlled foreign company rules.
Along with many other UK-based international companies, the Group may be affected by the outcome of this investigation and is therefore monitoring developments.
The Group does not currently consider any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
Whilst the procedures that must be followed to resolve these types of tax issues make it likely that it will be some years before the eventual outcome is known, the Group does not currently expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
152 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 152 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34 Commitments 36 Related party transactions During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business Operating lease commitments and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2017 18 2016 17 millions Income Receivable Income Receivable The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which Transactions with Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
holds a 50% interest There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Commission and other income 0.7 0.2 1.0 0.4 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest millions 2017 18 2016 17 Provision of employee services 0.2 0.1 Less than one year 433 427 Commission and other income 6.6 0.2 6.4 0.3 One to five years 1,420 1,393 Transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme More than five years 1,536 1,598 Provision of administrative services 1.3 1.3 0.1 3,389 3,418 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: with non-related parties.
millions 2017 18 2016 17 The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Less than one year 10 12 Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 26.
One to five years 32 36 More than five years 29 34 37 Events after the balance sheet date 71 82 In February 2018, the Group commenced formal consultation with employee representatives regarding its plans in France to restructure the business as part of the Groups transformation plan.
This is expected to result in an exceptional cost of around 35m.
The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 42m 2016 17: 62m.
152 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 www.
