Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transaction and 1 Significant accounting policies Advanced Consideration Kier Group plc the Company is a public limited company domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, incorporated in England and Wales and IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered Annual Improvements 2014-2016 cycle number is 2708030.
The consolidated financial statements of the Annual Improvements 2015-2017 cycle Company for the year ended 30 June 2018 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Other than the impact of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 as noted Groups interest in joint arrangements.
below, no significant net impact from the adoption of these new standards is expected.
The Group has chosen not to adopt any of The consolidated financial statements were approved by the the above standards and interpretations earlier than required.
The Group is close to concluding its project to assess the impact Statement of compliance of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared Financial Instruments, both of which the Group will adopt in the and approved by the Directors in accordance with International year ending 30 June 2019.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation Impact of IFRS 15 and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable Supported by its external advisers, the Group has conducted to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has applied all a review by contract type for each of its businesses.
This has accounting standards issued by the International Accounting highlighted that the key areas impacted are in the Construction Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS business, where a detailed contract-by-contract assessment has Interpretations Committee as adopted by the European Union been carried out.
Following this review, the Group has assessed and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 July 2017. that there is no material impact in our Property, Residential and Services businesses.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure It is important to note that whilst the replacement of IAS 11 and Framework.
These are presented on pages 183 to 188.
IAS 18 by IFRS 15 can impact on the timing of revenue and profit recognition of a long-term contract within an accounting period, it Basis of preparation does not change the overall revenue, profit or cash generated by The Group has considerable financial resources, long-term the contract.
There may however be a timing impact in terms of contracts and a diverse range of customers and suppliers across profit recognition on transition to IFRS 15 as individual contracts its business activities.
are moved from the measurement basis of one standard to another.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation The Group has elected to adopt the cumulative catch-up method that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to of transition, wherein the results of the prior year are not restated continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
but the initial impact of adopting the standard is taken to opening Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern reserves.
The main areas where the new standard will give rise to basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
an adjustment on adoption occur in our Construction business and are as follows: The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative Move to cost as a measure of progress: previously the Group financial instruments which are stated at their fair value and the used an output measure of progress: however, we will move IFRS 2 charge which is based on fair value movements of the to an input measure of progress as this better reflects the Groups share price.
pattern of transfer of control to the customer: The following amendments to standards are effective for the Derecognition of certain variable revenue items in determining financial year ended 30 June 2018 onwards: forecast project outcomes: IFRS 15 introduces a requirement for recognition of variable consideration for example Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows pain gain shares and milestone payments that is highly Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes probable not to reverse.
We have therefore reviewed our construction contracts and concluded that recognition of Annual Improvements to 2014-2016 cycle some of these items will occur later in the projects: and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Third-party claims: IAS 11 Construction Contracts permitted None of the above amendments to standards has had a material the recognition of expected cost reimbursements resulting effect on the Groups financial statements.
from claims against a third party rather than the customer.
The following new standards and amendments to standards have Certain third-party claims such as insurance recoveries are been issued but were not yet effective and therefore have not been not covered by similar provisions in IFRS 15, which only deals applied in these financial statements: with claims against the customer.
Following the withdrawal of IAS 11, in order to recognise an asset for such a third-party IFRS 2 amendments Share-Based Payments claim we will need to comply with the requirements of IAS 37 IFRS 4 amendments Insurance Contracts Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The requirements of IAS 37 are considerably more stringent than IAS 11, requiring recovery to be virtually certain before an IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers asset can be recognised.
Whilst we still expect to recover the IFRS 16 Leases amounts claimed from third parties that we have recognised at IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts the balance sheet date, we do not believe that certain claims meet the virtually certain criteria of IAS 37.
These claims will IAS 19 amendments Employee Benefits therefore need to be fide-recognised and accounted for in IAS 28 amendments Investments in Associates future periods, when the uncertainty over their recovery IAS 40 amendments Investment Property has been removed.
123 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 In accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, paragraph 1 Significant accounting policies continued 16 d, the comparative cash flow has been restated to show While our work over the impact of IFRS 15 is ongoing, the combined the net proceeds arising from the sale of Mouchel Consulting impact of the above adjustments is expected to be a charge to 58.9m and Biogen 9.7m as non-underlying investing opening reserves at 1 July 2018 of approximately 20m.
activities rather than non-underlying operating activities.
Impact of IFRS 9 Whilst there is no impact on total basic earnings per share, the comparative basic earnings per share from continuing IFRS 9 primarily impacts financial institutions, however, there are operations is decreased by 42.5p and basic earnings per some changes to adopt for the Group.
The main areas of the new share from discontinued operations is increased accordingly.
standard and their expected impact are set out below: The corresponding impacts on diluted earnings per share are Hedge accounting IFRS 9 provides more flexibility on hedge a 0.1p increase in total diluted earnings per share: a 42.4p accounting than IAS 39, potentially allowing more derivatives decrease in diluted earnings per share from continuing to meet the requirements for hedge accounting.
As the operations: and a 42.5p increase in diluted earnings per share Groups key derivatives met IAS 39s hedging criteria, the from discontinued operations.
The comparative information in new standard is not expected to result in major differences Notes 4, 11 and 19 have also been restated accordingly.
to the Groups hedge accounting going forward: In addition, as the Groups use of joint ventures has increased, the Impairment of financial assets An expect credit losses Directors have reviewed the policy covering treatment of dividends model has been introduced whereby expected losses as from joint ventures.
The Directors concluded that presenting the well as incurred losses are provided for.
As the majority of profit and return of equity components of these dividends, into the Groups receivables are with utility companies, transport operating and investing cashflows respectively, better enabled the agencies, government agencies and local authorities, it has reader to understand the underlying transactions.
Consequently, had low incidence of bad debt and consequently currently 5.6m has been reclassified in the prior year cashflow statement maintains a modest bad debt provision.
Adoption of this from dividends received from joint ventures to return of equity in model is not expected to have a material impact on the joint ventures.
Group: and The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in Classification and measurement of financial assets Under dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the IAS 39 the accounting treatment of facility fees depended Groups financial statements.
upon the distinction between whether the facility re-negotiation was treated as an extinguishment of the original liability and Basis of consolidation recognition of a new financial liability or whether it was treated a Subsidiaries as a modification of an existing liability.
However, under IFRS The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 9, the treatment of the gain or loss on extinguishment or statements of the Company and subsidiaries controlled by the modification is the same.
This will impact the Groups Company drawn up to 30 June 2018.
Control exists when the Group previous treatment of the costs of refinancing its has direct or indirect power to govern the financial and operating borrowing facilities.
policies of an entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its The Groups work is ongoing in this area, however our current view activities.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial is that the net impact of the above is not expected to be material.
statements from the date that control transfers to the Group until the date that control ceases.
Impact of IFRS 16 The Group continues to work on assessing the impact of IFRS 16 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Leases.
As previously disclosed, the main impact of IFRS 16 method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which will be to move the Groups larger, longer-term operating leases, control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern primarily in respect of property, onto the balance sheet, with a the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain consequential increase in non-current assets and finance lease benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group obligations.
Operating lease charges included in administrative takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently expenses will be replaced by depreciation and interest costs.
The Group will not be adopting IFRS 16 early and therefore the first If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date set of accounts prepared under this standard will be those for the carrying value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the year ended 30 June 2020. acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date: any gains or losses arising from such remeasurements are recognised 2017 restatement in profit or loss.
Following the FRCs review of the Companys 2017 Annual Report, The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the 2017 income statement and cash flow statement have been restated as follows: The fair value of the consideration transferred: plus In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale The recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the and Discontinued Operations, paragraph 33, the comparative acquiree: plus figures have been restated to show the profit on sale of If the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair Mouchel Consulting 40.0m and associated tax credit value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less 1.1m within non-underlying discontinued, rather than nonThe net recognised amount generally fair value of the underlying continuing operations.
In addition, the Directors identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
have concluded that the operating results of Biogen should have been classified as continuing in the comparative figures.
When the result is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised The prior year figures have not been restated to reflect this immediately in the income statement.
on the grounds of materiality.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
124 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 124 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The consideration transferred does not include amounts related Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which it to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are is incurred.
generally recognised in the income statement.
Costs related to Non-underlying items the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt Certain items are presented separately in the consolidated income or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a statement as non-underlying items where, in the judgement of the business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent Directors, they need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent presentation of the Groups underlying business performance.
consideration are recognised in the income statement unless the contingent consideration is classified as equity, in which Examples of material items which may give rise to disclosure as case settlement is accounted for within reserves.
non-underlying items include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, gains or losses on closure of businesses, costs of Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary restructuring and reorganisation of existing businesses, certain to ensure consistency with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group material and one-off provisions, integration of newly acquired transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated businesses, asset impairments and acquisition transaction on consolidation.
costs and unwind of discounts.
b Joint arrangements Amortisation of acquired intangible assets and certain financing A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group costs are also treated as non-underlying items so that the underlying undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control with profit of the Group can be measured on a comparable basis from third parties.
The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the These are examples, and from time to time it may be appropriate equity method.
Under this method the Groups share of the profits to disclose further items as non-underlying in order to highlight the less losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated underlying performance of the Group.
income statement and its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
Where the share Underlying operating profit is one of the key measures used by the of losses exceeds the Groups interest in the entity and there is no Board to monitor the Groups performance.
obligation to fund these losses the carrying amount is reduced to nil, following which no further losses are recognised.
Interest in Revenue and profit recognition the entity is the carrying amount of the investment together with Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the net receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after investment in the entity.
eliminating sales within the Group.
It also includes the Groups proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with other parties.
These fall under the category of joint operations as defined Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: by IFRS 11.
In accordance with IFRS 11, the Group accounts for its a Construction contracts own share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows measured according to the terms of the agreements.
Revenue accrues in line with construction progress which is normally determined by external valuations.
It is the gross value Goodwill and other intangible assets of work carried out for the period to the balance sheet date Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the including retentions.
consideration over the Groups interest in the fair value of the Profits on contracts are calculated in accordance with IAS 11 identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
Industry practice is to assess the Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment estimated final outcome of each contract and recognise the at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit based upon the percentage of completion of the contract at the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The assessment of the final outcome of each goodwill is recognised in the income statement immediately.
On contract is determined by regular review of the revenues and costs disposal of a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, the attributable to complete that contract.
Consistent contract review procedures carrying amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the are in place in respect of contract forecasting.
profit or loss on disposal.
The general principles for profit recognition are as follows: Other intangible assets which comprise contract rights and Profits on short duration contracts are taken when the computer software are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation contract is complete: and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Profits on other contracts are recognised on a percentage expected useful lives of the assets, which are principally as follows: of completion basis when the contracts outcome can be estimated reliably: Contract rights Over the remaining contract life Provision is made for losses incurred or foreseen in bringing Computer software 37 years the contract to completion as soon as they become apparent: Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are Claims receivable are recognised as income when received recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: or certified for payment, except that in preparing contract forecasts to completion, a prudent and reasonable evaluation An asset is created that can be identified: of claims receivable may be included to mitigate foreseeable It is probable that the asset created will generate future losses and only to the extent that there is reasonable economic benefits: and certainty of recovery: and The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Variations and compensation events are included in forecasts to completion when it is considered highly probable that they will be recovered.
125 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 accounting policy on recognising revenue on construction contracts 1 Significant accounting policies continued see above.
Operation or service revenue is recognised in the Percentage completion is normally calculated by taking certified period in which the services were provided by the Group.
When value to date as a percentage of estimated final value, unless the the Group provides more than one service in a service concession internal value is materially different to the certified value, in which agreement, the consideration received is allocated by reference to case the internal value is used.
the relative fair values of the services delivered.
b Services Pre-contract costs Revenue and profit from services rendered, which include facilities Costs associated with bidding for contracts pre-contract costs are management, highways maintenance, street cleaning and recycling, written off as incurred.
When it is probable that a contract will be is recognised as and when the service is provided as opposed to awarded, usually when the Group has secured preferred bidder Construction contracts that are required on stage of completion.
status, costs incurred from that date to the date of financial close Where revenue that has been recognised is subsequently are carried forward in the balance sheet as other receivables.
determined not to be recoverable due to a dispute with the When financial close is achieved on PFI or Public Private Partnership client, these amounts are charged against the revenue recognised.
PPP contracts, costs are recovered from the special purpose Where non-recovery is as a result of inability of a client to meet its vehicle and pre-contract costs within this recovery that were not obligations, these amounts are charged to administrative expenses.
previously capitalised are credited to the income statement, except Unbilled revenue is the difference between the revenue recognised to the extent that the Group retains a share in the special purpose and the amounts actually invoiced to customers.
The amount not credited is deferred and recognised over exceeds the amount of revenue recognised these amounts are the life of the construction contract to which the costs relate.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Service contracts are reviewed monthly to assess their future Depreciation is based on historical or deemed cost, including operational performance and profitability.
Where a loss-making expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the contract is identified, the net present value of the total projected items, less the estimated residual value, and the estimated contracted loss is provided for as an onerous contract.
economic lives of the assets concerned.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible assets are depreciated to residual c Private housing and land sales values in equal annual instalments over the period of their Revenue from housing sales is recognised at the fair value of estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows: the consideration received or receivable on legal completion, net of incentives.
Revenue from land sales and land exchanges is Freehold land and 2550 years recognised on the unconditional exchange of contracts.
Profit is buildings recognised on a site-by-site basis by reference to the expected outLeasehold buildings and Period of lease turn result from each site.
The principal estimation technique used improvements by the Group in attributing profit on sites to a particular period is Plant and equipment 312 years the preparation of forecasts on a site-by-site basis.
These focus including vehicles on revenues and costs to complete and enable an assessment to be made of the final out-turn on each site.
Consistent review Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter procedures are in place in respect of site forecasting.
Provision is of the term of the lease or the expected useful life of the asset.
made for any losses foreseen in completing a site as soon as they become apparent.
Leases Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all of the d Property development risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
On Revenue in respect of property developments is recorded on initial recognition the leased asset is measured at an amount equal unconditional exchange of contracts on disposal of finished to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum developments.
Profit taken is subject to any amounts necessary to lease payments.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is cover residual commitments relating to development performance.
accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable Provision is made for any losses foreseen in completing a to that asset.
development as soon as they become apparent.
Other leases are operating leases, and the rental charges are Where developments are sold in advance of construction being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the completed, revenue and profit are recognised from the point of life of each lease.
sale and as the significant outstanding acts of construction and development are completed.
If a development is sold in advance Employee benefits of the commencement of construction, no revenue or profit is a Retirement benefit obligations recognised at the point of sale.
Revenue and profit are recognised For defined contribution pension schemes operated by the in line with the progress on construction, based on the percentage Group, amounts payable are charged to the income statement completion of the construction and development work.
development is sold during construction but prior to completion, revenue and profit are recognised at the time of sale in line with the The Group accounts for defined benefit obligations in accordance percentage completion of the construction and development works with IAS 19.
Obligations are measured at discounted present value at the time of sale and thereafter in line with the percentage of while plan assets are measured at fair value.
The operating and completion of the construction and development works.
financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: current service costs are spread systematically e Private Finance Initiative PFI service over the lives of employees and financing costs are recognised in concession agreements full in the period in which they arise.
Remeasurements of the net Revenue relating to construction or upgrade services under a defined pension liability, including actuarial gains and losses, are service concession agreement is recognised based on the stage recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
of completion of the work performed, consistent with the Groups 126 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 126 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The net finance cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to Foreign currencies the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at of plan assets.
This cost is included in finance costs in the the exchange rates in effect when they take place.
foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange Where the calculations result in a surplus to the Group, the differences arising from foreign currency transactions are reflected recognised asset is limited to the present value of any available in the income statement.
future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary b Share-based payments economic environment in which each entity operates the functional Share-based payments granted but not vested are valued at the fair currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in value of the shares at the date of grant.
This affects the Sharesave GBP, which is the Groups presentation currency.
and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP schemes.
The fair value of these schemes at the date of award is calculated using the BlackThe assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are Scholes model apart from the total shareholder return element of translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
the LTIP which is based on a Stochastic model.
Trading profits or losses are translated at average rates prevailing during the accounting period.
Differences on exchange arising The cost to the Group of awards to employees under the LTIP from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary scheme is spread on a straight-line basis over the relevant undertakings at the year-end rates are recognised in other performance period.
The scheme awards to senior employees comprehensive income.
All other translation differences are a number of shares which will vest after three years if particular reflected in the income statement.
The cost of the scheme is based on the fair value of the shares at the date the options are granted.
Mining assets Opencast expenditure incurred prior to the commencement of Shares purchased and held in trust in connection with the Groups operating an opencast site is capitalised and the cost less the share schemes are deducted from retained earnings.
No gain or residual value is depreciated over the coaling life of the site on loss is recognised within the income statement on the market a coal extraction basis.
value of these shares compared with the original cost.
The cost of restoration is recognised as a provision as soon as Finance income and costs the restoration liability arises.
The amount provided represents the Interest receivable and payable on bank balances is credited or present value of the anticipated costs.
Costs are charged against charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective the provision as incurred and the unwinding of the discount is interest rate method.
A tangible asset is created for an amount equivalent to the initial provision and depreciated on a Borrowing costs are capitalised where the Group constructs coal extraction basis over the life of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Where there is a subsequent change to the estimated restoration costs or discount rate, the present value of the change is Borrowing costs incurred within the Groups jointly controlled recognised as a change in the restoration provision with a entities relating to the construction of assets in PFI and PPP corresponding change in the cost of the tangible asset until the projects are capitalised until the relevant assets are brought asset is fully depreciated when the remaining adjustment is taken into operational use.
Notional interest payable, representing the unwinding of the Inventories discount on long-term liabilities, is charged to finance costs.
Inventories, including land held for and in the course of Taxation development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where appropriate, recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it labour and production overheads which have been incurred in relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is bringing the inventories and work in progress to their present recognised in equity.
Cost in certain circumstances also includes notional interest as explained in the accounting policy for finance Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for income and costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Construction work in progress is included within inventories in Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method, providing the balance sheet.
It is measured at cost plus profit less losses for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets recognised to date less progress billings.
If payments received from and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used customers exceed the income recognised, the difference is included for taxation purposes.
The deferred tax provision is based on the within trade and other payables in the balance sheet.
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised, enacted at the balance sheet date.
generally after exchange of unconditional contracts.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
127 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 of supply chain finance is purely to grant subcontractors and 1 Significant accounting policies continued suppliers access to credit and improve their cashflows.
Property inventory, which represents all development land and work in progress, is included at cost less any losses foreseen in The designation in trade payables is due to the assignment of completing and disposing of the development less any amounts invoice rather than a novation, Kier acting as an agent with fees received or receivable as progress payments or part disposals.
related to supply chain finance being borne by the supplier and Where a property is being developed, cost includes cost of the final payment date to the bank being set by Kier with interest acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable accrued for any late payments.
fees, expenses and finance charges net of rental or other income b Cash and cash equivalents attributable to the development.
Where development property is not being actively developed, net rental income and finance costs are Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement comprise taken to the income statement.
cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts where Assets held for sale legal right of set off exists.
Bank overdrafts are included within Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their financial liabilities in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
c Bank and other borrowings Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be Interest-bearing bank and other borrowings are recorded at the fair recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption probable, and the assets are available for sale in their present and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in condition.
the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that Share capital they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded as the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental d Private Finance Initiative PFI assets issue costs.
Under the terms of a PFI or similar project, where the risks and rewards of ownership remain largely with the purchaser of Provisions the associated services, the Groups interest in the asset is Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or classified as a financial asset and included at its amortised constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is cost within investment in joint ventures.
Significant accounting probable that an outflow will be required to settle the obligation and policies continued.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
e Derivative financial instruments Contingent liabilities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that The Group discloses a contingent liability in circumstances where the contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured in it has a possible obligation depending on whether some uncertain future periods at their fair value.
The method of recognising the future event occurs, or has a present obligation but payment is not resulting change in fair value depends on whether the derivative probable, or the amount cannot be measured reliably.
is designated as a hedging instrument and whether the hedging Government grants relationship is effective.
Government grant income is recognised at the point that there is For cash flow hedges the effective part of the change in fair value reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions of these derivatives is recognised directly in other comprehensive attached to it, and that the grant will be received.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to Financial instruments the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the affect profit or loss.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives is the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate contractual provisions of the instrument.
An assessment of the derivatives at the balance sheet date.
whether a financial asset is impaired is made at least at each reporting date.
The principal financial assets and liabilities of If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge the Group are as follows: accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or a Trade receivables and trade payables loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast Given the varied activities of the Group it is not practicable to transaction occurs.
The Group has therefore allocated receivables and payables due within 12 months of The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge against the balance sheet date to current with the remainder included transactional foreign currency exposures.
In cases where these in non-current.
derivative instruments are significant, hedge accounting is applied as described above.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their changes in fair value of derivatives are recognised in the initial cost reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated income statement.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a particularly in respect of land purchases, are discounted and significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying recorded at their present value.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year Amounts owing under supply chain finance arrangements are are as follows: included within trade payables rather than bank debt.
The purpose 128 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 128 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements a Revenue and profit recognition c Valuation of land and work in progress The estimation techniques used for revenue and profit recognition in The inventory balance includes 60m 2017: 47m relating to ten respect of property development, private housing sales, construction 2017: eight land sites acquired for development as residential contracts and services contracts require forecasts to be made of the sites, on which development has been temporarily suspended.
These outcome of long-term contracts which require assessments and assets are accounted for as work in progress in the balance sheet judgements to be made on the recovery of pre-contract costs, and are carried at net book value, representing the lower of cost and changes in the scope of work, contract programmes, maintenance net realisable value in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories, para 9. and defects liabilities and changes in costs.
The net realisable value of the land is a key estimate.
In arriving b Construction contracts at this value, management must make two key estimations for each site: Over 500 Construction contracts 2017: over 500 were income generating during the year.
Of these, three 2017: six individually An estimation of the costs to complete had a material impact on operating profit.
An estimation of the remaining revenue The key judgements and estimates relating to determining the In making these estimations, management uses both extensive inrevenue and profit of these material contracts are: house experience and market research conducted by third-party costs to complete experts.
Across the sites, for net realisable value to drop below cost, development costs would need to increase by over 5.4% achieving the planned build programme 2017: 3.9% or the gross development value would need to recoverability of claims and variations decrease by more than 4.0% 2017: 3.7%.
each contract is treated on its merits and subject to a regular The classification of these assets as inventory is a key judgement.
review of the revenue and costs to complete that contract, In making that judgement, management considers both the Groups determined by a combination of management judgement and intention and ability to develop the sites, driven by required levels external professional assistance, backed up by judgements of return on capital.
The key judgement in arriving at the life time papers for the contracts that have a material impact on the margin is the build rate and sales rate.
The build rate is determined income statement.
by our proven ability to build at a rate on local sites and the sales rate is defined with reference to external market research.
These The level of estimation uncertainty in our Construction business factors can combine in sales rates being currently below what is is reduced by the effect of its substantial portfolio and significant required to provide a sufficient return on capital, leading to the experience of the divisions management team.
The level of decision to temporarily suspend development.
estimation is further reduced by the combination of the modest scale and short contract durations of our projects.
Nevertheless, the In the event that those sites were not developed by the Group profit recognition in our Construction business is a key estimate, and disposed of, a value below current net realisable value may due to the inherent uncertainties in any construction project over be realised.
Over the last three years, two developments were disposed of or The level of estimation and uncertainty differs between our work commenced where it had previously been suspended.
Construction businesses, particularly between UK Building and Infrastructure.
UK Building operates around 400 sites each year with d Environmental Services contracts an average project size of 7-8m.
These projects typically operate The key sensitivity in our onerous contract provision calculation under framework contracts where costs are known with a greater is future recyclate prices.
A reasonably likely change would be an degree of certainty.
Infrastructure manages around 50 sites with increase or decrease of 20% in assumed recyclate prices, which projects ranging from a relatively small number of higher value major as at 30 June 2018 would decrease or increase respectively the Infrastructure Civil Engineering projects to a larger number of more onerous contract provision required at that date by 1.8m.
A key modest minor signalling upgrades and replacements.
judgement is that we will exit certain contracts before the end of the contracted period.
The major Infrastructure Civil Engineering Projects typically include Design and Build, Construct only and Lump Sum contracts.
The e Life cycle assets nature and length of these contracts means there can be a greater The key sensitivity in our calculation is the percentage of the funds level of estimation and uncertainty.
The blended portfolio risk of the build-up required for future maintenance.
A reasonably likely change overall Construction business is mitigated by the relative sizes of would be an increase or decrease of 10% in the percentage of funds the UK Building and Infrastructure businesses.
Such a change would result in a profit impact of approximately 1m in any one year.
Our Construction revenue for the year is 2.0bn 2017: 2.0bn with an associated margin of 2.0% 2017: 2.0%.
The historic profit f Defined benefit pension scheme valuations margins in our Construction business typically range from 1.8% to In determining the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme 2.8%.
We therefore determined that a potential downside risk in assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been margin would be 0.2%.
Given the short-term average duration made.
The key assumptions, which are given below, are largely approximately 12 months of our Construction portfolio, the impact dependent on factors outside the control of the Group: of such a change across our projects in delivery at the year end would be an impact on operating profit of 2.0m 2017: 2.0m.
Expected return on plan assets: Inflation rate: Mortality: Discount rate: and Salary and pension increases.
Details of the assumptions used and sensitivity to changes in these assumptions are included in note 8.
129 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 1 Significant accounting policies continued 2 Segmental reporting g Goodwill The Group operates four divisions: Property, Residential, Construction and Services, which is the basis on which the Group Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation manages and reports its primary segmental information.
Corporate of the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which the includes unrecovered overheads and the charge for defined benefit goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires pension schemes.
an estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and the application of a Segmental information is based on the information provided to the suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value.
Chief Executive, together with the Board, who is the chief operating Cash flow forecasts for the next three years are based on the decision maker.
The segments are strategic business units which Groups budgets and forecasts.
Other key inputs in assessing each have different core customers and offer different services.
The CGU are revenue growth, operating margin and discount rate.
The segments are discussed in the Chief Executives strategic review assumptions are set out in note 12 together with an assessment on pages 14 to 19 and the divisional reviews on pages 44 to 49. of the impact of reasonably possible sensitivities.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same h Joint ventures as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies In accordance with IFRS 11 para 7, joint ventures are identified on pages 123 to 130.
The Group evaluates segmental information where the control of an arrangement is shared and decisions around on the basis of profit or loss from operations before non-underlying activities require unanimous consent if the action significantly items, interest and income tax expense.
The segmental results that affects the investees return.
The key judgement involved in are reported to the Chief Executive include items directly attributable determining joint control is that the board structure and the to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a mechanisms, including deadlock mechanisms, in the reserved reasonable basis.
matters do not give any one party majority control over relevant activities, regardless of the economic split between partners.
i Non-underlying items Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Determining whether an item is part of underlying or non-underlying items requires judgement.
A total non-underlying cost of 25.1m after tax was charged to the income statement for the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: 88.3m.
The items that comprise this are set out in note 4 together with an explanation of their nature.
130 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 130 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Segmental reporting Year to 30 June 2018 Property Residential Construction Services Corporate Group Continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue Group and share of joint ventures 218.0 374.3 2,052.5 1,848.5 4,493.3 Less share of joint ventures 139.1 131.4 2.7 273.2 Group revenue 78.9 242.9 2,052.5 1,845.8 4,220.1 Profit Group operating profit loss 6.5 8.3 41.9 91.9 34.8 113.8 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 24.8 17.6 0.3 42.7 Profit on disposal of joint ventures 2.7 0.8 3.5 Underlying operating profit loss 34.0 25.9 41.9 93.0 34.8 160.0 2 Underlying net finance costs income 3.7 8.3 5.5 3.7 12.9 23.1 Underlying profit loss before tax 30.3 17.6 47.4 89.3 47.7 136.9 Non-underlying items Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights 0.1 0.4 25.1 25.6 Non-underlying finance costs 1.4 3.7 5.1 Profit loss before tax from continuing operations 30.2 17.6 45.6 60.5 47.7 106.2 Balance sheet Total assets excluding cash 265.5 337.0 570.2 700.7 603.8 2,477.2 Liabilities excluding borrowings 44.0 156.6 831.4 587.0 69.3 1,688.3 3 Net operating assets liabilities 221.5 180.4 261.2 113.7 534.5 788.9 Cash, net of borrowings, net of hedge effects 131.2 150.6 329.8 89.3 323.0 185.7 Net assets excluding net liabilities held for 90.3 29.8 68.6 203.0 211.5 603.2 sale Net liabilities held for sale 2.1 2.1 Net assets 90.3 29.8 68.6 200.9 211.5 601.1 Other information 4 Inter-segmental revenue 2.2 72.7 10.1 85.0 Capital expenditure 2.6 6.2 13.3 22.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 5.7 7.9 5.3 19.1 Amortisation of computer software 0.9 0.9 12.1 13.9 Geographical split of Revenue United Kingdom 218.0 374.3 1,925.2 1,734.6 4,252.1 Americas 7.7 7.7 Middle East 114.8 114.8 Far East & Australia 4.8 113.9 118.7 Total continuing operations 218.0 374.3 2,052.5 1,848.5 4,493.3 1 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue and before non-underlying items including Mining revenue of 19.5m.
2 Interest was charged credited to the divisions at a notional rate of 4.0%.
3 Net operating assets liabilities represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest-bearing inter-company loans.
4 Inter-segmental pricing is determined on an arms length basis.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 131 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 2 Segmental reporting continued Year to 30 June 2017 5 6 Property Residential Construction Services Corporate Group Continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue Group and share of joint ventures 182.0 375.7 2,019.4 1,688.1 4,265.2 Less share of joint ventures 117.3 27.6 8.6 153.5 Group revenue 64.7 348.1 2,019.4 1,679.5 4,111.7 Profit Group operating profit loss 18.8 39.8 86.4 29.8 115.2 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures 20.4 4.0 0.6 25.0 Profit on disposal of joint ventures 5.4 5.4 Underlying operating profit loss 25.8 22.8 39.8 87.0 29.8 145.6 2 Underlying net finance costs income 5.0 8.9 5.5 4.3 6.8 19.5 Underlying profit loss before tax 20.8 13.9 45.3 82.7 36.6 126.1 Non-underlying items Amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights 0.1 0.4 21.8 22.3 Non-underlying finance costs 0.4 2.5 2.9 Other non-underlying items 7.6 2.2 89.5 10.7 5.1 115.1 Profit loss before tax from continuing operations 13.1 11.7 45.0 47.7 41.7 14.2 Balance sheet Total assets excluding cash 197.3 295.2 625.7 441.3 717.3 2,276.8 Liabilities excluding borrowings 53.9 131.2 656.1 582.9 231.2 1,655.3 3 Net operating assets liabilities 143.4 164.0 30.4 141.6 486.1 621.5 Cash, net of borrowings, net of hedge effects 75.1 134.5 280.0 116.8 297.3 110.1 Net assets liabilities 68.3 29.5 249.6 24.8 188.8 511.4 Other information 4 Inter-segmental revenue 3.1 6.6 77.9 13.3 100.9 Capital expenditure 0.5 0.2 5.4 4.3 5.4 15.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 2.6 11.1 5.7 19.6 Amortisation of computer software 0.8 0.4 6.6 7.8 Geographical split of Revenue United Kingdom 182.0 375.7 1,855.5 1,565.5 3,978.7 Americas 8.7 8.7 Middle East 131.0 131.0 Far East & Australia 24.2 122.6 146.8 Total continuing operations 182.0 375.7 2,019.4 1,688.1 4,265.2 1 Revenue is stated after the exclusion of inter-segmental revenue and before non-underlying items including Mining revenue of 17.1m.
3 Net operating assets liabilities represent assets excluding cash, borrowings and interest bearing inter-company loans.
5 Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued operations see note 1.
6 Restated to show pension schemes in surplus and deficit positions separately.
132 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 132 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Profit for the year Profit loss from operations is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 m m Auditors remuneration: Fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: Owned 14.9 13.7 Finance leases 4.2 6.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 39.5 30.1 Negative goodwill recognised 2.6 Impairment of non-current assets 0.6 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.1 Hire of plant and machinery 111.3 98.9 Operating lease rentals: Land and buildings 15.0 11.4 Plant and machinery 29.4 36.2 Research and Development Expenditure Credit receivable 8.8 4.0 The Auditors remuneration relate to amounts paid to  LLP.
A summary of other services provided by  LLP during the year is provided on page 80.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 133 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 4 Non-underlying items Profit loss before taxation is stated after charging crediting: 1 2018 2017 m m Portfolio simplification closure of businesses Closure of Hong Kong operations and related contracts 26.3 Closure of Caribbean operations and related contract final accounts 60.4 Portfolio simplification sale of assets and other M&A activity Loss on disposal of Biogen 7.6 Other M&A gains, losses and costs 5.5 Other non-underlying costs Provision relating to Environmental Services contracts, recyclate costs, and curtailment of contracts 11.1 Provision for Health, Safety and Environmental HSE incidents arising from revised sentencing guidelines 8.0 Establishment of Cross Keys Homes joint venture 2.2 Pension curtailment gain 6.0 Total other non-underlying items 115.1 Amortisation of intangible contract rights 25.6 22.3 Financing costs 5.1 2.9 Total non-underlying items 30.7 140.3 Associated tax credit 5.6 10.9 Charged against profit for the year from continuing operations 25.1 129.4 Discontinued operations Gain relating to the disposal of Mouchel Consulting 40.0 Income tax credit on disposal of discontinued operations 1.1 Non-underlying items from discontinued operations 41.1 Charged against profit for the year 25.1 88.3 1 Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued operations see note 1.
Classification of items as non-underlying In classifying items as non-underlying, management are required to make judgements as to whether an item meets the criteria set out in our accounting policy on page 125, including whether by their size, nature or incidence they need to be disclosed separately in order to obtain a clear, consistent view of the Groups underlying business performance.
In the current year and prior year the following items have been classified as non-underlying: Amortisation of intangible assets and discount unwind of acquisition related fair value adjustments and deferred consideration these have been classified in non-underlying in accordance with our accounting policy on page 125.
The results of the Mining operation which have a net impact of nil 2017: nil on underlying operating profit and associated interest costs continue to be classified as non-underlying as the Group continues to wind down the business.
The 2018 financial year represents a full years trading, however trading is expected to be minimal in future years.
The key judgement in classifying the results as non-underlying is the Directors continued intention to wind the business down.
In addition to the above items, a number of items either relating to costs previously taken through non-underlying or similar in nature to those previously taken through non-underlying, have been taken through underlying in the current year.
This is due to none being of sufficient size or incidence to warrant separate disclosure and the aggregate impact being immaterial.
These items include further costs to close out Hong Kong and the Caribbean 7m, integration costs 2m, offset by negative goodwill and deemed profit on disposal 3m, resulting from acquiring the remaining 50% of a design and facilities management business KBESL, and releases in respect of a small number of immaterial provisions 4m.
The judgements arrived at for each area in 2017 were as follows: Portfolio simplification closure of businesses: the closure and related contract costs in relation to the Caribbean and Hong Kong were classified as non-underlying due to both their size 2017: 86.7m and the fact that they relate to distinct geographies that the Group was exiting.
The Directors judged that, in terms of understanding the underlying, ongoing results of the business, it was important for users of the accounts to understand the impact that the exit of these areas had on the Groups reported numbers.
Portfolio simplification sale of assets and other M&A activity: the Group made two material disposals in the year, which in the judgement of the Directors were sufficiently material to distort the underlying results of the business if not separately identified.
For consistency, 134 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 134 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements a number of smaller transactions and related costs, which in aggregate were material, were also separately identified.
These included a loss on the sale of an international infrastructure joint venture, Saudi Comedat Company Limited.
A number of the Property divisions joint ventures were also disposed of during 2017, a process which is a key component of the divisions ongoing business model.
In the judgement of the Directors such disposals are in the ordinary course of business and therefore were not included in non-underlying.
Other non-underlying costs in reviewing the accounts the Directors judged a number of other items to be non-underlying on the following basis: the provision for HSE claims due to being a one-off cost arising from a change to the regulations in February 2016, a pension curtailment gain on the basis that it was material and one-off in nature all of the Groups other schemes are now closed to future accrual and additional provisions relating to environmental services contracts on the basis both of size and the fact that they relate to legacy contracts that the Group is working to close out.
5 Finance income and costs continuing operations 2018 2017 NonNon- 1 1 Underlying underlying Total Underlying underlying Total m m m m m m Finance income Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.2 0.2 1.0 1.0 Interest receivable on loans to joint ventures 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 1.8 1.8 Finance costs Interest payable and fees on bank overdrafts and loans 2.5 2.5 2.1 2.1 Interest payable on borrowings 17.4 1.4 18.8 16.0 0.4 16.4 Interest payable on finance leases 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Discount unwind 1.5 3.7 5.2 0.6 2.5 3.1 Net interest on net defined benefit obligation 2.2 2.2 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange gains losses on foreign denominated borrowings 1.6 1.6 4.2 4.2 Fair value losses gains on cash flow hedges recycled from Other Comprehensive Income 1.6 1.6 4.2 4.2 24.0 5.1 29.1 21.3 2.9 24.2 Net finance costs 23.1 5.1 28.2 19.5 2.9 22.4 1 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition and interest on UK Mining loan.
6 Information relating to employees 2018 2017 Note No.
Monthly average number of people employed during the year including Executive Directors was: United Kingdom 18,064 15,673 Rest of world 2,000 2,267 20,064 17,940 m m Group staff costs are as follows: United Kingdom 873.3 782.9 Rest of world 53.1 68.9 926.4 851.8 Comprising: 1 Wages and salaries 795.9 744.3 1 Social security costs 76.3 64.1 Defined benefit pension scheme costs 2018 includes curtailment gain of 0.3m: 2017: 6.0m 8 3.0 1.2 Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 8 45.8 41.9 Share-based payments charge 25 5.4 2.7 926.4 851.8 1 Prior year numbers have been reclassified for certain costs.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 135 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 7 Information relating to Directors Information relating to Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and LTIP interests appears in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 107 inclusive.
8 Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of pension schemes for eligible employees as described below.
For the defined benefit schemes, the assets of all schemes are held in trust separate from the assets of the Group.
The Trustees are responsible for investing the assets and delegate day-to-day decisions to independent professional investment managers.
The schemes are established under UK trust law and have a corporate trustee that is required to run the schemes in accordance with the schemes Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with all relevant legislation.
Responsibility for the governance of the schemes lies with the Trustees.
The Group has agreed deficit recovery plans with the trustees of each of its defined benefit schemes which constitute minimum funding requirements for the purposes of IFRIC 14.
These minimum funding requirements do not give rise to any additional liabilities on the Groups balance sheet as the Group has determined that it has a right to benefit from any surplus created by overpaid contributions, through either a reduction in future contributions or refunds of the surpluses on winding up of the schemes.
Details of the contributions agreed for each of the schemes are provided in the individual scheme information sections below.
The majority of these deficit payment plans include lump sum contributions payable on 1 July 2020 that have been guaranteed by surety bonds.
The pension obligations of the Group are valued separately for accounting and funding purposes.
The accounting valuations under IAS 19 require best estimate assumptions to be used whereas the funding valuations use more prudent assumptions.
A further difference arises from the differing dates of the valuations.
The accounting pension deficit or surplus is calculated at the balance sheet date 30 June each year, whereas the actuarial valuations are carried out on a triennial basis at 31 March.
The differing bases and timings of the valuations can result in materially different pension deficit amounts.
The date of the latest triennial funding valuation for each scheme is noted in the individual scheme information sections below.
Kier Group scheme This is the principal scheme and includes a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section of the scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 January 2002: existing members continued to accrue benefits for service until the scheme was closed to future accrual on 28 February 2015.
The most recent triennial valuation of the Kier Group scheme was carried out by the trustees independent actuaries as at 31 March 2016.
At the valuation date the pension schemes assets were less than the technical provisions and therefore the scheme was in deficit.
The contributions paid during the year were 13.4m 2017: 16.9m which included contributions of 13.1m 2017: 15.5m to fund the past service deficit.
In July 2017, the Group agreed a revised deficit recovery plan with the schemes trustees.
Based on this payment plan the Group expects to make the following contributions over the next five years: 1 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 m m m m m Deficit contributions 12.2 12.4 29.2 16.5 6.9 1 The contributions for the year ended 30 June 2021 include a one-off lump sum payment of 13.4m, which is guaranteed by a surety bond.
In addition to the above contributions, the Group has agreed to meet the schemes expenses including the Pension Protection Fund levy.
As at 30 June 2018 the scheme had 443 employed deferred members, 2,271 deferred members and 2,805 retirees.
The IAS 19 accounting valuation of the Kier Group scheme at 30 June 2018 indicated that the schemes assets exceeded its liabilities.
The Group has recognised the surplus as a retirement benefit pension asset on its balance sheet under IAS 19 and IFRIC 14, as the Group has determined that it has a right to benefit from any surplus, through either reduced contributions or a refund of the surplus on winding up of the scheme.
Other defined benefit schemes Acquired with the May Gurney Group The May Gurney defined benefit scheme was acquired with May Gurney in the year to 30 June 2014 and is closed to future accrual.
The most recent triennial valuation of the May Gurney scheme was carried out by the trustees independent actuaries as at 31 March 2017.
The deficit contributions payable in the year ended 30 June 2018 amounted to 2.4m 2017: 2.1m.
In June 2018, the Group agreed a revised deficit recovery plan with the trustees of the May Gurney scheme.
Based on this payment plan the Group expects to make the following contributions over the next five years: 1 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 m m m m m Deficit contributions 1.8 2.0 11.8 1 The contributions for the year ended 30 June 2021 include a one-off lump sum payment of 3.0m, which is guaranteed by a surety bond.
As at 30 June 2018, the scheme had 340 deferred members and 278 retirees.
136 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 136 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Acquired with the Mouchel Group The Group acquired four defined benefit pension schemes with the Mouchel Group.
The Mouchel figures comprise four individual pension schemes, Mouchel Superannuation Fund, Mouchel Staff Pension Scheme, Mouchel Business Services Limited Pension Scheme Final Salary Section and EM Highways Prudential Platinum Scheme, which have been grouped together because they were purchased as part of the Mouchel Group.
The composition of these schemes has not changed since the prior year.
These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and were closed to future accrual between 2010 and 2017, with the exception of a single public sector comparable scheme which remains open to future accrual.
Closure of schemes in 2017 gave rise to a curtailment gain of 6.0m.
The Mouchel Superannuation Fund was closed to future accrual of benefits on 1 April 2017.
However, the Group disclosures as at 30 June 2017 did not reflect this event.
As a result, a curtailment gain of 0.3m is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of this scheme at 30 June 2018.
There have been no further amendments, curtailments or settlements within the scheme during the period.
The Mouchel schemes were formally valued by the trustees independent actuaries as at 31 March 2016.
At the valuation date the assets of each of the pension schemes were less than the respective technical provisions for each scheme and therefore the schemes were in deficit.
The deficit contributions payable in the year ended 30 June 2018 amounted to 9.2m 2017: 12.3m which included contributions of 8.3m 2017: 10.7m to fund the past service deficit.
In September 2017, the Group agreed a revised deficit recovery plan with the trustees of the Mouchel schemes.
Based on this payment plan the Group expects to make the following combined contributions over the next five years: 1 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 m m m m m Deficit contributions 8.6 9.2 22.5 15.7 17.1 1 The contributions for the year ended 30 June 2021 include one-off lump sum payments for each of the three principle Mouchel schemes totalling 9.6m, which are guaranteed by surety bonds.
As at 30 June 2018 the schemes had a total of 18 active members, 82 employed deferred members, 1,837 deferred members and 1,491 retirees.
The IAS 19 accounting valuation at 30 June 2018 of the Mouchel Business Services Limited Pension Scheme Final Salary Section and EM Highways Prudential Platinum Scheme indicated that the assets of each of these schemes exceeded their respective scheme liabilities.
The Group has recognised these surpluses as retirement benefit assets on its balance sheet under IAS 19 and IFRIC 14, as the Group has determined that it has a right to benefit from any surplus, through either reduced contributions or a refund of the surpluses on winding up of the schemes.
Acquired with the McNicholas Group The McNicholas defined benefit pension scheme was acquired with the McNicholas Group see note 30.
The scheme is closed to new entrants and no benefits have accrued since 30 April 2012.
The most recent triennial valuation of the McNicholas scheme was carried out by the trustees independent actuaries as at 31 March 2017.
The deficit contributions payable in the year ended 30 June 2018 since acquisition amounted to 1.6m.
In June 2018, the Group agreed a revised deficit recovery plan with the trustees of the McNicholas scheme.
Based on this payment plan the Group expects to make the following contributions over the next five years: 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 m m m m m Deficit contributions 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.0 In addition to the above contributions, all of the schemes expenses including the Pension Protection Fund levy are met by the Group.
As at 30 June 2018 the scheme had a total of 65 deferred members and 78 retirees.
Other defined contribution schemes Contributions are also made to a number of other defined contribution arrangements.
The Group paid contributions of 45.8m 2017: 41.9m during the year to these arrangements.
The Group also makes contributions to local government defined benefit pension schemes in respect of certain employees who have transferred to the Group under TUPE transfer arrangements.
The Group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis and consequently the pension costs for these schemes are treated as if they were defined contribution schemes.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 137 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Retirement benefit obligations continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits disclosures The Group recognises any actuarial gains or losses through the statement of comprehensive income as required under IAS 19.
The average weighted duration of the schemes liabilities is 20 years 2017: 20 years.
The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries are shown below.
This set of assumptions was used to value all of the defined benefit schemes.
2018 2017 % % Rate of increase in pensions payments liable for Limited Price Indexation: RPI subject to a minimum of 0% and a maximum of 5% 3.0 3.1 RPI subject to a minimum of 0% and a maximum of 2.5% 2.1 2.2 Rate of general increases in pensionable salaries 3.0 3.2 Discount rate 2.8 2.7 Inflation rate Retail Price Index RPI 3.0 3.2 Inflation rate Consumer Price Index CPI 1.9 2.1 The assumptions used for the McNicholas scheme at the date of acquisition 12 July 2017 were as follows: rate of increase in pensions payments 3.5%: rate of increase in pensionable salaries was not applicable closed to future accrual : discount rate 2.6%: RPI inflation 3.4%: CPI inflation 2.4%.
The mortality assumptions used were as follows: 2018 2017 years years Life expectancy for a male female currently aged 60 27.4 29.0 27.3 29.4 Kier Group scheme May Gurney scheme 27.1 29.2 26.5 28.8 26.5 28.3 27.0 29.1 Mouchel schemes McNicholas scheme 26.2 28.6 Life expectancy for a male female member aged 60, in twenty years time Kier Group scheme 28.8 30.9 28.7 31.0 May Gurney scheme 28.7 30.8 28.1 30.5 Mouchel schemes 28.0 30.0 28.8 31.1 McNicholas scheme 28.1 30.2 The mortality assumptions for the McNicholas scheme at the date of acquisition 12 July 2017 were that life expectancy for someone aged 60 was 27.0 years for a male and 29.1 years for a female and life expectancy for someone who will reach the age of 60 in twenty years time was 28.8 years for a male and 31.1 years for a female.
The assets, liabilities and net pension liabilities for the defined benefit arrangements are shown below.
The assets are invested with professional investment managers and are measured based on quoted market valuations at the balance sheet date, except for land and property investments that are not held in unitised funds, which are valued based on the latest available professional valuation in accordance with RICS standards.
2018 2017 Kier May Kier May Group Gurney Mouchel Total Group Gurney Mouchel McNicholas Total m m m m m m m m m Equities 442.6 18.4 127.8 588.8 438.2 9.5 100.0 547.7 Corporate bonds 345.6 36.3 8.5 390.4 342.2 42.2 384.4 Cash 56.5 0.8 30.7 0.1 88.1 55.3 1.0 1.7 58.0 Land and property 9.8 5.3 18.7 0.1 33.9 9.8 5.9 17.3 33.0 Absolute return 265.5 6.4 75.5 347.4 262.9 18.2 113.3 394.4 Annuity policies 1.4 1.4 Multi-asset 17.9 14.0 31.9 19.8 19.8 Liability-driven investments 24.9 174.4 199.3 22.5 177.0 199.5 Total market value of assets 1,120.0 75.1 463.4 22.7 1,681.2 1,108.4 76.9 451.5 1,636.8 Present value of liabilities 1,094.8 76.2 472.2 30.1 1,673.3 1,139.5 82.8 499.1 1,721.4 Surplus deficit 25.2 1.1 8.8 7.4 7.9 31.1 5.9 47.6 84.6 Related deferred tax liability asset 4.3 0.2 1.5 1.3 1.3 5.3 1.0 8.1 14.4 Net pension asset liability 20.9 0.9 7.3 6.1 6.6 25.8 4.9 39.5 70.2 138 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 138 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2018 2017 Kier May Kier May Group Gurney Mouchel Total Group Gurney Mouchel McNicholas Total m m m m m m m m m Charged credited to operating profit in the income statement Current service cost 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Administration expenses 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.8 1.0 0.4 0.9 2.3 Past service cost including curtailment gain 0.3 0.3 6.0 6.0 Net interest on net defined benefit obligation 0.7 0.1 1.2 0.2 2.2 0.5 0.1 1.4 2.0 Pension expense income recognised in the income statement 1.0 0.2 1.6 0.2 3.0 1.5 0.5 3.2 1.2 Remeasurement in comprehensive income Actual return in excess of that recognised 15.1 0.8 5.0 0.1 19.2 46.7 4.3 20.9 71.9 in net interest Actuarial gains losses due to changes 56.8 4.0 22.6 1.6 85.0 85.6 5.8 34.5 125.9 in financial assumptions Actuarial losses gains due to changes 26.2 0.4 1.7 0.4 23.7 15.9 8.7 24.6 in demographic assumptions Actuarial losses gains due to liability 1.8 1.0 1.9 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 experience 43.9 2.6 31.2 2.1 79.8 23.0 1.5 4.8 29.3 Total amount recognised in full Changes in the fair value of scheme assets Fair value at 1 July 1,108.4 76.9 451.5 1,636.8 1,065.4 72.4 422.8 1,560.6 Acquired in the year 21.3 21.3 Annuity policies included 1.4 1.4 Interest income on scheme assets 28.9 2.0 11.9 0.6 43.4 29.3 2.0 11.8 43.1 Remeasurement gains losses on scheme 15.1 0.8 5.0 0.1 19.2 46.7 4.3 20.9 71.9 assets Contributions by the employer 13.4 2.4 9.2 1.6 26.6 16.9 2.1 12.3 31.3 Net benefits paid out 45.5 6.7 13.8 0.7 66.7 48.9 3.5 15.4 67.8 Administration expenses 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.8 1.0 0.4 0.9 2.3 1,120.0 75.1 463.4 22.7 1,681.2 1,108.4 76.9 451.5 1,636.8 Fair value at 30 June Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation Fair value at 1 July 1,139.5 82.8 499.1 1,721.4 1,088.9 78.4 481.1 1,648.4 Acquired in the year 32.2 32.2 Annuity policies included 1.4 1.4 Current service cost 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Interest expense on scheme liabilities 29.6 2.1 13.1 0.8 45.6 29.8 2.1 13.2 45.1 Past service cost including curtailment gain 0.3 0.3 6.0 6.0 Actuarial gains losses due to changes 56.8 4.0 22.6 1.6 85.0 85.6 5.8 34.5 125.9 in financial assumptions Actuarial losses gains due to changes 26.2 0.4 1.7 0.4 23.7 15.9 8.7 24.6 in demographic assumptions Actuarial losses gains due to liability 1.8 1.0 1.9 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 experience 48.9 3.5 15.4 67.8 Net benefits paid out 45.5 6.7 13.8 0.7 66.7 1,094.8 76.2 472.2 30.1 1,673.3 1,139.5 82.8 499.1 1,721.4 Fair value at 30 June Amounts included in the balance sheet Fair value of scheme assets 1,120.0 75.1 463.4 22.7 1,681.2 1,108.4 76.9 451.5 1,636.8 Net present value of the defined benefit 1,094.8 76.2 472.2 30.1 1,673.3 1,139.5 82.8 499.1 1,721.4 obligation 25.2 1.1 8.8 7.4 7.9 31.1 5.9 47.6 84.6 Net surplus deficit Related deferred tax liability asset 4.3 0.2 1.5 1.3 1.3 5.3 1.0 8.1 14.4 20.9 0.9 7.3 6.1 6.6 25.8 4.9 39.5 70.2 Net pension asset liability Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 139 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Retirement benefit obligations continued The net surplus deficit above is split between retirement benefit assets and obligations in the statement of financial position as follows: 1 2018 2017 Kier May Kier May Group Gurney Mouchel Total Group Gurney Mouchel McNicholas Total m m m m m m m m m Retirement benefit assets 25.2 14.3 39.5 4.6 4.6 Retirement benefit obligation 1.1 23.1 7.4 31.6 31.1 5.9 52.2 89.2 Net surplus deficit 25.2 1.1 8.8 7.4 7.9 31.1 5.9 47.6 84.6 1 The comparative figures in the balance sheet have been restated to show retirement benefit assets of 4.6m and liabilities of 89.2m separately.
These were previously shown net.
The movements in the net retirement benefit surplus deficit are summarised as follows: 2018 2017 Kier May Kier May Group Gurney Mouchel Total Group Gurney Mouchel McNicholas Total m m m m m m m m m Opening net deficit 31.1 5.9 47.6 84.6 23.5 6.0 58.3 87.8 Acquired deficit 10.9 10.9 Current service cost 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Administration expenses 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.8 1.0 0.4 0.9 2.3 Past service cost including curtailment gain 0.3 0.3 6.0 6.0 Net interest on net defined benefit obligation 0.7 0.1 1.2 0.2 2.2 0.5 0.1 1.4 2.0 Contributions by the employer 13.4 2.4 9.2 1.6 26.6 16.9 2.1 12.3 31.3 Actual return in excess of that recognised 15.1 0.8 5.0 0.1 19.2 46.7 4.3 20.9 71.9 in net interest Actuarial gains losses due to changes 56.8 4.0 22.6 1.6 85.0 85.6 5.8 34.5 125.9 in financial assumptions Actuarial losses gains due to changes in demographic assumptions 26.2 0.4 1.7 0.4 23.7 15.9 8.7 24.6 Actuarial losses gains due to liability experience 1.8 1.0 1.9 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 Net surplus deficit 25.2 1.1 8.8 7.4 7.9 31.1 5.9 47.6 84.6 History of experience gains and losses for defined benefit schemes in aggregate: 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 1,681.2 1,636.8 1,560.6 1,342.1 911.7 Net present value of the defined benefit obligation 1,673.3 1,721.4 1,648.4 1,495.7 971.5 Net surplus deficit 7.9 84.6 87.8 153.6 59.8 Related deferred tax liability asset 1.3 14.4 15.8 30.7 11.9 Net pension asset liability 6.6 70.2 72.0 122.9 47.9 Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 19.2 71.9 210.2 66.3 44.0 Experience losses gains on scheme liabilities 0.7 0.1 4.9 8.7 Risk exposure As IAS 19 actual assumptions are driven by market conditions, there is a risk that significant changes in financial market conditions could lead to volatility in the defined benefit obligation disclosed in the balance sheet from year to year.
In addition, the asset position may also be volatile as it will be influenced by changes in market conditions.
However, the risk of significant changes to the overall balance sheet position has been mitigated to an extent due to the asset hedging strategies in place for the schemes as described below.
The Kier Group scheme invests in a portfolio of instruments managed by BMO including cash, physical gilts, gilt repurchase agreements as well as interest and inflation swaps.
In combination, this portfolio is designed to hedge the schemes sensitivity to changes in interest rate and inflation by reference to 100% of the value of the technical provisions liabilities.
The scheme also has a currency hedging strategy in place with SSGA.
As at 31 March 2018 the schemes year end date, this hedges 50% of the schemes exposure to US dollars, euros, yen and Canadian dollars for two equity managers.
In addition, the scheme hedges 100% exposure to two global property and one hedge fund allocation, all denominated in US dollars.
The May Gurney scheme invests in a set of liability-driven investment funds managed by LGIM.
In combination, these funds are designed to hedge the schemes sensitivity to changes in interest rates and inflation by reference to 80% of the funded economic liabilities: economic liabilities value the schemes liabilities by reference to market implied interest rates.
140 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 140 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Mouchel Superannuation Fund, Mouchel Staff Pension Scheme, Mouchel Business Services Limited Pension Scheme Final Salary Section invest in a set of liability-driven investment funds managed by BMO.
In combination, these funds are designed to hedge the schemes sensitivity to changes in interest rates and inflation by reference to 100% of the funded technical provisions liabilities i. e. 100% of the assets.
Pension sensitivity The following tables show the change in deficit arising from a change in the significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the retirement benefit obligations: Kier Group scheme: 2018 2017 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year m m m m Discount rate -0.25% 44.1 46.9 45.4 48.2 Inflation rate -0.25% 42.9 40.4 43.2 41.5 Members assumed to be one year older younger in age -1 year 36.0 36.2 36.1 36.3 May Gurney defined benefit scheme: 2018 2017 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year m m m m Discount rate -0.25% 3.3 3.5 3.5 3.7 Inflation rate -0.25% 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.2 Members assumed to be one year older younger in age -1 year 2.1 2.5 2.3 2.3 Mouchel defined benefit schemes: 2018 2017 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year m m m m Discount rate -0.25% 21.6 23.0 21.3 22.5 Inflation rate -0.25% 22.1 20.8 22.4 21.2 Members assumed to be one year older younger in age -1 year 15.2 15.2 14.2 14.2 McNicholas defined benefit scheme: 2018 2017 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year 0.25% 1 year -0.25% -1 year m m m m Discount rate -0.25% 1.3 1.4 Inflation rate -0.25% 0.7 0.7 Members assumed to be one year older younger in age -1 year 1.1 1.1 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period and may not be representative of the actual change, which is based on a change in a key assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses did not change compared with the previous period.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 141 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Taxation a Recognised in the income statement 2 2018 2017 NonNonunderlying underlying Underlying items Underlying items 1 1 items note 4 Total items note 4 Total m m m m m m Current tax expense credit UK corporation tax 5.4 1.2 4.2 14.1 7.3 6.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1 2.1 2.1 Foreign tax relief 1.6 1.6 3.9 1.2 2.7 16.2 7.3 8.9 Foreign tax suffered 2.6 2.6 Total current tax 6.5 1.2 5.3 16.2 7.3 8.9 Deferred tax expense credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 21.6 4.4 17.2 8.3 3.6 4.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.0 3.0 0.2 0.2 Rate change effect on deferred tax 1.8 1.8 2.8 2.8 Total deferred tax 16.8 4.4 12.4 5.7 3.6 2.1 Total tax charge credit in the income statement 23.3 5.6 17.7 21.9 10.9 11.0 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Profit loss before tax 136.9 30.7 106.2 126.1 140.3 14.2 Add: tax on joint ventures included above 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 Adjusted profit loss before tax 137.0 30.7 106.3 127.0 140.3 13.3 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.75% 26.0 5.8 20.2 25.1 27.7 2.6 Non-deductible expenses and unusable tax losses 0.7 0.1 0.8 1.8 16.8 18.6 Income not taxable 0.3 0.3 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 1.1 1.1 Effect of change in UK corporation tax rate 1.9 0.1 1.8 2.7 2.7 Share-based payment deduction 1.5 1.5 0.5 0.5 Capital gains not taxed 0.5 0.5 Utilisation of tax losses 0.3 0.3 3.2 3.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.9 2.9 2.3 2.3 Total tax including joint ventures 23.4 5.6 17.8 22.8 10.9 11.9 Tax on joint ventures 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 Group tax charge credit 23.3 5.6 17.7 21.9 10.9 11.0 1 Stated before non-underlying items see note 4.
2 Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued operations see note 1.
Non-underlying items includes significant one-off costs related to restructuring, disposals, acquisitions and business closures.
Amortisation disclosed separately relates to the amortisation of contract right costs held as intangibles on the balance sheet.
Kier Group and its subsidiaries are based predominantly in the UK and are subject to UK corporation tax.
The Group does however, operate and pay taxes in jurisdictions where the tax rate is higher than the UKs statutory rate.
The Group does not have an aggressive tax policy and since 1 July 2012 Kier has not entered into any tax avoidance schemes which were or should have been notified under the Disclosure of Tax Avoidance Scheme DOTAS rules.
The underlying Group tax charge of 23.3m 2017: 21.9m shown in the table above equates to an effective tax rate of 17.0% 2017: 17.2% on adjusted profit before tax of 137.0m 2017: 127.0m.
This effective rate is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 19.00% 2017: 19.75% due to a number of items shown in the table above.
The non-deductible expenses included in underlying items mainly relate to depreciation on non-qualifying assets.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, capital gains arising on disposal of certain investments, including some of the joint ventures disposed of during the year, are not subject to tax.
Tax relief on expenses not recognised in the income statement includes the impact of the tax deduction received in respect of the cost of shares exercised under the Groups employee Save As You Earn Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan.
142 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 142 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable in future periods and such provisions are based on managements assessment of exposure.
At the balance sheet date, a deferred tax liability of 5.5m 2017: 3.7m has been recognised in respect of uncertain tax positions, which includes a non-specific provision of 1.0m 2017: 1.8m.
The net credit charge adjustment of 2.9m 2017: 2.3m in respect of prior years results arises from differences between the estimates of taxation included in the previous years financial statements and the actual tax liabilities calculated in the tax returns submitted to and agreed by HMRC.
In November 2017, UK tax legislation was enacted which resulted in the use of losses since 1 April 2017 becoming more flexible.
As a result of this enactment, and review of carried forward losses, a prior year deferred credit of 5.6m was included in respect of the additional deferred tax assets on losses.
b Recognised in the cash flow statement The cash flow statement shows payments of 9.9m during the year 2017: 3.8m payment.
c Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax expense credit including effect of change in tax rate Share of fair value movements on joint venture cash flow hedging instruments 0.1 0.4 Fair value movements on cash flow hedging instruments 0.3 0.4 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes 13.6 2.1 Total tax charge credit in the statement of comprehensive income 13.4 2.9 The deferred tax movements on the defined benefit pension schemes comprised of 13.6m 2017: 5.8m on current year actuarial movements and nil 2017: 3.7m in respect of the movements in tax rates on which deferred tax is being recognised.
d Factors that may affect future tax charges The deferred tax balance as at the year end has been recognised at 17.0%, which is the enacted corporation tax rate that will be effective from 1 April 2020. e Tax losses At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of 204.5m 2017: 161.6m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised on 39.4m 2017: 10.8m of these losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams against which these losses could be offset.
Under present tax legislation, these losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
10 Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to owners of the parent in the year: 2018 2017 m m Final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2017 of 45.0 pence 2016: 43.0 pence 43.7 41.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 June 2018 of 23.0 pence 2017: 22.5 pence 22.4 21.8 66.1 63.0 The proposed final dividend of 46.0 pence 2017: 45.0 pence bringing the total dividend for the year to 69.0 pence 2017: 67.5 pence had not been approved at the balance sheet date and so has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The dividend totalling circa 44.7m will be paid on 3 December 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 September 2018.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP alternative will be offered.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy, aiming to maintain or grow the dividend each year.
Looking ahead, the Board is committed to a sustainable dividend policy, intending to increase dividend cover towards 2x by 2020 calculated by dividing the underlying earnings per share for the year by the total dividend per share payable in respect of the year, being the interim dividend paid plus the final proposed dividend.
The parent company of the Group, Kier Group plc, is a non-trading holding company which derives its distributable reserves in part from dividends received from its subsidiaries.
In determining the level of dividend payable in any year, in addition to the stated policy, the Board considers a number of other factors, including the following: the level of distributable reserves in the parent company, Kier Group plc: the level of distributable reserves in Kier Group plcs subsidiaries that are available to be distributed to Kier Group plc: the availability of cash resources as disclosed in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements : the Groups borrowing covenants: future cash commitments and investment plans to support the long-term growth of the Group: and potential strategic opportunities under consideration.
The Board reviews the level of distributable reserves in the parent company at least twice a year ahead of announcing proposed interim and final dividends.
As at 30 June 2018 Kier Group plc had distributable reserves of 183.7m 2017: 112.9m.
The dividends payable for the year total 69.0 pence per share on an underlying earnings per share of 116.7 pence, giving a dividend cover of 1.7x.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 143 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 10 Dividends continued Distributable reserves can be significantly impacted by movements in pension liabilities.
The reserves of Kier Group plc are not directly affected by these movements as the pension surpluses and liabilities are on the balance sheets of a certain number of the Companys subsidiaries.
However, movements in the pension liabilities do have an effect on the level of distributable reserves in Kier Group plcs subsidiaries that are available to be paid up to the parent.
Actuarial gains only increase the distributable reserves to the extent that they represent reversals of previous actuarial losses, otherwise they are treated as unrealised and are not distributable.
The ability of the Board to maintain the dividend policy is influenced by a number of the principal risks identified on pages 38 to 43 that could have an adverse effect on the performance of the Group.
However, the Board believes that the Group is well positioned to mitigate these risks and to continue to fund its dividend which remains well covered by profits and cash generated by the business.
11 Earnings per share A reconciliation of profit and earnings loss per share, as reported in the income statement, to underlying profit and earnings per share is set out below.
The adjustments are made to illustrate the impact of non-underlying items.
1 2018 2017 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Earnings loss Continuing operations Earnings loss after tax and minority interests, being net profits losses attributable to equity holders of the parent 88.3 88.3 26.3 26.3 Impact of non-underlying items net of tax: Amortisation of intangible assets net of tax credit of 4.7m 2017: 4.4m 20.9 20.9 17.9 17.9 2 Acquisition discount unwind net of tax credit of 0.9m 2017: 0.5m 2.8 2.8 2.0 2.0 Other non-underlying items net of tax credit of nil 2017: 6.0m 1.4 1.4 109.5 109.5 Earnings from continuing operations 113.4 113.4 103.1 103.1 Discontinued operations Loss after tax and non-controlling interests, being net loss attributable to equity holders of the parent 1.0 1.0 4.1 4.1 Other non-underlying items including tax credit of nil 2017: 1.1m 41.1 41.1 Loss earnings from discontinued operations 1.0 1.0 37.0 37.0 million million million million Weighted average number of shares used for earnings per share 97.2 98.3 96.5 96.5 144 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 144 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 2018 2017 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence Earnings loss per share Continuing operations Earnings loss after tax and minority interests, being net profits losses attributable to equity holders of the parent 90.8 89.8 27.2 27.2 Impact of non-underlying items net of tax: Amortisation of intangible assets 21.5 21.3 18.5 18.5 Acquisition discount unwind 2.9 2.8 2.1 2.1 Other non-underlying items 1.5 1.5 113.4 113.4 Earnings from continuing operations 116.7 115.4 106.8 106.8 Discontinued operations Loss after tax and minority interests, being net profits attributable to equity holders of the parent 1.0 1.0 4.2 4.2 Other non-underlying items 42.5 42.5 Loss earnings from discontinued operations 1.0 1.0 38.3 38.3 Total earnings per share Statutory 89.8 88.8 11.1 11.1 Underlying 115.7 114.4 102.6 102.6 1 Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued operations see note 1.
2 Unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition and interest on UK Mining loan.
In calculating the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares used as the denominator in calculating basic earnings per share has been adjusted by 1.1 million shares 2017: 0.6 million shares in relation to share options.
Options granted to employees under the Sharesave, CSAP and LTIP schemes are considered to be potential ordinary shares.
They have been included in the determination of diluted earnings per share if the required performance obligations would have been met based on the Groups performance up to the reporting date, and to the extent to which they are dilutive.
The options have not been included in the determination of basic earnings per share.
Details relating to the share option schemes are set out in note 25.
In the prior period no adjustment for share options has been made to the weighted average number of ordinary shares because, based on the results for the year, any potential ordinary shares would have been anti-dilutive.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 145 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 12 Intangible assets Intangible Computer 1, 2 Goodwill contract rights software Total m m m m Cost At 1 July 2016 522.8 286.9 67.4 877.1 Additions 44.4 44.4 Disposals 5.4 3.5 14.7 23.6 Transfer from tangible fixed assets 15.1 15.1 At 30 June 2017 517.4 283.4 112.2 913.0 Additions 1.6 39.6 41.2 Acquired 42.8 15.0 57.8 Disposals 25.5 25.5 Transfers to assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 At 30 June 2018 560.2 274.5 151.6 986.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 July 2016 70.7 11.8 82.5 Charge for the year 22.3 7.8 30.1 Disposals 0.3 14.5 14.8 Transfer from tangible fixed asset 12.4 12.4 At 30 June 2017 92.7 17.5 110.2 Charge for the year 25.6 13.9 39.5 Disposals 25.5 25.5 Transfers to assets held for sale 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2018 92.8 31.3 124.1 Net book value At 30 June 2018 560.2 181.7 120.3 862.2 At 30 June 2017 517.4 190.7 94.7 802.8 1 10.2m largely relating to the Groups ERP implementation is under construction and not being amortised 2017: 67.0m.
2 The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the entitys general borrowings during the year, in this case 2.9% 2017: 3.2%.
As a result additions include 1.1m 2017: 1.4m of capitalised borrowing costs.
Goodwill largely relates to the Services cash generating unit CGU.
This has been built up by the acquisition of MRBL Limited Mouchel Group 309.3m, May Gurney Integrated Services PLC 194.7m, Kier Partnership Homes Limited 5.2m, Pure Recycling Limited 4.8m, Kier Energy Solutions Limited previously Beco Limited 2.6m and Southdale 0.8m.
These balances have been subject to an annual impairment review based upon the projected profits of each CGU.
In addition to this, the acquisition in the year relates wholly to McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited 42.8m.
The cost of contract rights relates to: The acquisition of the businesses and assets of the construction and business services operations, some of which had contracts in partnership with their respective councils that have retained a participatory ownership interest and the rights for a minority share in the profits.
These profit shares are reflected in the income statement as minority interests: North Tyneside Council Cost 7.2m.
Stoke-on-Trent City Council Cost nil 2017: 1.9m.
Sheffield City Council Cost nil 2017: 21.3m.
Minority interest profit share nil 2017: nil.
The acquisition of: Stewart Milne Cost 1.0m.
A commercial refuse collections business from Wealdon District Council Cost 3.6m.
May Gurney Integrated Services plc Cost 106.7m.
MRBL Limited Mouchel Group Cost 138.6m.
McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited Cost 12.2m.
Kier Education Services Limited Cost 2.8m.
Certain business and assets of Babcock Civil Infrastructure Limited Cost 1.6m.
Solum Regeneration LLP joint venture Cost 0.4m.
Watford Health Campus LLP joint venture Cost 0.4m.
146 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 146 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Contract rights on May Gurney and Mouchel are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected total contract duration.
All other contract rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining contract life.
Carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible contract rights by CGU 2018 2017 Intangible Intangible contract contract Total Goodwill rights Total Goodwill rights m m m m m m Property 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.6 Residential 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 Construction 12.5 2.6 15.1 12.5 5.3 17.8 Services 498.8 170.2 669.0 498.8 184.9 683.7 1 McNicholas 42.8 8.5 51.3 560.2 181.7 741.9 517.4 190.7 708.1 1 In its first year of trading within the Group, McNicholas has been identified as a separate CGU.
For impairment testing purposes, the goodwill has been allocated to the above five CGUs.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill and intangibles has been determined based on value in use calculations, which use cash flow projections based on the Groups forecasts approved by management, covering a three-year period.
The resulting cash flows are discounted to present value, with the discount rate used in the value in use calculations based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as necessary to reflect the risk associated with the assets being tested.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the forecast revenues and gross margins during the forecast period and the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
Cash flows for periods beyond those forecast have a terminal growth rate assumption applied.
Significant headroom exists in all CGUs and management considers that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not lead to an impairment being recognised.
Services CGU A revenue growth rate of 1.3% and a fixed operating margin of 5.0% have been applied to the Services CGU cash flows into perpetuity.
These assumptions are in line with current trading and current forecasts of UK GDP growth rate.
The pre-tax discount rate used is 9.4%.
Based on the value in use calculation, these assumptions derived a recoverable amount for the Services CGU that is 473.6m above the carrying value of CGU assets.
The Services CGU impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions: discount rate, revenue growth rate and the operating margin, although management does not consider that any reasonable possible change in any single assumption would give rise to an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles.
The assumptions would have to change as follows for any single assumption change to bring headroom down to nil: Discount rate increase from 9.4% to 14.6%: Growth rate reduce from positive 1.3% to negative 4.6%: and Underlying operating margin reduce from 5.0% to 2.7%.
McNicholas CGU A revenue growth rate of 1.3% and a fixed operating margin of 5.0% have been applied to the McNicholas CGU cash flows into perpetuity.
Based on the value in use calculation, these assumptions derived a recoverable amount for the McNicholas CGU that is 130.2m above the carrying value of CGU assets.
The McNicholas CGU impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions: discount rate, revenue growth rate and the operating margin, although management does not consider that any reasonable possible change in any single assumption would give rise to an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles.
The assumptions would have to change as follows for any single assumption change to bring headroom down to nil: Discount rate increase from 9.4% to 29.2%: Growth rate reduce from positive 1.3% to negative 25.7%: and Underlying operating margin reduce from 5.0% to 0.8%.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 147 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 13 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Mining 2 buildings equipment asset Total m m m m Cost At 1 July 2016 67.1 117.4 184.5 Additions 0.4 10.6 4.8 15.8 Disposals 6.5 27.9 34.4 Currency realignment 0.1 0.1 Transfer to intangible fixed assets 15.1 15.1 Transfer from assets held for sale 5.0 5.0 At 30 June 2017 66.0 85.1 4.8 155.9 Additions 9.1 13.0 22.1 Acquired 0.5 4.5 5.0 Disposals 1.1 7.6 8.7 Currency realignment 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2018 74.5 94.9 4.8 174.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 July 2016 15.0 70.2 85.2 Charge for the year continuing operations 3.0 16.6 19.6 discontinued operation 0.1 0.1 Disposals 1.3 25.8 27.1 Currency realignment 0.1 0.1 Transfer to intangible fixed assets 12.4 12.4 At 30 June 2017 16.7 48.8 65.5 Charge for the year continuing operations 1.3 13.2 4.6 19.1 1 Impairment 0.6 0.6 Acquired 0.3 3.0 3.3 Disposals 1.1 4.8 5.9 At 30 June 2018 17.8 60.2 4.6 82.6 Net book value At 30 June 2018 56.7 34.7 0.2 91.6 At 30 June 2017 49.3 36.3 4.8 90.4 1 The 0.6m land impairment is in relation to UK Mining operations.
2 The mining asset represents the stripping activity at the UK Mining operations site.
The asset is depreciated over the expected useful life of the coal that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity.
The net book value of plant and equipment includes an amount of 9.7m 2017: 13.5m in respect of assets held under finance leases see note 21.
148 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 148 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures a Movements in year 2018 2017 m m Investment in joint ventures At 1 July 184.4 129.8 Additions 71.5 94.6 Loan repayments 1.3 Disposals 3.6 37.2 Share of: 1 Operating profit 47.8 26.4 Finance costs 5.0 2.0 Taxation 0.1 0.9 Post-tax results of joint ventures 42.7 23.5 Dividends received 30.5 17.6 Return of equity 40.6 5.6 Items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: 2 Fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments 2.7 2.2 2 Deferred tax on fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments 0.5 0.4 At 30 June 226.1 184.4 b Analysis of investment in and loans to joint ventures 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 86.1 118.2 Other non-current assets 8.7 9.6 Non-current assets 94.8 127.8 Current assets Cash and trade receivables 366.4 245.2 Current assets 366.4 245.2 Total assets 461.2 373.0 Current liabilities Trade and other payables current 35.5 22.2 Borrowings current 16.6 9.2 Current liabilities 52.1 31.4 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 284.5 208.4 Financial instruments 0.2 2.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.5 0.6 Non-current liabilities 285.2 211.4 Total liabilities 337.3 242.8 Net external assets 123.9 130.2 Loans provided to joint ventures 102.2 54.2 Total investments in and loans to joint ventures 226.1 184.4 1 The 2017 comparative includes the share of operating losses from the Biogen joint venture 1.5m, which was included in discontinued operations.
2 2.3m of fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments and 0.4m of deferred tax on fair value movements in cash flow hedging instruments has been recycled to the income statement.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 149 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures continued c Interests in joint ventures Set out below are the joint ventures of the Group as at 30 June 2018 which, in the opinion of the Directors, are material to the Group.
The entities listed below have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares.
All of the entities are private entities and therefore do not have a quoted fair value.
The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
All are measured under the equity method.
% of ownership % of ownership Carrying Carrying Place of business interest interest amount amount country of voting rights voting rights 2018 2017 Name of entity incorporation 2018 2017 Nature of relationship m m 1 Kier Hammersmith England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 8.5 9.0 2 Kier Reading England and Wales 90% 50% 90% 50% Property division 14.7 18.8 3 Kier Trade City England and Wales 90% 50% 90% 50% Property division 4.3 12.3 4 Kier Sydenham England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 11.3 10.5 5 Solum Regeneration England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 30.3 15.1 6 Kier Foley Street England and Wales 90% 50% 90% 50% Property division 22.6 7 Lysander Student Properties England and Wales 75% 50% 75% 50% Property division 6.6 6.3 8 50 Bothwell Street England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 5.4 5.0 9 Kier Newcastle England and Wales 75% 50% 75% 50% Property division 9.8 9.4 10 Kier Southampton England and Wales 75% 50% 75% 50% Property division 9.3 7.0 11 Watford Health Campus England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 2.0 5.4 12 Strawberry Percy England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Property division 3.4 13 Kier Cornwall Street England and Wales 90% 50% Property division 13.5 14 Kier Richmond England and Wales 90% 50% Property division 10.0 15 Kier Cross Keys England and Wales 90% 50% 90% 50% Residential division 59.7 48.5 16 KCK Peterborough England and Wales 90% 50% 90% 50% Residential division 6.6 4.9 Kier Sovereign LLP England and Wales 50% 50% 50% 50% Residential division 5.5 17 Kier Community Living England and Wales 50% 50% Residential division 10.5 Immaterial joint ventures 14.7 9.6 226.1 184.4 1 Kier Hammersmith consists of Kier Hammersmith Holdco Limited and Kier Hammersmith Limited.
2 Kier Reading consists of Kier Reading Holdco 1 LLP, Kier Reading Holdco 2 LLP and Kier Reading LLP.
3 Kier Trade City consists of Kier Trade City Holdco 1 LLP, Kier Trade City Holdco 2 LLP and Kier Trade City LLP.
4 Kier Sydenham consists of Kier Sydenham GP Holdco Limited, Kier Sydenham GP Limited, Kier Sydenham LP and Kier Sydenham Nominee Limited.
5 Solum Regeneration consists of Solum Regeneration Bishops LLP, Solum Regeneration Epsom Limited Partnership, Solum Regeneration Guildford LLP, Solum Regeneration Haywards LLP, Solum Regeneration Kingswood LLP, Solum Regeneration Maidstone LLP, Solum Regeneration Redhill LLP, Solum Regeneration Surbiton LLP, Solum Regeneration Twickenham LLP, Solum Regeneration Walthamstow LLP, Solum Regeneration Epsom GP Subsidiary Limited, Solum Regeneration Epsom GP Limited, Solum Regeneration Epsom Residential LLP, Solum Regeneration Holding 1 LLP and Solum Regeneration Holding 2 LLP.
6 Kier Foley Street consists of Kier Foley Street Holdco 1 LLP, Kier Foley Street Holdco 2 LLP and Kier Foley Street LLP.
7 Lysander Student Properties consists of Lysander Student Properties Investments Limited, Lysander Student Properties Limited and Lysander Student Properties Operations Limited.
8 50 Bothwell Street consists of 50 Bothwell Street Holdco 1 LLP, 50 Bothwell Street Holdco 2 LLP and 50 Bothwell Street LLP.
9 Kier Newcastle consists of Kier Newcastle Investment Limited, Kier Newcastle Operation Limited and Magnetic Limited.
10 Kier Southampton consists of Kier Southampton Development Limited, Kier Southampton Investment Limited and Kier Southampton Operations Limited.
11 Watford Health Campus consists of Watford Health Campus Limited, Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP and Watford Woodlands LLP.
12 Strawberry Percy consists of Strawberry Percy Holdings 1 LLP, Strawberry Percy Holdings 2 LLP and Strawberry Percy LLP.
13 Kier Cornwall Street consists of Kier Cornwall Street Holdings 1 LLP, Kier Cornwall Street Holdings 2 LLP and Kier Cornwall Street LLP.
14 Kier Richmond consists of Kier Richmond Holdings Limited and Kier Richmond Limited.
15 Kier Cross Keys consists of Kier Cross Keys Holdco 1 LLP, Kier Cross Keys Holdco 2 LLP and Kier Cross Keys Dev LLP.
16 KCK Peterborough consists of KCK Peterborough Devco LLP, KCK Peterborough Holdco 1 LLP and KCK Peterborough Holdco 2 LLP.
17 Kier Community Living consists of Kier Community Living Holdco 1 LLP, Kier Community Living Holdco 2 LLP, Kier Community Living LLP, Kier Community Living Topco 1 LLP and Kier Community Living Topco 2 LLP.
150 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 150 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements d Borrowing facilities and guarantees to joint ventures The Group has provided guarantees to support borrowing facilities of joint ventures as follows: 2018 2017 Borrowing Drawn Borrowing Drawn facility Guarantees at 30 June facility Guarantees at 30 June m m m m m m Kier Sydenham LP 43.2 7.5 43.2 44.1 7.5 44.1 Kier Hammersmith Limited 24.1 24.1 24.1 24.1 24.1 22.7 Kier Trade City LLP 12.2 3.6 3.6 5.1 2.2 4.6 Tri-Link 140 LLP 5.5 5.5 4.7 5.5 5.5 4.7 50 Bothwell Street LLP 16.5 16.5 16.5 16.5 16.5 16.5 Solum Regeneration Walthamstow LLP 20.9 3.8 5.0 Solum Regeneration Twickenham LLP 38.2 4.8 3.7 Watford Woodlands 13.7 1.5 0.4 Black Rock Devco LLP 4.6 3.4 0.9 4.6 3.4 3.3 KCK Peterborough Devco LLP 6.7 2.0 1.2 6.7 2.0 3.0 185.6 72.7 103.3 106.6 61.2 98.9 Other than as disclosed above the liabilities of the joint ventures are without recourse to the Group.
Details of the Groups interests in joint ventures are given in note 31.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 151 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures continued e Summarised financial information for joint ventures The tables below provide summarised financial information for those joint ventures that are material to the Group.
The information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and not the Groups share of those amounts.
They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the entity when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments and modifications for differences in accounting policy.
Kier Hammersmith Kier Reading Kier Trade City Kier Sydenham 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Summarised balance sheet Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.2 1.2 5.5 0.4 2.7 1.2 1.5 Other current assets 15.4 16.4 9.2 16.8 0.8 0.5 Current assets 0.4 0.2 16.6 21.9 9.6 19.5 2.0 2.0 Non-current assets 42.3 42.3 66.2 66.2 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 23.8 21.8 3.6 4.6 0.9 0.9 Other current liabilities 2.0 2.7 0.3 1.0 1.2 1.2 2.4 2.1 Total current liabilities 25.8 24.5 0.3 1.0 4.8 5.8 3.3 3.0 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 42.3 44.3 Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities 42.3 44.3 Net assets 16.9 18.0 16.3 20.9 4.8 13.7 22.6 20.9 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Net assets at 1 July 18.0 13.0 20.9 19.3 13.7 11.9 20.9 20.1 Capital introduced 4.8 0.3 Loss profit for the year 1.1 5.0 1.9 1.6 11.2 10.6 2.4 1.5 Other comprehensive income 0.5 0.3 Dividends paid 6.5 24.9 9.1 1.2 1.0 Net assets at 30 June 16.9 18.0 16.3 20.9 4.8 13.7 22.6 20.9 Groups share % 50% 50% 90% 90% 90% 90% 50% 50% Groups share 8.5 9.0 14.7 18.8 4.3 12.3 11.3 10.5 Summarised income statement Revenue 0.3 30.3 16.5 29.6 33.1 3.6 3.7 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation Finance costs 0.8 0.2 1.9 1.7 Taxation 1.0 Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 1.1 5.0 1.9 1.6 11.2 10.6 2.4 1.5 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations Loss profit for the year 1.1 5.0 1.9 1.6 11.2 10.6 2.4 1.5 Other comprehensive income 0.5 0.3 Total comprehensive expense income 1.1 5.0 1.9 1.6 11.2 10.6 2.9 1.8 Dividends received from joint ventures 5.9 22.4 8.2 0.6 0.5 152 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 152 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Lysander Student Solum Regeneration Kier Foley Street Properties 50 Bothwell Street 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.7 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.9 2.0 2.0 Other current assets 71.1 37.8 0.4 88.7 0.2 0.9 1.0 Current assets 71.3 38.5 0.8 88.8 0.6 1.1 2.9 3.0 Non-current assets 22.8 22.4 24.7 24.7 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 49.5 0.5 Other current liabilities 5.3 8.4 0.8 14.2 0.9 0.6 0.1 1.3 Total current liabilities 5.3 8.4 0.8 63.7 0.9 1.1 0.1 1.3 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 5.3 13.7 13.8 16.7 16.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.2 Total non-current liabilities 5.3 13.7 14.0 16.7 16.4 Net assets 60.7 30.1 25.1 8.8 8.4 10.8 10.0 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Net assets at 1 July 30.1 27.2 25.1 23.3 8.4 5.3 10.0 Capital introduced 26.6 3.0 2.6 0.3 9.4 Profit loss for the year 4.0 0.1 1.2 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 Other comprehensive income Dividends paid 26.3 0.3 Net assets at 30 June 60.7 30.1 25.1 8.8 8.4 10.8 10.0 Groups share % 50% 50% 90% 90% 75% 75% 50% 50% Groups share 30.3 15.1 22.6 6.6 6.3 5.4 5.0 Summarised income statement Revenue 12.1 7.2 30.9 56.5 1.8 1.0 1.5 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation Finance costs 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8 Taxation 0.1 0.1 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 4.0 0.1 1.2 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations Profit loss for the year 4.0 0.1 1.2 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income expense 4.0 0.1 1.2 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 Dividends received from joint ventures 23.7 0.2 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 153 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 153 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures continued Kier Newcastle Kier Southampton Watford Health Campus Strawberry Percy 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.1 0.2 1.4 1.5 0.6 Other current assets 30.4 27.0 27.3 9.5 25.8 0.7 13.3 Current assets 30.6 27.1 27.5 9.5 27.2 2.2 13.9 Non-current assets 21.6 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 16.9 13.2 Other current liabilities 0.7 1.4 1.0 0.2 16.7 0.6 0.5 Total current liabilities 17.6 14.6 1.0 0.2 16.7 0.6 0.5 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 14.0 6.4 12.3 6.5 Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities 14.0 6.4 12.3 6.5 Net assets 13.0 12.5 12.5 9.3 4.1 10.9 6.9 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Net assets at 1 July 12.5 8.6 9.3 10.9 2.3 Capital introduced 0.3 3.9 3.2 9.2 9.5 8.7 6.6 Profit loss for the year 0.2 0.1 14.5 0.1 0.3 Other comprehensive income Dividends paid 30.8 Net assets at 30 June 13.0 12.5 12.5 9.3 4.1 10.9 6.9 Groups share % 75% 75% 75% 75% 50% 50% 50% 50% Groups share 9.8 9.4 9.3 7.0 2.0 5.4 3.4 Summarised income statement Revenue 31.5 38.3 0.7 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation Finance costs 0.7 0.1 Taxation Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 0.2 0.1 14.5 0.1 0.3 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations Profit loss for the year 0.2 0.1 14.5 0.1 0.3 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income expense 0.2 0.1 14.5 0.1 0.3 Dividends received from joint ventures 15.4 154 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 154 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Kier Cornwall Street Kier Richmond Kier Cross Keys KCK Peterborough 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m m m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 2.6 3.2 1.6 Other current assets 40.4 22.0 124.3 98.8 5.7 8.2 Current assets 41.6 22.0 126.9 102.0 7.3 8.2 Non-current assets 8.3 10.7 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 0.1 Other current liabilities 1.6 0.6 3.4 0.8 Total current liabilities 1.6 0.6 3.4 0.8 0.1 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 25.0 10.3 65.5 58.0 2.7 Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities 25.0 10.3 65.5 58.0 2.7 Net assets 15.0 11.1 66.3 53.9 7.3 5.4 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Net assets at 1 July 53.9 5.4 Capital introduced 14.5 10.9 49.5 5.3 Profit for the year 0.5 0.2 15.7 4.4 1.9 0.1 Other comprehensive income Dividends paid 3.3 Net assets at 30 June 15.0 11.1 66.3 53.9 7.3 5.4 Groups share % 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% 90% Groups share 13.5 10.0 59.7 48.5 6.6 4.9 Summarised income statement Revenue 1.5 0.3 121.1 29.1 9.8 0.6 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation Finance costs 0.9 0.1 1.8 0.4 0.1 Taxation Profit for the year from continuing operations 0.5 0.2 15.7 4.4 1.9 0.1 Profit for the year from discontinued operations Profit for the year 0.5 0.2 15.7 4.4 1.9 0.1 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 0.5 0.2 15.7 4.4 1.9 0.1 Dividends received from joint ventures 3.0 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 155 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 155 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 14 Investments in and loans to joint ventures continued Kier Sovereign LLP Kier Community Living 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 10.1 Other current assets 11.9 40.4 Current assets 13.2 50.5 Non-current assets 2.4 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 31.5 Other current liabilities 2.2 0.4 Total current liabilities 2.2 31.9 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding trade payables Other non-current liabilities Total non-current liabilities Net assets 11.0 21.0 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Net assets at 1 July Capital introduced 9.6 19.7 Profit for the year 1.4 1.3 Other comprehensive income Dividends paid Net assets at 30 June 11.0 21.0 Groups share % 50% 50% 50% Groups share 5.5 10.5 Summarised income statement Revenue 8.8 7.7 Finance income Depreciation and amortisation Finance costs 0.1 Taxation Profit for the year from continuing operations 1.4 1.3 Profit for the year from discontinued operations Profit for the year 1.4 1.3 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 1.4 1.3 Dividends received from joint ventures 156 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 156 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements f Individually immaterial joint ventures In addition to the interests in joint ventures disclosed above, the Group also has interest in a number of individually immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method.
2018 2017 m m Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint ventures 14.7 9.6 Aggregate amounts of the Groups share of: Profit from continuing operations 1.0 2.9 Post-tax profit or loss from discontinued operations Other comprehensive income expense 1.9 2.0 Total comprehensive income 2.9 0.9 15 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year: Property, Short-term Retirement Intangible plant and temporary benefit Tax assets equipment differences obligations losses Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2016 38.4 25.4 0.3 15.8 4.2 7.3 Credited charged to income statement 5.9 1.4 3.2 3.5 2.4 4.6 Transfers 1.5 4.5 6.0 Charged directly to comprehensive income 0.8 2.1 2.9 At 30 June 2017 32.5 25.5 2.4 14.4 1.8 11.6 Credited charged to income statement 4.4 5.8 7.9 3.9 0.8 12.4 Transfers 2.7 1.0 0.7 1.8 4.0 3.4 Credited charged directly to comprehensive income 0.2 13.6 13.4 At 30 June 2018 30.8 20.7 6.0 1.3 6.6 10.8 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributed to temporary differences relating to the following: Assets Liabilities Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 20.7 25.5 20.7 25.5 Intangible assets 30.8 32.5 30.8 32.5 Payables 0.5 0.5 Retirement benefit obligations 14.4 1.3 1.3 14.4 Share-based payments 0.4 1.3 0.4 1.3 Other short-term timing differences 0.6 6.4 6.4 0.6 Tax losses 6.6 1.8 6.6 1.8 Total 27.7 44.1 38.5 32.5 10.8 11.6 Set-off tax 27.7 32.5 27.7 32.5 Net tax assets liabilities 11.6 10.8 10.8 11.6 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 157 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 157 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 16 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials and consumables 17.5 18.0 Construction contracts in progress note 17 105.9 141.4 1 Land and work in progress held for development 214.4 260.3 1 Other work in progress 237.2 174.2 575.0 593.9 1 Prior year numbers have been reclassified to move 58.2m of land and property under development from other work in progress to land and work in progress held for development.
17 Construction contracts Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date comprise contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less losses of 9,869.9m 2017: 9,669.7m, less progress billings received and receivable of 10,170.8m 2017: 9,938.7m.
The net balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: 2018 2017 m m Inventories construction contracts in progress 105.9 141.4 Trade and other payables gross amounts due to customers note 22 406.8 410.4 300.9 269.0 18 Trade and other receivables 1 2018 2017 m m Current: Trade receivables 198.9 220.1 Construction contract retentions 92.9 79.4 Amounts receivable from joint ventures 5.4 2.9 Other receivables 49.7 61.1 Prepayments 52.0 40.1 Accrued income 204.1 92.7 Other taxation and social security 17.7 603.0 514.0 Non-current: Construction contract retentions 23.1 32.1 Other receivables 26.1 23.2 49.2 55.3 1 Prior year numbers have been restated to move 17.1m of PFI lifecycle funds from current to non-current other receivables.
158 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 158 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations a Assets held for sale The pensions administration business part of the Services division has been deemed non-core to the Kier Group portfolio.
The Group exchanged contracts to dispose of the business on 17 September 2018 for a total consideration of up to 3.5m, with completion expected in the first half of the 2019 financial year.
The business assets of 1.3m and liabilities of 3.4m have therefore been classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2018. b Results of discontinued operations Wheldons subsidiary On 29 June 2018 the Group, through its subsidiary McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited, disposed of its investment in Wheldon Contracts & Services Limited Wheldons.
No gain or loss has been made regarding this disposal.
Wheldons was acquired as part of the McNicholas acquisition and was identified as a non-core activity for disposal at that point.
Mouchel Consulting subsidiary On 12 October 2016, the Group disposed of its investment in Mouchel Limited which, together with its subsidiaries, comprised the Mouchel Consulting business.
The results are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Mouchel 1 Result of discontinued operations Wheldons Consulting Revenue 7.3 29.7 Operating costs 8.3 30.0 Operating loss 1.0 0.3 Finance costs Loss before tax 1.0 0.3 Tax 2.3 Loss for the period from discontinued operations after tax 1.0 2.6 Gain on sale of the subsidiary see note 30 40.0 Income tax credit on gain on sale of the subsidiary 1.1 Loss profit from discontinued operations 1.0 38.5 2018 2017 m m Mouchel 1 Cash flows from discontinued operations Wheldons Consulting Operating cash flows 1.0 2.6 Investing cash flows non-underlying 0.1 58.9 Financing cash flows Total cash flows 0.9 56.3 1 Restated to reclassify the profit on disposal of Mouchel Consulting within discontinued operations see note 1.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 159 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 159 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 20 Cash, cash equivalents and borrowings 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents bank balances and cash in hand 330.9 499.8 Borrowings due within one year 12.0 50.0 Borrowings due after one year 524.9 581.8 Impact of cross-currency hedging 20.3 21.9 Net borrowings 185.7 110.1 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to Group-wide cash pooling arrangements.
On a gross basis, cash and cash equivalents were 1,393.2m 2017: 1,574.3m and overdrafts were 1,062.3m 2017: 1,074.5m.
Cash and cash equivalents include 66.2m 2017: 50.6m being the Groups share of cash and cash equivalents held by joint operations and 75.7m 2017: 94.0m of bank balances that are not part of the Group-wide cash pooling arrangement, including 32.6m 2017: 25.9m held for future payment to designated suppliers.
Information on borrowings is detailed in note 27. a Reconciliation of working capital between the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated cash flow statement 2018 2017 Trade and Trade and Trade and Trade and other other other other Provisions Inventories receivables payables Provisions Inventories receivables payables m m m m m m m m 30 June 2017 balance sheet 593.9 569.3 1,450.3 79.3 675.9 557.7 1,392.7 80.5 30 June 2018 balance sheet 575.0 652.2 1,551.0 67.5 593.9 569.3 1,450.3 79.3 Movement per balance sheet 18.9 82.9 100.7 11.8 82.0 11.6 57.6 1.2 Transfers to and from assets held 1 for sale 0.5 0.8 1.3 3.6 0.1 5.0 8.7 Impact of non-underlying items 15.0 17.6 141.5 1.9 10.5 2 Disposal of subsidiary 34.8 25.9 0.6 3 Acquisition of subsidiary 54.3 70.4 11.0 4 Discount unwind 4.7 3.1 Other 0.9 4.7 0.9 4.0 Movement per cash flow statement 33.4 29.4 32.5 9.9 51.2 47.2 72.6 22.9 1 In the current year part of the Services division was transferred to assets held for sale see note 19.
In the prior year the UK Mining operations were transferred from assets held for sale.
2 In the prior year the disposal relates to Mouchel Limited.
3 Acquisition of subsidiary relates to McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited and Kier Babcock Education Services Limited see note 30.
4 Discount unwind primarily relates to onerous loss-making contracts.
b Reconciliation of movements in net borrowings Impact of crossCash and cash Borrowings due Borrowings due currency equivalents within one year after one year hedging Total m m m m m Net borrowings as at 1 July 2016 186.7 303.2 17.7 98.8 Cash flows 314.0 324.4 10.4 Transfers 50.0 50.0 Foreign exchange movements 0.9 4.2 4.2 0.9 Net borrowings as at 30 June 2017 499.8 50.0 581.8 21.9 110.1 Cash flows 167.4 50.0 43.3 74.1 Transfers 12.0 12.0 Foreign exchange movements 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.5 Net borrowings as at 30 June 2018 330.9 12.0 524.9 20.3 185.7 160 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 160 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 21 Finance lease obligations 2018 2017 Present Present Future value of Future value of minimum minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m At 1 July 15.2 0.9 14.3 27.7 1.4 26.3 New obligations 2.7 0.2 2.5 1.8 0.1 1.7 Acquired 0.6 0.1 0.5 Repayments 10.6 0.4 10.2 14.3 0.6 13.7 At 30 June 7.9 0.8 7.1 15.2 0.9 14.3 Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 2018 2017 Present Present Future value of Future value of minimum minimum minimum minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Less than one year 4.4 0.4 4.0 9.6 0.5 9.1 Between two and five years 2.9 0.3 2.6 5.3 0.3 5.0 Over five years 0.6 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.2 At 30 June 7.9 0.8 7.1 15.2 0.9 14.3 22 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Current: Trade payables 620.5 518.3 Sub-contract retentions 61.7 61.5 Construction contract balances note 17 406.8 410.4 Other taxation and social security 85.6 62.7 Deferred consideration 4.0 Other payables 39.4 100.0 Accruals 280.9 239.4 Deferred income 11.8 23.3 Payments received on account 16.1 18.1 1,526.8 1,433.7 Non-current: Trade payables 1.6 2.2 Sub-contract retentions 15.6 14.4 Deferred consideration 7.0 24.2 16.6 Included within the Groups trade and other payables balance is 184.8m 2017: 197.3m relating to payments due to suppliers who are on bank-supported supply chain finance arrangements.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 161 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 161 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 23 Provisions Warranty, rectification Redundancy, and other Insurance Restoration of HSE Onerous site closure & contractual claims mining sites regulatory contracts dilapidations obligations Total m m m m m m m At 1 July 2016 25.6 31.4 7.3 16.2 80.5 Charged to income statement 18.6 8.0 7.8 13.7 2.0 50.1 Divested 2.5 4.9 7.4 Transfers 8.7 8.7 Utilised 20.8 3.2 2.9 14.2 6.0 8.6 55.7 Unwinding of discount 2.5 0.6 3.1 At 30 June 2017 20.9 5.5 5.1 27.5 10.1 10.2 79.3 Charged credited to income statement 12.8 1.7 1.6 1.0 1.2 1.8 14.5 Acquired 1.5 9.7 11.2 Utilised 13.3 2.9 2.5 13.8 6.5 3.2 42.2 Unwinding of discount 3.2 1.5 4.7 At 30 June 2018 20.4 4.3 1.0 17.9 3.9 20.0 67.5 Insurance provisions are in respect of legal and other disputes in various Group companies.
Mining provisions of 4.3m represent the cost of restoration of opencast mining sites.
HSE regulatory provisions are in respect of potential fines arising from changes to safety, health and environmental legislation and regulation.
Onerous contracts provisions are for loss-making contracts that the Group is legally obligated to complete.
Redundancy and dilapidations provisions are in respect of office closure, and site closure provisions relate to adoption costs payable to local authorities on completion of development sites.
Warranty and rectification provisions are for potential claims against work completed by the Group, and other contractual obligations are primarily end of service costs associated with the Groups overseas workforce and potential costs associated with purchases of land held for development.
It is anticipated that the amounts provided will be utilised as follows: 2018 2017 m m Due within one year 15.4 19.0 Due after one year 52.1 60.3 67.5 79.3 Due to the nature of the provision for insurance claims, the timing of any potential future outflows in respect of these liabilities is uncertain.
Future outflows in respect of other provisions are expected to occur over the next 10 years.
162 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 162 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 24 Share capital and reserves Share capital The share capital of the Company comprises: 2018 2017 Number m Number m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each 97,460,163 1.0 97,443,035 1.0 During the year 17,128 shares were issued under the Sharesave Scheme at a premium of 0.2m.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Cash flow hedge reserve This reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred, net of any related deferred tax.
Translation reserve This reserve comprises the cumulative difference on exchange arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, this reserve was set to nil at 1 July 2004.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the shares issued at a premium to acquire May Gurney on 8 July 2013.
25 Share-based payments Options and awards over the Companys ordinary shares at 30 June 2018 were as follows: Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave Sharesave CSAP 2018 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2017 LTIP 2018 Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme award award award award 31 Oct 31 Oct 31 Oct 1 Nov 23 Oct 22 Oct 21 Oct 17 Nov Date of grant 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total Awards outstanding at 30 June 2018 directors 2,353 3,661 210,163 227,191 298,426 741,794 employees 1,860 613,964 437,945 1,176,104 792,422 921,287 1,049,038 4,992,620 1,860 616,317 437,945 1,179,765 792,422 1,131,450 1,276,229 298,426 5,734,414 Exercise price pence 1,159 1,147 1,155 983 nil nil nil nil Sharesave Scheme Options to acquire shares in the capital of Kier Group plc have been granted to eligible employees who enter into a Sharesave contract.
The number of options granted to each participating employee are the number of shares which have an aggregate option price not exceeding the projected proceeds of the employees Sharesave contract.
Participation in the Kier Sharesave scheme is offered to all employees of the Group who have been employed for a continuous period determined by the Board.
Under the Sharesave contract, participating employees save a regular sum each month for three years up to a maximum of 500 per month.
1,306,453 options were granted in the year 2017: 699,380 under the Sharesave Scheme, which will all be equity settled.
The weighted average market price of Kier Group plc shares at the date of exercise of Sharesave Scheme options during the year was 1,238 pence 2017: 1,166 pence.
Conditional Share Award Plan During the year, the Group established a conditional share award plan CSAP under which senior employees receive awards of shares subject only to service conditions, i. e. the requirement for participants to remain in employment with the Group over the vesting period.
Participants are entitled to receive dividend equivalents on these awards.
Awards under the CSAP are all equity settled.
No shares have yet vested under the CSAP.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 163 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 163 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 25 Share-based payments continued Long Term Incentive Plan The Group has established a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP under which directors can receive awards of shares.
Senior employees also participate in LTIP awards granted before the introduction of the CSAP, which replaced the LTIP awards for senior employees who were not main board directors.
Awards made under the scheme are normally able to vest following the third anniversary of the date of the grant.
Vesting may be in full or in part with the balance of the award lapsing and is subject to the Group achieving specific performance targets.
Participants in the 2017 scheme are entitled to receive dividend equivalents on these awards.
Awards under the LTIP are all equity settled.
The market price of Kier Group plc shares at the date of exercise of LTIP options was 1,078 pence 2017: 1,360 pence.
The awards which are taken as shares are intended to be satisfied from shares held by the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust and May Gurney Group Trustees Ltd Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust or from the issue of new shares.
The shares held by the trusts are accounted for as a deduction from equity within retained earnings.
The dividends on these shares have been waived.
Further description of these schemes and the terms and conditions of each scheme are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 107.
Value of share schemes The fair value per option granted has been calculated using the following assumptions.
These calculations are based on the Black-Scholes model for all options apart from the total shareholder return TSR element of the LTIP which is based on a Stochastic model.
Sharesave Scheme 31 October 31 October 1 November Date of grant 2015 2016 2017 Share price at grant pence 1,377 1,329 1,055 Exercise price pence 1,147 1,155 983 Option life years 3.0 3.0 3.0 Expected volatility 22.9% 25.5% 24.9% Dividend yield 4.7% 4.7% 6.4% Risk-free interest rate 0.9% 0.3% 0.6% Value per option pence 222.6 205.8 113.1 Conditional Share Award Plan 23 October Date of grant 2017 Share price at grant pence 1,063 Exercise price pence nil Option life years 3.0 Value per option pence 1,063 164 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 164 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Long Term Incentive Plan 21 October 17 November 2016 2017 22 October 22 October EPS & Net 21 October EPS & Net 17 November 2015 2015 Debt:EBITDA 2016 Debt:EBITDA 2017 Date of grant EPS element TSR element element TSR element element TSR element Share price at grant pence 1,388 1,388 1,360 1,360 1,049 1,049 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil Option life years 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.9 Expected volatility n a 23.3% n a 26.5% n a 27.5% Dividend yield 4.8% 4.8% 4.7% 4.7% n a n a Risk-free interest rate n a 0.7% n a 0.2% n a 0.5% Value per option pence 1,203.7 801.0 1,182.3 609.1 968.2 345.4 The value per option represents the fair value of the option less the consideration payable.
The fair value of the TSR element incorporates an assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded, as the performance conditions are market conditions under IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
The performance conditions of the EPS and the net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ratio Net Debt: EBITDA elements are non-market conditions under IFRS 2.
The fair value therefore does not include an assessment of the number of shares that will be awarded.
Instead the amount charged for this element is based on the fair value factored by a true-up for the number of awards that are expected to vest.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK Government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The dividend yield does not have an impact on the fair value of the 2017 LTIP as participants are entitled to receive dividend equivalents on these awards.
An amount of 5.4m relating to share-based payments has been recognised in the income statement as employee costs 2017: 2.7m.
Included in other payables is an amount of 0.3m 2017: 0.7m relating to provisions for employers national insurance.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Outstanding at 1 July 5,411,912 443.7p 4,735,719 476.8p Forfeited 1,813,933 697.7p 983,842 472.5p Exercised 279,081 161.8p 417,176 478.3p Granted 2,415,516 531.7p 2,077,211 388.9p Outstanding at 30 June 5,734,414 414.1p 5,411,912 443.7p Exercisable at 30 June 1,860 1,159.0p The options outstanding at 30 June 2018 have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.45 years 2017: 1.80 years.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 165 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 165 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 26 Guarantees and contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees and counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to certain of the Groups contracts.
The Company has also given guarantees in respect of certain contractual obligations of its subsidiaries and joint ventures, which were entered into in the normal course of business, as well as certain of the Groups other obligations for example, in respect of the Groups finance facilities and its pension schemes.
A guarantee is treated as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that payment will be required under its terms.
Provisions are made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions relating to the Group which are considered more likely than not to result in an outflow of economic benefit.
If the Directors consider that a claim, investigation or action relating to the Group is unlikely to succeed, no provision is made.
If the Directors cannot make a reliable estimate of a potential, material obligation, no provision is made but details of the claim are disclosed.
27 Financial instruments The following table summarises the Groups financial instruments as at 30 June 2018: 2018 2017 Loans and Loans and receivables at receivables at amortised cost, Financial amortised cost, Financial cash and cash liabilities at cash and cash liabilities at equivalents amortised cost Derivatives equivalents amortised cost Derivatives m m m m m m Financial assets Trade and other receivables less prepayments and accrued income 396.1 436.5 Cash and cash equivalents 330.9 499.8 Loans provided to joint ventures 102.2 54.2 Other financial assets 15.2 18.9 Total 829.2 15.2 990.5 18.9 Financial liabilities Borrowings 536.9 631.8 Finance lease obligations 7.1 14.3 1 Trade and other payables 1,437.5 1,346.2 Other financial liabilities 0.3 Total 1,981.5 1,992.3 0.3 Net 829.2 1,981.5 15.2 990.5 1,992.3 18.6 1 Trade and other payables exclude other taxes and social security, deferred income and payments on account.
Capital risk management The Groups capital management objectives are to ensure the Groups ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise the capital structure in order to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet to support business development and tender qualification.
The four operating divisions of the Group have complementary capital characteristics, with the Construction division, and to a lesser extent the Services division, generating a net cash surplus, whilst the Property and Residential divisions require net capital to fund developments.
The Groups capital management strategy is to use a blend of capital types with different risk, return and maturity profiles to support the operating divisions and deliver the Groups capital management objectives.
The Groups overall capital risk management strategy remains unchanged from 2017.
The capital structure of the Group comprises: equity, consisting of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity: and cash, cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in note 20 and described further below.
The Group forecasts and monitors short, medium and longer-term capital needs on a regular basis and adjusts its capital structure as required through the payment of dividends to shareholders, the issue of new share capital and the increase or repayment of borrowings.
All investment decisions are made with regard to the Groups weighted average cost of capital and typically a pre-tax annualised return of at least 15.0% is required to ensure such investments are value enhancing for shareholders.
Financial risk management Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
The overall aim of the Groups financial risk management policies is to minimise any potential adverse effects on financial performance and net assets.
The Groups treasury team manages the principal financial risks within policies and operating limits approved by the Board.
The treasury function is not a profit centre and does not enter into speculative transactions.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposure to fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and some commodity prices.
166 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 166 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Credit risk Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits and interest rate and currency hedges.
Policies and procedures exist to ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history.
The Groups most significant clients are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the client.
Short-term bank deposits and hedging transactions are executed only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties based on ratings issued by the major ratings agencies.
Counterparty exposure positions are monitored regularly so that credit exposures to any one counterparty are within acceptable limits.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Trade and other receivables included in the balance sheet are stated net of bad debt provisions which have been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts.
There is no Group-wide rate of provision and provision made for debts that are overdue is based on prior default experience and known factors at the balance sheet date.
Receivables are written off against the bad debt provision when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables is set out below: 2018 2017 m m Provision as at 1 July 8.2 20.0 Credited to the income statement 0.6 0.8 Utilised in the year 5.7 Acquired in the year 0.6 Divested in the year 0.5 11.0 Provision as at 30 June 2.0 8.2 There were 73.8m 2017: 82.9m of trade receivables that were overdue at the balance sheet date that have not been provided against, of which 29.5m 2017: 48.5m had been received by the end of August 2018.
There are no indications as at 30 June 2018 that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the amount of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are overdue and unprovided.
The proportion of trade receivables at 30 June 2018 that were overdue for payment was 37.1% 2017: 37.8%.
Credit terms vary across the Group: the average age of trade receivables was as follows: Construction 12 days 2017: 16 days Services 16 days 2017: 14 days Overall, the Group considers that it is not exposed to significant credit risk.
Market risk Interest rate risk The Group has borrowing facilities to finance short-term working capital requirements and term loans to finance medium-term capital requirements, which carry interest at floating rates, at a margin over LIBOR.
The Groups borrowings, excluding the effect of derivatives, can be analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Fixed rate 285.6 288.0 Variable rate 255.8 346.5 Cost of raising finance 4.5 2.7 536.9 631.8 In addition, one of the Groups joint ventures has entered into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate significant interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Groups borrowings where they are not at fixed interest rates.
A 50 basis point increase decrease in the interest rate would lead to a 2.2m increase 2017: 1.3m 1.9m decrease 2017: 0.7m in the Groups net finance cost.
Foreign currency risk The Group operates primarily within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is not considered to be significant.
Where significant foreign currency exposures are identified, these are hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts or swaps.
Changes in foreign exchange rates affect the carrying amount of the liability relating to foreign currency denominated debt on the Groups balance sheet.
The utilisation of derivatives ensures that the movement is recognised in other comprehensive income rather than profit and loss.
A 5% increase decrease in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate combined with a 5% increase decrease in the Euro to sterling exchange rate would lead to a 6.0m decrease 2017: 6.1m 6.3m increase 2017: 6.4m in the carrying amount of the liability on the Groups balance sheet, with the movement recognised in other comprehensive income.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 167 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 167 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 27 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The Groups policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient borrowing facilities are available to fund operations without the need to carry significant net debt over the medium term.
The Groups principal borrowing facilities are provided by a syndicate of relationship banks and established investors, and in the case of a number of our Loan Notes, in the form of unsecured committed borrowing facilities.
The amount of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and is designed to exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
Derivative financial instruments During 2013 the Group entered into three cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on US dollar-denominated loan, nominal value US$28.0m.
During 2014 the Group entered into four cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a US dollar-denominated loan, nominal value US$116.0m.
During 2016 the Group entered into two cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a Eurodenominated loan, nominal value 20.0m, and three interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk on a GBP-denominated loan, nominal value 58.5m.
During 2017 the Group reduced the value on one of the interest rate swaps from 15.0m to 10.0m and entered into an additional swap of 12.0m bringing the total value to 65.5m.
The Group has assessed the effectiveness of these swaps and concluded that they are 100% effective.
Therefore, no amount in relation to hedge ineffectiveness has been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any cross currency or interest rate swap.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur and the fair value of the related hedging instruments: Expected cash flows More than Fair value Total 01 years 12 years 25 years 5 years Continuing operations m m m m m m Cross-currency swaps: asset Gross settled inflows 155.6 5.3 11.2 62.2 76.9 Gross settled outflows 131.0 4.6 9.5 53.1 63.8 15.0 24.6 0.7 1.7 9.1 13.1 Interest rate swaps: asset Net settled 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.2 In addition to the above, a number of the Groups PFI and one of the Groups property joint ventures have entered into interest rate derivatives as a means of hedging interest rate risk.
Interest-bearing debts and associated interest rate derivatives within these joint ventures have a typical term of between 20 and 25 years and are without recourse to the Group.
At 30 June 2018 the aggregate amount outstanding on these interest-bearing debts against which interest rate derivatives are held is 46.9m 2017: 82.9m.
The Groups share of the total net fair value liability of these interest rate derivatives at 30 June 2018 amounted to 0.3m 2017: 6.3m which, together with the related deferred tax asset of nil 2017: 1.1m, have met the criteria for hedge accounting.
Financial assets 2018 2017 Loans and receivables at amortised cost, cash and cash equivalents: m m Cash and cash equivalents 330.9 499.8 Trade and other receivables including 49.2m due after more than one year excluding prepayments and accrued income 396.1 436.5 Loans to joint ventures 102.2 54.2 829.2 990.5 168 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 168 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial liabilities analysis of maturity dates At 30 June 2018 the Group had the following financial liabilities at amortised cost together with the maturity profile of their contractual cash flows: Continuing operations Trade and other Finance lease 1 payables Borrowings obligations Total 30 June 2018 m m m m Carrying value 1,437.5 536.9 7.1 1,981.5 Contractual cash flows Less than one year 1,413.3 28.7 4.4 1,446.4 One to two years 24.7 39.2 1.1 65.0 Two to three years 65.8 0.6 66.4 Three to four years 34.3 0.6 34.9 Four to five years 301.1 0.6 301.7 Over five years 87.2 0.6 87.8 1,438.0 556.3 7.9 2,002.2 30 June 2017 Carrying value 1,346.2 631.8 14.3 1,992.3 Contractual cash flows Less than one year 1,329.6 67.6 9.6 1,406.8 One to two years 16.6 29.5 4.2 50.3 Two to three years 336.0 0.6 336.6 Three to four years 59.9 0.3 60.2 Four to five years 28.4 0.2 28.6 Over five years 132.5 0.3 132.8 1,346.2 653.9 15.2 2,015.3 1 Trade and other payables exclude other taxes and social security, deferred income and payments on account.
There is no material difference between the carrying value and fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
The Group uses cross-currency and interest rate swaps for hedging.
These derivatives are classified as level 2.
The prices of derivative transactions have been derived from proprietary models used by the bank counterparties using mid-market mark to market valuations for trades at the close of business on 30 June 2018.
Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2018: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging Cross-currency swaps 15.0 15.0 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate swaps Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 169 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 169 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 27 Financial instruments continued The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2017: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging Cross-currency swaps 18.9 18.9 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 during the period.
Borrowings and borrowing facilities As at 30 June 2018 the Group had the following unsecured committed facilities after the effect of derivatives: Revolving credit facility of 670.0m, at a margin over LIBOR, due for renewal in July 2022, 255.8m drawn at 30 June 2018 2017: 296.5m : Four loan notes, principal amounts of 45.0m, US$28.0m, 47.0m and US$116.0m, with fixed coupons of between 4.1% and 4.9%, repayable in four repayments, December 2019, December 2022, November 2021 and November 2024, fully drawn at 30 June 2018, totalling 182.7m at hedged rates 2017: 182.7m : Two loan notes, principal amounts of 10.0m and 10.0m, with fixed coupons of between 1.5% and 2.1%, repayable in May 2021 and May 2023, fully drawn at 30 June 2018 totalling 15.7m at hedged rates 2017: 15.7m : and Two loan notes, principal amount of 53.5m and 12.0m at a margin over LIBOR with maturity dates May 2021 and May 2019, fully drawn at 30 June 2018, totalling 65.5m 2017: 65.5m.
The 50.0m term loan at a margin over LIBOR, that was fully drawn at 30 June 2017, was repaid during the year.
In addition, the Group has unsecured overdraft facilities of 52.5m 2017: 45.0m, at a margin over LIBOR, repayable on demand, undrawn at 30 June 2018 and 2017, and a bank loan of 1.4m 2017: 2.2m.
The committed facilities are subject to certain covenants linked to the Groups financing structure, specifically regarding the ratios of debt to EBITDA, interest cover, and consolidated net worth.
The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the period.
Included within borrowings are capitalised loan fees of 4.5m 2017: 2.7m.
The two fuel price forward contracts held at the start of the year at a value of 0.2m matured during the year.
170 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 170 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Financial and capital commitments 2018 2017 m m Commitments for capital expenditure 4.8 Commitments for equity and subordinate debt in joint ventures 1.0 4.7 1.0 9.5 The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2018 2017 Plant and Plant and Property machinery Property machinery m m m m Within one year 13.0 37.7 9.7 30.0 Between one and five years 39.6 53.2 36.2 52.7 Over five years 117.5 0.4 114.4 170.1 91.3 160.3 82.7 The Group leases properties and vehicles for operational purposes.
Property leases vary considerably in length up to a maximum period beyond 30 June 2018 of 25 years.
Vehicle leases typically run for a period of four years.
No leases include contingent rentals.
29 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, key management personnel and pension schemes in which its employees participate.
Transactions with key management personnel The Groups key management personnel are the executive and non-executive Directors as identified in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 107 inclusive.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and contributes to their pension arrangements as disclosed on page 92.
Key management personnel also participate in the Groups share option programme see note 25.
Key management personnel compensation comprised of: 2018 2017 m m Emoluments as analysed in the Directors Remuneration Report 5.6 4.5 Employers national insurance contributions 0.8 0.7 Total short-term employment benefits 6.4 5.2 Share-based payment charge 0.7 0.4 7.1 5.6 Transactions with pension schemes Details of transactions between the Group and pension schemes in which its employees participate are detailed in note 8.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 171 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 171 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 29 Related parties continued Transactions with joint ventures 1 2018 2017 m m Construction services and materials 116.9 11.3 Staff and associated costs 8.9 1.3 Management services 4.4 3.9 Interest on loans to joint ventures 0.7 0.8 Plant hire 0.8 131.7 17.3 1 The comparative figures have been restated to include 13.2m of transactions with joint ventures previously not disclosed.
Equity loans due from joint ventures are analysed below: 2018 2017 m m Kier Cornwall Street LLP 13.1 Kier Reading LLP 10.5 15.0 Kier Richmond Limited 9.9 Kier Southampton Investment Limited 9.3 Kier Newcastle Investment Limited 8.8 Kier Community Living LLP 8.4 Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP 7.7 Kier Sovereign LLP 5.2 0.3 50 Bothwell Street LLP 4.8 4.7 Kier Trade City LLP 4.3 10.7 Lysander Student Properties Investments Limited 3.9 Strawberry Percy LLP 3.3 Easingwold Devco LLP 2.9 Notaro Kier LLP 2.9 Stokesley Devco LLP 2.7 Tri-link 140 LLP 1.4 1.4 Black Rock Devco LLP 1.2 Winsford Devco LLP 1.1 1.1 Driffield Devco LLP 0.8 Kier Foley Street LLP 20.9 Staffordshire Property Partnership 0.1 102.2 54.2 Trading balances due from joint ventures are analysed below: 2018 2017 m m Hackney Schools for the Future Limited 2.7 Driffield Devco LLP 1.4 Solum Regeneration Guildford LLP 0.9 Stokesley Devco LLP 0.5 0.7 Kier Southampton Investment Limited 0.3 Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP 0.2 Kier Community Living LLP 0.2 Kier Sydenham LP 0.1 Kier Trade City LLP 0.1 Team Van Oord Limited 0.1 Black Rock Devco LLP 1.0 Winsford Devco LLP 0.8 6.5 2.5 172 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 172 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 30 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of McNicholas subsidiary The Group purchased the entire share capital of McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited McNicholas on 12 July 2017.
McNicholas is an established UK engineering services provider to the UKs multi-utility sectors including telecommunications, gas, power, water, renewable energy and rail.
Working across the UK and with headquarters in Elstree, Hertfordshire, McNicholas employs 1,880 people and has a client base which includes Virgin Media, Network Rail and UK Power Networks.
This investment in the Kier Group utilities and infrastructure services business has strengthened Kiers position in one of its key sectors and built its expertise in infrastructure services.
The maximum consideration payable for the acquisition is 27.4m, comprising 13.4m in cash paid on acquisition and 14.0m of deferred contingent consideration.
The 14.0m of deferred contingent consideration comprises: 9.5m in cash payable on achieving certain EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation targets over a two-year period: and 4.5m payable on achievement of certain debt-recovery targets, of which 2.4m has been paid during the year.
The discounted fair value of the consideration expected to be paid is 26.3m and intangible assets of 12.1m were identified on acquisition, representing the fair value of customer contracts at the date of acquisition.
The assets and liabilities purchased for resale in the table below relate to Wheldon Contracts & Services Limited note 30 b and are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
The Group has elected to use the short cut method under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations to present the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary separately rather than as components of the classes of assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of 42.8m is attributable to the knowledge and expertise of the assembled workforce and the operating synergies that arise from the Groups strengthened market position.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
1.6m of acquisition costs were incurred in the year ended 30 June 2017 and a further 0.2m of acquisition costs have been incurred in the year and expensed to the income statement.
Integration costs of 1.6m have been incurred in the year.
The fair values attributable to the transaction are set out below: Fair value to the Group m Intangible assets 12.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.5 Deferred tax assets 5.7 Inventories 1.8 Trade and other receivables 46.8 Income tax receivable 0.8 Bank overdrafts 8.0 Trade and other payables due within 1 year 55.1 Trade and other payables due after 1 year 1.0 Retirement benefit obligations 10.9 Provisions 10.0 Assets purchased for resale 3.5 Liabilities purchased for resale 3.7 16.5 Goodwill 42.8 Total assets acquired 26.3 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 13.4 Deferred consideration 12.9 Total consideration 26.3 In preparing the results, revenue and costs have been included as if the businesses were acquired on 1 July 2017 and the inter-company transactions have been eliminated.
The McNicholas businesses contributed 217.0m to Group revenue and 10.2m to underlying profit before taxation for the year to 30 June 2018.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 173 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 173 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 30 Acquisitions and disposals continued b Disposal of Wheldon Contracts & Services Limited subsidiary On 29 June 2018 the Group, through its subsidiary McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited, disposed of its investment in Wheldon Contracts & Services Limited.
2018 m Net sale proceeds 0.1 Costs of disposal 0.3 Book value of net liabilities 0.2 Profit loss on disposal c Acquisition of the trade and assets of Smart Motorways On 15 January 2018, Carillion Plc went into liquidation and consequently forfeited its share of the Smart Motorways joint venture.
Kier assumed 100% of the assets and liabilities of the contract at this date.
No consideration was payable for Carillions share.
This transaction has been accounted for as an acquisition of trade and assets, resulting in the recognition of 5.2m of net assets and profit before related costs.
d Deemed disposal of an investment in joint venture and subsequent acquisition as a subsidiary of Kier Babcock Education Services Limited On 26 October 2017 the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Holdings Limited, acquired the remaining share capital of its joint venture Kier Babcock Education Services Limited KBESL.
On the same date the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Facilities Services Limited, acquired an unincorporated business from Babcock Civil Infrastructure Limited the Lewisham business for consideration of 1.7m.
The acquisition opens the Group up to opportunities to participate in future schemes up to 2023, as well as increasing current profitable revenue streams.
The Group previously held 50% of the share capital of KBESL.
The Group acquired the remaining 50% of the share capital of KBESL from the joint venture partner for 0.9m, and renamed the company Kier Education Services Limited KESL.
This transaction has been treated as a deemed disposal of a joint venture and subsequent acquisition of a subsidiary.
Deemed disposal of a joint venture A gain of 0.8m arose on the deemed disposal of the joint venture, calculated as follows: 2018 m Deemed consideration 2.5 Carrying value of interest held 1.7 Gain on deemed disposal 0.8 174 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 174 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Acquisition of subsidiary KBESL and the Lewisham business Final fair value of assets and liabilities acquired: Fair value to the Group m Non-current assets 4.4 Current assets 7.3 Cash at bank 1.9 Current liabilities 4.7 Non-current liabilities 1.2 7.7 Negative goodwill 2.6 Total assets acquired 5.1 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 2.6 Deemed disposal of joint venture 2.5 Total consideration 5.1 e Disposal of other investments in joint ventures During the year the Group, through its subsidiary Kier Project Investment Limited, disposed of its interest in Evolution Woking Holdings Limited, for a total consideration of 4.9m.
In the underlying results of the property segment the profit on disposal recognised in the year was 2.7m.
The total disposal proceeds of all investments in joint ventures during the year can be reconciled to total profit and loss as follows: 2018 2017 m m Sale proceeds 4.9 35.7 Book value of net assets 1.9 37.2 Sale costs 0.3 2.1 Profit loss on disposal 2.7 3.6 Deemed disposal 0.8 Total profit loss on disposal 3.5 3.6 f Prior year disposal of Mouchel Consulting subsidiary On 12 October 2016, the Group disposed of its investment in Mouchel Limited, which together with its subsidiaries comprised the Mouchel Consulting business.
2017 m Net sale proceeds 77.9 Costs of disposal 24.0 Net assets disposed of 13.9 Profit on disposal 40.0 The direct costs of disposal of Mouchel Consulting comprise costs relating to the unwinding of the existing Mouchel group structure and back office services and transaction-related fees and bonuses.
In addition to these costs, the transaction triggered a number of other related charges, including contract settlements, dissolution of the existing IT team including impairment of related assets and provision for onerous contracts.
These charges were partly offset by insurance recoveries and anticipated income from a transitional services agreement.
These charges have also been included within the total costs of disposal.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 175 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 175 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 31 Subsidiaries and other undertakings A full list of subsidiaries, associated undertakings, and joint arrangements as at 30 June 2018 is detailed below.
Unless stated otherwise, all undertakings are wholly owned and held indirectly by Kier Group plc.
Subsidiaries 1 Company name Registered office Share class es held % held by Group 2020 Liverpool Limited 1 Ordinary 100% A C Chesters & Son Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Absolute Property Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% AK Student Living Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Allison Homes Eastern Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Ayton Asphalte Company Limited in liquidation 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Balaam Wood Management Company Limited 3 Ordinary 100% Bellwinch Homes Western Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Bellwinch Homes Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Bellwinch Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Brazier Construction Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% Building & Construction Company Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% Caribbean Construction Company Limited 4 Ordinary 100% Caxton Integrated Services Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% ClearBOX Limited 1 Ordinary 75% Connect 21 Community Limited 5 Ordinary 100% Constantine Place Longstanton Management Company Limited 6 Ordinary 100% Dudley Coles Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Elsea Park Bourne Management Company Limited 6 Ordinary 100% Engage Lambeth Limited 1 C Ordinary 100% 3 52% Engineered Products Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% FDT Holdings Ltd 1 Ordinary 100% FDT Associates Ltd 1 Ordinary A 100% Genica Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% HBS Facilities Management Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Heart of Wales Property Services Limited 7 Ordinary 50% Heatherwood Thetford Management Company Limited 6 Ordinary 100% Henry Jones Construction Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Henry Jones Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Hugh Bourn Developments Wragby Limited in liquidation 8 Ordinary 100% I E I Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% J L Kier & Company London Limited 1 Ordinary 100% J L Kier & Company Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Javelin Construction Company Limited 1 Ordinary 100% KHSA Limited 9 Ordinary 100% Kier Catterick Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Kier Kent PSP Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Kier Malaysia SDN.
10 Ordinary 100% Kier NR Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Asset Partnership Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Benefits Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Build Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Building Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Kier Business Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Caribbean and Industrial Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier CB Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Commercial Investments Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Commercial UKSC Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Construction Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Construction Limited 11 Ordinary 100% Kier Construction LLC 12 Ordinary 49% Kier Construction SA 13 Ordinary 100% Kier Developments Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% C Ordinary 100% 1 See list of registered office details and explanatory notes on page 182.
176 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 176 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Subsidiaries continued 1 Company name Registered office Share class es held % held by Group Kier Dormant Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Dubai LLC 14 Ordinary 49% Kier Education Investments Limited 1 B Ordinary 100% M Ordinary 100% Kier Education Services Limited 1 B Ordinary 100% M Ordinary 100% Kier Energy Solutions Limited 1 Ordinary 100% A Ordinary 100% Kier Ewan Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Facilities Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Finance & Treasury Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Finance Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Fleet Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% 2 Kier Group Trustees Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Harlow Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Kier Highways Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Kier Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Irredeemable preference 100% Kier Homes Caledonia Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Homes Northern Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Infrastructure Pty Ltd 15 Ordinary 100% Kier Insurance Limited 16 Ordinary 100% Kier Insurance Management Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Integrated Services Estates Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Integrated Services Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Deferred 100% Kier Integrated Services Trustees Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Integrated Services Group Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Integrated Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier International Investments Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier International Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier International Limited 17 Ordinary 100% Kier Islington Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Islington 100% Kier Jamaica Development Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Land Limited 1 Ordinary 100% 2 Kier Limited 1 Ordinary 100% 2 Kier Living Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier London Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Kier Management Consulting Limited 1 Ordinary 100% A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Kier Midlands Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Minerals Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Mining Investments Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Mortimer Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Kier National Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier North East Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% 5 Kier North Tyneside Limited 1 B Ordinary 100% 3 80% Kier Overseas Four Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Overseas Nine Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Overseas Seventeen Limited 1 Ordinary 100% 1 See list of registered office details and explanatory notes on page 182.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 177 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 177 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 31 Subsidiaries and other undertakings continued 1 Company name Registered office Share class es held % held by Group Kier Overseas Twelve Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Overseas Twenty-Three Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Overseas Two Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Kier Parkman Ewan Associates Limited 1 Ordinary A 100% Kier Parkman GB Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Parkman ServiGroup Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Parkman Two NI Limited in liquidation 18 Ordinary 100% Kier Partnership Homes Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Plant Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Professional Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Project Investment Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Property Developments Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Property Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Property Management Company Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Rail Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Rail No.
2 Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Recycling CIC 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Scotland Limited in liquidation 19 Ordinary 100% Kier Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Sheffield LLP 1 80.1% Kier South East Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Southern Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Stoke Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% 3 80.1% Kier Sydenham Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Thurrock Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Traffic Support Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier UKSC LLP 1 100% Kier Ventures Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Ventures UKSC Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Kier Whitehall Place Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Kier York Street LLP 1 100% Lambeth Learning Partnership PSP Limited 1 Ordinary 65% Lazenby & Wilson Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% Leyden Transport Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Liferange Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Marriott Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% McNicholas Communications Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% McNicholas Construction Holdings Limited 1 A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% McNicholas Construction Company Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% McNicholas Construction Services Limited 1 Ordinary 100% McNicholas International Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Morrell-Ixworth Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Deferred 100% Moss Construction Northern Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Moss Construction Southern Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% MPHBS Limited 1 Ordinary 100% MRBL Limited 1 Ordinary A 100% Ordinary B 100% Deferred B 100% Newbury King & Co. Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Parkman Consultants Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Parkman Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Parkman Kenya Limited 20 Ordinary 100% Parkman Nigeria Limited 21 Ordinary 100% 1 See list of registered office details and explanatory notes on page 182.
178 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 178 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Subsidiaries continued 1 Company name Registered office Share class es held % held by Group Pure Buildings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Pure Recycling Warwick Limited 1 Ordinary A 100% Ordinary B 100% Riley Builders Ltd in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Robert Marriott Group Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Saudi Kier Construction Limited 22 Ordinary 100% Sea Place Management Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Senturion Group Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Social Power Harlow Holdings Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Social Power Harlow Limited 1 Ordinary 100% T Cartledge Limited in liquidation 1 Ordinary 100% T H Construction Limited 1 Ordinary 100% T J Brent Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Ordinary B 100% Ordinary C 100% Tempsford Cedars Limited 1 Ordinary 100% 2 Tempsford Insurance Company Limited 16 Ordinary 100% The Impact Partnership Rochdale Borough Limited 1 Ordinary 80.1% 9 The Unity Partnership Limited 1 Ordinary 66.7% Tor2 Limited 1 PSP Shares 100% 3 80.01% TradeDirect Logistics Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Turriff Contractors Limited 23 Ordinary 100% Turriff Group Limited 23 Ordinary 100% A Ordinary 100% B Ordinary 100% Turriff Smart Services Limited in liquidation 19 Ordinary 100% Twigden Homes Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Twigden Homes Southern Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Underground Moling Services Limited in liquidation 19 Ordinary 100% Usherlink Limited 1 Ordinary 100% W. & C. French Construction Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Wallis Builders Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% Wallis Limited 1 Ordinary 100% Wallis Western Limited 1 Ordinary 100% William Moss Civil Engineering Limited in liquidation 2 Ordinary 100% William Moss Group Limited The 1 Ordinary 100% 1 See list of registered office details and explanatory notes on page 182.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 179 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 179 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 31 Subsidiaries and other undertakings continued Joint ventures 1 1 Company name Registered office Interest held Registered office Interest held Property 3 Sovereign Square Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Sovereign LLP 1 50% 3 Sovereign Square Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Kier Sydenham GP Holdco Limited 1 50% 3 Sovereign Square LLP 1 50% Kier Sydenham GP Limited 1 50% 50 Bothwell Street Holdco 1 LLP 24 50% Kier Sydenham LP 1 50% 50 Bothwell Street Holdco 2 LLP 24 50% Kier Sydenham Nominee Limited 1 50% 50 Bothwell Street LLP 24 50% Kier Trade City Holdco 1 LLP 1 90% Alliance Community Partnership Limited 25 10% Kier Trade City Holdco 2 LLP 1 90% Black Rock Devco LLP 1 50% Kier Trade City LLP 1 90% Black Rock Holdco 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Warth Limited 1 50% Black Rock Holdco 2 LLP 1 50% Kingswood Devco Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Dragon Lane Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Kingswood Devco Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Dragon Lane Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Kingswood Devco LLP 1 50% Dragon Lane LLP 1 50% Lysander Student Properties Investments Limited 1 75% Driffield Devco LLP 1 50% Lysander Student Properties Limited 1 75% Driffield Holdco 1 LLP 1 50% Lysander Student Properties Operations Limited 1 75% Driffield Holdco 2 LLP 1 50% Magnetic Limited 1 75% Easingwold Devco LLP 1 50% Notaro Kier LLP 1 50% Easingwold Holdco 1 LLP 1 50% Penda Limited 1 50% Easingwold Holdco 2 LLP 1 50% Premier Inn Kier Limited 1 50% Fore UK I B LP 24 29% Sandy Lane Oxford Management Limited 27 22.5% KCK Peterborough Devco LLP 1 90% Solum Regeneration Bishops LLP 1 50% KCK Peterborough Holdco 1 LLP 1 90% Solum Regeneration Epsom Limited Partnership 1 50% KCK Peterborough Holdco 2 LLP 1 90% Solum Regeneration Guildford LLP 1 50% Kent LEP 1 Limited 1 80% Solum Regeneration Haywards LLP 1 50% Kier Newcastle Investment Ltd 1 75% Solum Regeneration Kingswood LLP 1 50% Kier Newcastle Operation Limited 1 75% Solum Regeneration Maidstone LLP 1 50% Kier Southampton Development Limited 1 75% Solum Regeneration Redhill LLP 1 50% Kier Southampton Investment Limited 1 75% Solum Regeneration Surbiton LLP 1 50% Kier Southampton Operations Limited 1 75% Solum Regeneration Twickenham LLP 1 50% Kier Community Living Holdco 1 LLP 1 69% Solum Regeneration Walthamstow LLP 1 50% Kier Community Living Holdco 2 LLP 1 69% Solum Regeneration Epsom GP Subsidiary 1 50% Limited Kier Community Living LLP 1 69% Solum Regeneration Epsom GP Limited 1 50% Kier Community Living Topco 1 LLP 1 69% Solum Regeneration Epsom Residential LLP 1 50% Kier Community Living Topco 2 LLP 1 69% Solum Regeneration Holding 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Cornwall Street Holdings 1 LLP 1 90% Solum Regeneration Holding 2 LLP 1 50% Kier Cornwall Street Holdings 2 LLP 1 90% Stokesley Devco LLP 1 50% Kier Cornwall Street LLP 1 90% Stokesley Holdco 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Cross Keys Dev LLP 1 90% Stokesley Holdco 2 LLP 1 50% Kier Cross Keys Holdco 1 LLP 1 90% Strawberry Percy Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Cross Keys Holdco 2 LLP 1 90% Strawberry Percy Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Kier Foley Street Holdco 1 LLP 1 90% Strawberry Percy LLP 1 50% Kier Foley Street Holdco 2 LLP 1 90% Transcend Property Limited 29 50% Kier Foley Street LLP 1 90% Tri-Link 140 Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Kier GBE Devco LLP in liquidation 1 85% Tri-Link 140 Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Kier GBE Holdco 1 LLP in liquidation 1 85% Tri-Link 140 LLP 1 50% Kier GBE Holdco 2 LLP in liquidation 1 85% Watford Health Campus Limited 1 50% Kier Hammersmith Holdco Limited 1 50% Watford Health Campus Partnership LLP 1 50% Kier Hammersmith Limited 1 50% Watford Woodlands LLP 1 50% Kier Reading Holdco 1 LLP 1 90% Winsford Devco LLP 1 50% Kier Reading Holdco 2 LLP 1 90% Winsford Holdings 1 LLP 1 50% Kier Reading LLP 1 90% Winsford Holdings 2 LLP 1 50% Kier Richmond Holdings Limited 1 90% Kier Richmond Limited 1 90% Services Construction 2020 Knowsley Limited 1 80.1% Kier Graham Defence Limited 1 50% Hackney Schools for the Future Limited 1 80% Team Van Oord Limited 28 25% 1 See list of registered office details and explanatory notes on page 182.
180 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 180 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Joint operations Joint operation name Description Trading address UK Crossrail Contracts a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, BAM Nuttall Farringdon Road, London ECIM 3HN 300 410 435 Limited and Ferrovial Agroman UK Limited Deephams a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, J Murphy & Deephams Sewage Treatment Wales, Picketts Lock Sons Limited, and Aecom Limited Lane, Edmonton, N9 0BA Hercules a joint arrangement between Kier Construction Limited, Kier Living Limited and Hercules Site Offices, The Wessex Building, MOD Balfour Beatty Lyneham, Calne Road, Lyneham, Chippenham, SN15 4PZ Hinkley Point C a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and BAM Hinkley Point C Construction Site, Wick Moor Drove, Nuttall Limited Bridgwater, Somerset, TA5 1UD KCD a joint arrangement between Kier Integrated Services Limited and Clancy Thames Water Offices, Clear Water Court, Vastern Rd, Docwra Limited Reading, RG1 8DB KMI Plus a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, Central Framework Office, Brunswick House, Hindley J Murphy & Sons Limited, Interserve Project Services Limited and Mouchel Limited Green Business Park, Leigh Road, Hindley Green, Wigan, Greater Manchester, WN2 4TN KMI Water a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, Central Framework Office, Brunswick House, Hindley J Murphy & Sons Limited and Interserve Project Services Limited Green Business Park, Leigh Road, Hindley Green, Wigan, Greater Manchester, WN2 4TN Mersey Gateway a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, Forward Point, Tan House Lane, Widnes, WA8 0SL Samsung C&T ECUK Limited and FCC Construccion S. A. Luton People Mover a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and Hertford Road, Hoddesdon, EN11 9BX VolkerFitzpatrick Ltd HS2 a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and Eiffage 19 Cornwall Street, Birmingham, B3 2DT Gnie Civil Kier WSP a joint arrangement between Kier Integrated Services Limited and WSP UK Limited Northamptonshire Highways, Highways Depot, Harborough Rd, Brixworth, Northants NN6 9BX International The following joint operations, in which the Group participation is between 30% and 65%, operate overseas in the territory indicated: DM Roads Services Pty Ltd a joint arrangement between KHSA Limited and Downer New South Wales, Australia, EDI Works Pty Ltd ACN 166 600 166 DPDP-6003 Residential Project a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and Bluewaters Island, Dubai Bluewaters AI Shafar General Contracting Co LLC MTRC Contract 824 a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and Area 3.6, Tai Kong Po Tsuen, Kam Tin, Yuen Long, Kaden Construction Limited N. T. Hong Kong MTRC Contract 901 a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited, Admiralty Station, Hong Kong Island Laing ORourke Hong Kong Limited and Kaden Construction Limited Saadiyat Rotana Hotel a joint arrangement between Kier Infrastructure and Overseas Limited and Ali Saadiyat Island, Abu Dhabi and Resort Complex and Sons Contracting Co LLC Kier ACC a joint arrangement between Kier Dubai LLC and Arabian Construction Co. SAL AL Qudra Road, Dubai Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 181 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 181 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2018 31 Subsidiaries and other undertakings continued Registered office addresses Number Address Tempsford Hall, Sandy, Bedfordshire, SG19 2BD, UK 1 2 1 More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, UK 3 11 Little Park Farm Road, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 5SN, UK 4 Harbour Head, Harbour View, Kingston 17, Jamaica 5 The Maltings, Sandon, Buntingford, SG9 0RU, UK 6 82 The Maltings, Roydon Road, Stanstead Abbotts, Ware, Hertfordshire, SG12 8HG, UK 7 Unit 39, Vastre Depot Offices, Old Severn Trent Building, Vastre Industrial Estate, Newtown, Powys, SY16 1DZ, UK 8 KPMG LLP, 15 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5GL, UK 9 Sanne Group, 13 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey, UK 10 9-5 & 7-5, Jalan 8 146, Bandar Tasik Selatan, Kuala Lumpur, 57000, Malaysia 11 Grant Thornton, C O Cnr Bank Street and West Independence Sq Street, Basseterre, Saint Kitts and Nevis 12 Unit 869, PO Box: 61967 Level 08, Aya Business Center, Al Gaith Tower, Hamdan Street, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 13 151 Angle Avenue, Jean Paul II et Impasse Duverger, Turgeau, Port-au-Prince, Haiti 14 Unit 1501, P. O.
Box 2, Thuraya Tower, Plot No C-008-001, TECOM, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 15 181 Adelaide Terrace, East Perth, WA 6004, Australia 16 Mason Trinity, Trinity Square, St Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey, UK 17 6th Floor, Emperor Commercial Centre, 39 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong 18 Shorefield House, Kinnegar Drive, Holywood, Co. Down, BT18 9JQ, UK 19 Atria One, 144 Morrison Street, Edinburgh, EH3 8EB, UK 20 5th Floor, Agip House, P. O.
Box 41425, Nairobi, Kenya 21 9, N Azikiwe St. Lagos, Nigeria 22 PO Box 667, 4th Floor, ATCO Building, King Khaled Road, Dammam-31421, KSA, United Arab Emirates 23 Campsie House, Buchanan Business Park, Cumbernauld Road, Stepps, Glasgow, G33 6HZ, UK 18 Savile Row, London, W1S 3PW, UK 24 25 Suite 1a, Willow House, Strathclyde Business Park, Bellshill, Lanarkshire, ML4 3PB, UK 26 Level 2, Triniti 3, Triniti Business Campus, 39 Delhi Road, North Ryde, NSW, 2113, Australia 27 95 Ditchling Road, Brighton, BN1 4ST, UK 28 Bankside House, Henfield Road, Small Dole, Henfield, West Sussex, BN5 9XQ, UK 29 1 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6AN, UK Explanatory notes 1 The share capital of all entities is wholly owned and held indirectly by Kier Group plc unless indicated otherwise.
2 Shares held directly by Kier Group plc.
3 Total interest in entity held by the Group as there are other share class es held by a third party.
4 In some jurisdictions in which the Group operates, share classes are not defined and in these instances, for the purposes of disclosure, these holdings have been classified as ordinary shares.
5 The Group has entered into partnership arrangements with North Tyneside Council whereby the Council has a participating ownership interest and receives a minority share of the profits of Kier North Tyneside Limited.
6 Joint operations are contracted agreements to co-operate on a specific project which is an extension of the Groups existing business.
Joint ventures are ongoing businesses carrying on their own trade.
7 Interests in the above joint ventures are held by subsidiary undertakings.
8 The joint ventures where the Group has an interest in excess of 50% are still considered joint ventures as the Group has joint control.
9 The interest of the Group was sold on 2 July 2018.
182 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 182 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
