Key contacts and advisers Registered office and principal UK address Land Securities Group PLC 100 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL Registered in England and Wales No.
4369054 Company Secretary Tim Ashby Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Investor Relations Edward Thacker Head of Investor Relations Telephone: 44 0 20 7413 9000 Email: investor.
com Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0371 384 2128 Textel: 0371 384 2255 International dialing: 44 121 415 7049 www.
co. uk Auditor Ernst & Young LLP 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF Telephone: 44 0 20 7951 2000 www.
com External advisers Valuer: CBRE Financial adviser: Citigroup Solicitors: Slaughter and May Joint brokers: JP Morgan Cazenove and UBS 198 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Additional information Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Finance lease Net initial yield Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuer of ownership from the lessor to the lessee.
of the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on Adjusted net assets per share the Estimated Net Rental Income expressed as a percentage Net assets per share adjusted to remove the effect of the Gearing of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed fide-recognition of the 2004 bond exchange and cumulative Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar deposits, corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus is in line with EPRA guidance.
Estimated Net Rental Income is instruments.
cumulative fair value movements on financial derivatives determined by the valuer and is based on the passing cash asa percentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, see Adjusted net debt rent less rent payable at the balance sheet date, estimated note 20.
Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on non-recoverable outgoings and void costs including service interest-rate swaps, the adjustment arising from the Gross market value charges, insurance costs and void rates.
fide-recognition of the bond exchange and amounts payable Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the Net rental income under finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of reporting date.
Net rental income is the net operational income arising from subsidiaries and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
Head lease properties, on an accruals basis, including rental income, Book value A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
finance lease interest, rents payable, service charge income The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the and expense, other property related income, direct property Interest Cover Ratio ICR financial statements.
Net rental income is presented A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest BREEAM on a proportionate basis.
It is calculated using revenue Building Research Establishments Environmental profit before interest, divided by net interest excluding the Over-rented Assessment Method.
mark-to-market movement on interest-rate swaps, foreign Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
exchange swaps, bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised Combined Portfolio Passing rent interest and interest on the pension scheme assets and The Combined Portfolio comprises the investment properties The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting liabilities.
The calculation excludes joint ventures.
of the Groups subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated date which includes estimates of turnover rent and estimates basis when not wholly owned, together with our share of IPD of rent to be agreed in respect of outstanding rent review or investment properties held in our joint ventures.
Refers to the MSCI IPD Direct Property indexes which lease renewal negotiations.
Passing rent may be more or less measure the property level investment returns in the UK.
Completed developments than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Completed developments consist of those properties Interest-rate swap Passing rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in previously included in the development programme, which A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange administration save to the extent that rents are expected have been transferred from the development programme an interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of tobe received.
Void units and units that are in a rent-free since 1 April 2016. time.
These are generally used by the Group to convert period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are Development pipeline treated as void, income from temporary lets is included in The development programme together with proposed Investment portfolio passing rents.
The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups subsidiaries, on a proportionately Passing cash rent Development programme consolidated basis where not wholly owned.
Passing cash rent is passing rent excluding units that are in The development programme consists of committed arent free period at the reporting date.
developments Board approved projects with the building Joint venture contract let, authorised developments Board approved, An arrangement in which the Group holds an interest and Planning permission projects under construction and developments which have which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more There are two common types of planning permission: full reached practical completion within the last two years but partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions on the planning permission and outline planning permission.
activities of the joint venture that significantly affect the planning permission results in a decision on the detailed joint ventures returns, including decisions on financial and proposals on how the site can be developed.
The grant of Diluted figures operating policies and the performance and financial afull planning permission will, subject to satisfaction of any Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially position of the operation, require the unanimous consent conditions, mean no further engagement with the local dilutive shares issuable under employee share schemes.
planning authority will be required to build the consented Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP development.
An outline planning permission approves Lease incentives The DRIP provides shareholders with the opportunity to use general principles of how a site can be developed.
Outline Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
cash dividends received to purchase additional ordinary planning permission is granted subject to conditions known Typically, the incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a shares in the Company immediately after the relevant as reserved matters.
Consent must be sought and achieved cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
For accounting dividend payment date.
Full details appear on the for discharge of all reserved matters within a specified purposes the value of the incentive is spread over the Companys website.
time-limit, normally three years from the date outline non-cancellable life of the lease.
Earnings per share planning permission was granted, before building can begin.
LIBOR Profit after taxation attributable to owners divided by the In both the case of full and outline planning permission, The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during thelocal planning authority will resolve to grant permission.
by one bank to another for lending money, often used as a the year.
Atthis stage, the planning permission is granted subject to reference rate in bank facilities.
agreement of legal documents, in particular the s106 EPRA Like-for-like portfolio agreement.
On execution of the s106 agreement, the European Public Real Estate Association.
The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have planning permission will be issued.
Work can begin on EPRA net initial yield been in the portfolio since 1 April 2016, but excluding those satisfaction of any pre-commencement planning EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice which are acquired, sold or included in the development conditions.
Recommendations as the annualised rental income based pipeline at any time since that date.
Pre-let onthe cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of Loan-to-value LTV non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the adevelopment.
Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including gross market value of the property.
It is consistent with the subsidiaries and joint ventures, to the sum of the market Pre-development properties net initial yield calculated by the Groups external valuer.
value of investment properties and the book value of trading Pre-development properties are those properties within the Equivalent yield properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, all like-for-like portfolio which are being managed to align Calculated by the Groups external valuer, equivalent yield on a proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the vacant possession within a three year horizon with a view isthe internal rate of return from an investment property, Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the toredevelopment.
based on the gross outlays for the purchase of a property Security Group divided by the value of secured assets.
Property Income Distribution PID including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to current Market value A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of market rent and such items as voids and non-recoverable Market value is determined by the Groups external valuer, in qualifying profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% expenditure but ignoring future changes in capital value.
accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of its qualifying profits as a PID to its shareholders.
Thecalculation assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
of the estimated amount for which a property should Proposed developments ERV Gross estimated rental value exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer Proposed developments are properties which have not yet The estimated market rental value of lettable space as and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after received final Board approval or are still subject to main determined biannually by the Groups external valuer.
planning conditions being satisfied, but which are more likely investment properties in the development programme, Mark-to-market adjustment to proceed than not.
which have not yet reached practical completion, the ERV An accounting adjustment to change the book value of represents managements view of market rents.
Qualifying activities Qualifying assets anasset or liability to its market value see also fair value The ownership activity of property assets which is held to Fair value movement movement.
earn rental income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an Net assets per share income and capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
asset or liability to its market value see also mark-to-market Equity attributable to owners divided by the number of adjustment.
ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
Net assets per shareis also commonly known as net asset value per share NAV per share.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 199 Glossary continued Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Total property return A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least The change in market value, adjusted for net investment, three-quarters of its profits and assets derived from a plus the net rental income of our investment properties qualifying property rental business.
Income and capital gains expressed as a percentage of opening market value plus the from the property rental business are exempt from tax but time weighted capital expenditure incurred during the year.
the REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits Total Shareholder Return TSR to shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on nonThe growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, qualifying activities in the normal way.
assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase Rental value change additional units of the stock.
Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as Trading properties determined by the Groups external valuer, over the reporting Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current period on a like-for-like basis.
assets in the balance sheet.
Rental income Turnover rent Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
an accruals basis, and adjusted for the spreading of lease Valuation surplus deficit incentives over the term certain of the lease in accordance The valuation surplus deficit represents the increase or with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of decrease in the market value of the Combined Portfolio, ground rents and without deduction for operational adjusted for net investment and the effect of SIC15 under outgoings on car park and commercialisation activities.
The market value of the Combined Portfolio is Return on average capital employed determined by the Groups external valuer.
Group profit before net finance expense, plus joint venture Voids profit before net finance expense, divided by the average Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus allunlet space, including voids where refurbishment work is adjusted net debt.
being carried out and voids in respect of pre-development Return on average equity properties.
Temporary lettings for a period of one year or Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the lessare also treated as voids.
The screen at Piccadilly Lights, average equity shareholders funds.
W1 isexcluded from the void calculation as it will always Revenue profit carry advertising although the number and duration of our Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current agreements with advertisers will vary.
Commercialisation assets and trading properties, profits on long-term lettings are also excluded from the void calculation.
development contracts, valuation movements, fair value Weighted average cost of capital WACC movements on interest-rate swaps and similar instruments Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to finance used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
expense resulting from the amortisation of the bond Weighted average unexpired lease term exchange fide-recognition adjustment, debt restructuring The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases charges, and any other items of an exceptional nature.
other than short-term lettings such as car parks and Reversionary or under-rented advertising hoardings, temporary lettings of less than one Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
year, residential leases and long ground leases.
Reversionary yield Yield shift The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield once the rent reaches the ERV.
Security Group Zone A Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for the Group A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of and properties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for retail space by dividing it into zones parallel with the main the benefit of lenders.
It has the flexibility to raise a variety frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at the front of ofdifferent forms of finance.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of Temporary lettings the zone in front of it.
Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
Topped-up net initial yield Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuer.
It is calculated by making an adjustment tonet initial yield in respect of the annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
Total business return Dividend paid per share in the year plus the change in adjusted diluted net assets per share, divided by adjusted diluted net assets per share at the beginning of the year.
Total cost ratio Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental income before rents payable adjusted for costs recovered through rents butnot separately invoiced.
Total development cost TDC Total development cost refers to the book value of the site atthe commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to develop the scheme from the start ofthe financial year in which the property is added to our development programme, together with capitalised interest, being the Groups borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on the property under development.
Interest is also capitalised on the purchase cost of land or property where it is acquired specifically for redevelopment.
The TDC for trading property development schemes excludes any estimated tax on disposal.
200 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Land Securities Group PLC Cautionary statement Copyright and trade mark notices.
Copyright 2018 Land Securities This Annual Report and Landsecs website may contain Group PLC certain forward-looking statements with respect to Land Landsec, Land Securities, the Securities Group PLC Company and the Groups financial Cornerstone logo, the L Logo and condition, results of its operations and business, and certain Everything is experience are trade plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with marks of the Land Securities Group respect to these items and the economies and markets of companies.
in which the Group operates.
Landsec is the trading name of Land Securities Group PLC.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, All other trade marks and registered identified by their use of a date in the future or such words trade marks are the property of their as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, respective owners.
would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or This report has been printed on estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations Heaven 42 an FSC certified paper or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are containing 100% ECF pulp and not guarantees of future performance.
By their very nature, manufactured at a mill accredited forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, with the ISO 14001 and EMAS speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they environmental standards.
relate to events and depend on circumstances that will Printed by CPI Colour.
CPI Colour are occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and are FSC Chain of uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups Custody certified.
The inks used are ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number vegetable oil based.
of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the political conditions, economies and markets in which the Group operates including the outcome of the negotiations to leave the EU : changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation Design: of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest mslgroup.
Words: Landsec and Tim Rich Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report Photography: or Landsecs website, or made subsequently, which are Andrew Urwin attributable to the Company or any other member of the Luke Hayes Group, or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly Philippa Langley qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Jason Hawkes Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or Landsecs website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
Land Securities Group PLC 100 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL 44 0 20 7413 9000 www.
