Financial Statements Balance sheet management 6 Principal products A significant part of the groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
A description of the principal products offered by the groups segments is outlined below.
The group seeks to manage its exposure to risk through controls which ensure that the residual exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed by the board.
The groups risk appetite framework and the methods used to monitor risk exposures can be found on pages 44 to 49.
Details of the risks associated with the groups principal products and the controls used to manage these risks can be found in Notes 7 and 15 to 17.
Legal & General Retirement LGR Annuity contracts Annuity products provide guaranteed income for a specified time, usually the life of the policyholder, in exchange for a lump sum capital payment.
No surrender value is available under any of these products.
Pension Risk Transfer PRT represents bulk annuities, whereby the group accepts the assets and liabilities of a company pension scheme or a life fund.
These are written predominantly to UK clients, but also to US, Dutch and Irish clients.
Immediate and deferred annuity contracts are also offered to individual policyholders.
Immediate annuities provide a regular income stream to the policyholder, purchased with a lump sum investment, where the income stream starts immediately after the purchase.
The income stream from adeferred annuity is delayed until a specified future date.
A small portfolio of immediate annuities has been written as participating business.
Some non-participating deferred annuities sold by the group contain guaranteed cash options, predominantly minimum factors for commuting partof the annuity income into cash at the date of vesting.
The value of such guaranteed options are currently immaterial.
There is a block of immediate and deferred annuities within the UK non-profit business with benefits linked to changes in the RPI or for a minority the CPI, but with contractual maximum or minimum increases.
In particular, most of these annuities have a provision that the annuity will not reduce if RPI, or for a minority CPI, becomes negative.
The total of such annuities in payment at 31 December 2018 was 830m 2017: 640m.
Thus, 1% negative inflation, which was reversed in the following year, would result in a guarantee cost of approximately 8m 2017: 6m.
Negative inflation sustained over a longer period would give rise to significantly greater guarantee costs.
Some of these guarantee costs have been partially matched through the purchase of negative inflation hedges and limited price indexation swaps.
The group also offers products for individuals that provide a guaranteed level of income over a chosen fixed period of time, in exchange for an initial lump sum payment from the policyholder.
The products can provide a fixed lump sum at maturity and or options to surrender on non-guaranteed terms.
The group has written some deferred annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum pensions.
These options expose the group to interest rate and longevity risk as the cost would be expected to increase with decreasing interest rates and improved longevity.
The market consistent value of these guarantees carried in the balance sheet is 189m at 31 December 2018 2017: 220m.
Longevity insurance contracts The group also provides longevity insurance products for company pension schemes, under which regular payments are made to the scheme reflecting their actual longevity experience, while the scheme makes an agreed set of regular payments in return.
Some policies contain a guaranteed surrender value which is currently immaterial.
Lifetime mortgages Lifetime mortgages are a form of equity release mortgage that provide non-commercial borrowers with a loan secured against their main residence, without the need for regular repayments.
They are regulated retail mortgages offered only to borrowers over the age of 55 through specialist intermediaries.
Interest accrues over the term of the loan and is repayable at the time the principal becomes due.
Loans can be advanced in a single lump sum amount or in several subsequent drawdowns of an agreed facility.
All lifetime mortgages provide a no negative equity guarantee, which means that if the loan is repaid from the sale of the property and if the net sale proceeds are lower than the balance of the loan, the group will accept the net sale proceeds as full settlement.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements 6 Principal products continued Legal & General Investment Management LGIM LGIM offers both active and passive management on either a pooled or segregated basis to clients domiciled globally.
Assets are managed in London, Chicago and Hong Kong on behalf of pension funds, institutional clients, sovereign wealth clients, retail clients and subsidiary companies within the group.
The key products provided by LGIM are Workplace Savings, Institutional Pensions, Segregated Investment Management mandates and CollectiveInvestment Schemes.
The core strategies applied for managing the products are set out below.
Index fund management LGIM provides a diversified range of pooled index funds, providing a wide choice and the ability to pursue specific benchmarks efficiently.
In addition, segregated solutions are offered to institutional clients providing large scale customisation against established market capitalisation weighted and alternative indices.
The LGIM ETF business provides clients access to LGIMs index fund management capabilities via our Exchange Traded Fund platform.
ETF products cover a broad range of traditional and thematic asset classes.
Active fixed income and liquidity management LGIM offers a range of pooled and segregated active fixed income funds.
The LGIM liquidity funds offer institutional investors a solution for their cash management requirements across a range of core currencies.
The liquidity funds aim to deliver competitive returns with a high level of diversification, whilst focusing on capital preservation through portfolios of high quality, liquid assets.
Solutions and Liability Driven Investment LDI LGIM provides a range of pooled and bespoke solutions to help fide-risk defined benefit pension schemes.
These solutions will usually combine active or passive underlying portfolios with derivative overlays designed to meet clients specific requirements.
Solutions also includes a range of pooled multi-asset funds for retail and institutional clients, built using LGIMs expertise in asset allocation which is informed by an in-house research capability.
The underlying asset classes may be managed on an active or passive basis within LGIM.
An allocation strategy service is also offered to institutional clients, which may also allocate some of the portfolio to managers other than LGIM.
Active equity An active equity management business comprising focused teams managing stock selection across different regions.
Real assets LGIM offers a range of pooled funds, segregated accounts and joint ventures investing on behalf of UK and overseas investors across physical real estate, private corporate debt, infrastructure debt and real estate loans.
The business has specialist teams of fund and asset managers and an in-house research team.
Workplace Savings Workplace Savings provides corporate pension scheme solutions to enable companies to meet their auto-enrolment obligations.
Workplace Savings a business division of LGAS operated within LGIM acts as scheme operator and administrator for these products while the customers hold the individual or scheme level pension policies issued by LGAS.
Legal & General Capital LGC Investment strategy and implementation Legal & General Capital manages shareholder assets which are not directly required to meet contractual obligations to policyholders.
LGCs investments fall into two distinct categories: direct investments and traded assets.
The value of, and income from, both categories is sensitive toconditions within investment markets and the broader economy.
Potential volatility in returns is managed using a range of techniques, includingforeign exchange and interest rate hedging, and exposure concentration limits by asset type, sector and geographic region.
Direct investments and structuring Direct investments are an integral part of the wider group strategy.
LGCs direct investments are typically illiquid investments entered into through acquisition, joint venture with strategic partners or by the creation of new companies.
LGC seeks to make direct investments in sectors where there are structural funding shortfalls, and is organised into three sectors: housing, future cities including urban regeneration and clean energy and SME finance including venture capital.
LGC employs capital and sector expertise to such investments to target attractive risk-adjusted returns which can deliver higher returns and or lower volatility for our shareholder capital than listed equity.
132 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Legal & General Insurance LGI LGI business comprises UK and US retail protection, UK group protection, US universal life business and Fintech business.
UK protection business retail and group The group offers protection products which provide mortality or morbidity benefits.
They may include health, disability, critical illness and accident benefits: these additional benefits are commonly provided as supplements to main life policies but can also be sold separately.
The benefit amounts would usually be specified in the policy terms.
Some sickness benefits cover the policyholders mortgage repayments and are linked to the prevailing mortgage interest rates.
In addition to these benefits, some contracts may guarantee premium rates, provide guaranteed insurability benefits and offer policyholders conversion options.
US protection business Protection consists of individual term assurance, which provides death benefits over the medium to long term.
The contracts have level premiums for an initial period with premiums set annually thereafter.
During the initial period, there is generally an option to convert the contract to a universal life contract.
After the initial period, the premium rates are not guaranteed, but cannot exceed the age-related guaranteed premium.
Reinsurance is used within the protection businesses to manage exposure to large claims.
These practices lead to the establishment of reinsurance assets on the groups balance sheet.
Within LGA, reinsurance and securitisation is also used to provide regulatory solvency relief including relief from regulation governing term insurance and universal life reserves.
US universal life Universal life contracts written by LGA provide savings and death benefits over the medium to long term.
The savings element has a guaranteed minimum growth rate.
LGA has exposure to loss in the event that interest rates decrease and it is unable to earn enough on the underlying assets tocover the guaranteed rate.
LGA is also exposed to loss should interest rates increase, as the underlying market value of assets will generally fall without a change in the surrender value.
Annuities Immediate annuities have similar characteristics as products sold by LGR.
Deferred annuity contracts written by LGA contain a provision that, atmaturity, a policyholder may move the account value into an immediate annuity, at rates which are either those currently in effect, or rates guaranteed in the contract.
General Insurance GI General Insurance business comprises Household, Accident Sickness and Unemployment ASU, and Pet products.
Household These contracts provide cover in respect of policyholders homes, investment properties, contents, personal belongings, and incidental liabilities which they may incur as a property owner, occupier and individual.
Exposure is normally limited to the rebuilding cost of the home, the replacement cost of belongings and a policy limit in respect of liability claims.
In addition, there is an additional cover option for Family Legal Protection FLP to cover costs of pursuing certain UK legal proceedings arising from, for example: death personal injury, buying hiring goods or services, infringement ofproperty legal rights and breach of employment contracts.
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment ASU These contracts provide cover in respect of continuing payment liabilities incurred by customers when they are unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Exposure is limited to the monthly payment level selected by the customer sufficient to cover the payment and associated costs, up to the duration limit specified in the policy, usually 12 months.
Pet These contracts provide cover in respect of veterinary treatment of policyholders pets in the event of accident or illness.
In addition, there may be additional cover for death, third party liability as a result of damage or injury caused by their pets, and if the pet is lost or stolen.
Exposure is limited tothe payment limit selected by the customer subject to contract specific inner limits, up to the duration limit specified by the policy which varies per condition, per 12 months and per year.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial Statements 6 Principal products continued 1 Savings A range of contracts are offered in a variety of different forms to meet customers long term savings objectives.
Policyholders may choose to include a number of protection benefits within their savings contracts.
Typically, any guarantees under the contract would only apply on maturity or earlier death.
On certain older contracts there may be provisions guaranteeing surrender benefits.
Savings contracts may or may not guarantee policyholders an investment return.
The contracts fall into three main types: Non-participating savings, pensions and endowment contracts: Participating savings business, comprising endowment contracts, with-profits pensions, with-profits annuities and with-profits bonds: and Unit linked savings contracts and collective investment savings products.
For unit linked savings contracts and collective investment savings products, there is a direct link between the investments and the obligations.
Thegroup is not directly exposed to any market risk, currency risk or credit risk for these contracts.
As a result, risk disclosures have not been presented inrespect of the associated assets and liabilities.
Unit linked business is written both inside and outside the with-profits fund.
Pensions individual and corporate These are long term savings contracts through which policyholders accumulate pension benefits.
Some older contracts contain a basic guaranteed benefit expressed as an amount of pension payable or a guaranteed annuity option.
Other options provided by these contracts include an open market option on maturity, early retirement and late retirement.
The group would generally have discretion over the terms on which the latter typesofoptions are offered.
With-profits annuities These annuity contracts provide a regular income, the amount of which is determined by the addition of regular and temporary bonuses.
Endowment policies These contracts provide a lump sum on maturity determined by the addition of annual and final bonuses over the duration of the contract.
Inaddition, the contracts provide a minimum sum assured death benefit.
With-profits bonds These contracts provide an investment return to the policyholder which is determined by the addition of regular and final bonuses over the duration ofthe contract.
In addition, the contracts provide a death benefit, typically of 101% of the value of the units allocated to the policyholder.
Participating contracts The with-profits fund ceased writing new business on 31 January 2015.
Only increases to existing pension policies and new members to existing Group Personal Pension Schemes, where allowed for in the policy terms and conditions, have been accepted after that date.
Regular premiums inpayment at the date of closure also continue to be accepted.
Discretionary increases to benefits on participating contracts are allowed in one or both of annual and final bonus form.
Some older participating contracts include a guaranteed minimum rate of roll up of the policyholders fund up to the date of retirement or maturity.
Bonuses are determined inaccordance with the principles outlined in the Funds Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM for the management of the with-profits fund.
The principles include: The with-profits fund will be managed with the objective of ensuring that its assets are sufficient to meet its liabilities and other regulatory andcapital requirements without the need for additional capital from outside the with-profits fund: Bonus rates will be smoothed so that some of the short term fluctuations in the value of the investments of the with-profits fund and the businessresults achieved in the with-profits fund are not immediately reflected in payments under with-profits policies.
The inherited estate is the excess of assets held within the with-profits fund over and above the amount required to meet liabilities, including thosewhich arise from the regulatory duty to treat customers fairly in settling discretionary benefits.
Following the closure to new businesses of thewith-profits fund on 31 January 2015, the Board agreed a run-off plan.
They consider annually whether part of the inherited estate should be distributed to with-profits policyholders.
In adverse circumstances this may result in a deduction from investment returns in order to increase the value of the inherited estate.
The amount and timing of any distribution from or increase to the inherited estate shall be determined by theBoard.
In November 2018, the Board approved a 0.2% refund in respect of guarantee charges and options, and a 0.3% addition to asset share reflecting a distribution of part of the estate.
The distribution of surplus to shareholders depends upon the bonuses declared for the year.
Typically, bonus rates are set having regard to investment returns, although the group has some discretion setting rates and would normally smooth bonuses over time.
The volatility of investment returns could impact the funds capital position and its ability to pay bonuses.
If future investment conditions were less favourable thananticipated, the lower bonus levels resulting would also reduce future distributions to shareholders.
The estate would normally be expected toabsorb the impact of these investment risks.
Only in extreme scenarios, where shareholders were required to provide support to the with-profitsfund to meet its liabilities, would these risks affect shareholder equity.
Since the groups announcement to sell the Mature Savings business to Swiss Re in December 2017 we have entered into a Risk Transfer Agreement with ReAssure Limited a subsidiary of Swiss Re.
Until formal legal transfer of the business to Swiss Re is complete, all asset risk exposure related to the Mature Savings business is effectively transferred to ReAssure Limited by this agreement.
In December 2017, the group announced the sale of its Mature Savings business to Swiss Re.
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and the Part VII transfer is expected to complete in 2019.
134 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 7 Asset risk The group is exposed to the following categories of asset risk as a consequence of offering the principal products outlined in Note 6.
The group isalso exposed to insurance risk as a consequence of offering these products more detail on insurance risk can be found in Note 17.
Market risk Exposure to loss as a direct or indirect result of fluctuations in the value of, or income from, specific assets.
Credit risk Exposure to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the group.
Liquidity risk The risk that the group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they falldue, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The financial risks associated with LGIMs businesses are directly borne by the investors in its funds.
Therefore detailed risk disclosures have notbeen presented.
The group seeks to manage its exposures to risk through controls which ensure that the residual risk exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed by the Board.
A description of the risks associated with the groups principal products and the associated controls is detailed below.
Market risk Product business Principal risks segment Controls to mitigate the risk Investment performance risk The group is exposed to the risk that the income Annuities and Protection Stochastic models are used to assess the impact of a range of future return from, and value of, assets held to back insurance scenarios on investment values and associated liabilities in order to determine liabilities do not perform in line with investment optimum portfolios of invested assets.
For immediate annuities, which are andproduct pricing assumptions, leading to a sensitive to interest rate risk, analysis of the liabilities is undertaken to create potential financial loss.
aportfolio of securities, the value of which changes in line with the value of liabilities when interest rates change.
1 The financial risk exposure for participating contracts With-profits These risks are managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover the consequences is different from that for non-participating business.
ofmismatches under a number of adverse scenarios.
In addition, different investment Lower investment returns increase the costs strategies are followed for assets backing policyholder asset shares and assets associated with maturity and investment guarantees backing other participating liabilities and surplus.
The former include significant equity provided on these contracts.
Greater emphasis is and property holdings, whilst the latter are invested largely in fixed interest securities.
placed on investing to maximise future investment Theassets held are managed so as to provide a partial hedge to movements in fixed returns rather than matching assets to liabilities.
interest yields and equity markets.
The methodology used to calculate the liabilities Thisresults in holding significant equity and property forparticipating contracts makes allowance for the possibility of adverse changes investments.
ininvestment markets on a basis consistent with the market cost of hedging the guarantees provided.
The methodology also makes allowance for the cost of future discretionary benefits, guarantees and options.
The value of future discretionary benefits depends onthe return achieved on assets backing these contracts.
The asset mix varies with investment conditions reflecting the groups investment policy, which aims to optimise returns to policyholders over time whilst limiting capital requirements for this business.
For unit linked contracts, there is a risk of volatility in Unit linked The risk is managed through maintaining a diversified range of funds in which asset management fee income due to the impact of customers may invest.
The performance of linked investment funds relative to interest rate and market price movements on the fair theirinvestment objectives is subject to regular monitoring.
Periodic assessment value of the assets held in the linked funds, on which isalso made of the long term profitability to the group of these funds.
For some investment management fees are based.
There is also contracts the group has discretion over the level of management charges levied.
the risk of expense over-runs should the market depress the level of charges which could be imposed.
Property risk Lifetime mortgages include a no negative equity Lifetime mortgages To mitigate the risk, maximum loan to value ratios are set for all lending with guarantee which transfers an exposure to loss to further underwriting criteria setting out acceptable properties for lending purposes.
thegroup as a result of low house price inflation andan Policy terms also require properties to be fully insured and maintained, including exposure to specific properties which may experience the right ofinspection.
Diversification of lending by property type and geographic lower house price inflation for whatever reason.
region seekto control exposures to specific aspects of the property market.
LGC businesses build homes across the residential LGC Diversification by geographic region and property type avoids concentration of market, invest in large commercial and residential exposures to specific areas of the property market.
Sites are developed in a development projects and manage several developed number of phases to spread the risk to a local market over several years and real-estate assets.
The groups revenue streams are where possible we seek to co-invest with local experts to manage assets.
The exposed to residential sales achieved, as well as the purchasing of new land for development requires approval from LGCs Investment volume of transactions, both of which may be affected Committee and the Group Capital Committee.
Where appropriate, key methods by the performance of the housing market.
Independent are adopted to further manage the risk, such as fixed price construction contracts, valuations of real-estate assets, either in development or forward sales and pre-letting.
These businesses can also benefit from flexible developed, also depend on an assessment of the wider funding arrangements available through the group.
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and the Part VII transfer isexpectedto complete in 2019.
Since the announcement the group has entered into a risk transfer agreement with ReAssure Limited a subsidiary of Swiss Re.
UntilthePart VII transfer is completed the asset risks are effectively transferred to ReAssure Limited by this agreement.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial Statements 7 Asset risk continued Market risk Product business Principal risks segment Controls to mitigate the risk Currency risk To diversify credit risk within the annuities business Annuities, LGC and LGI To mitigate the risk of loss from currency fluctuations, currency swaps and corporate bond portfolio, investments are held in forwards are used to hedge exposures to corporate bonds denominated in corporate bonds denominated in non-sterling currencies other than sterling.
Hedging arrangements are placed with strongly currencies.
LGC also invest in overseas assets.
rated counterparties with collateral requirements being subject to regular Fluctuations in the value of, or income from, these reviewand reconciliation with the counterparties.
In all cases, it is not possible assets relative to liabilities denominated in sterling toperfectly hedge currency risk, leading to some residual risk.
could result in unforeseen loss.
The consolidated international subsidiaries and Group and LGC To mitigate the risk of loss from currency translation the company continuously financial instruments of subsidiaries are translated into monitors its exposure and executes appropriate hedging transactions when sterling in the consolidated accounts.
Hedging arrangements are placed with strongly rated counterparties sterling value can impact consolidated equity but may withcollateral requirements being subject to regular review and reconciliation be mitigated by associated hedging transactions.
Inflation risk Inflation risk is the potential for loss as a result of Annuities The investment strategy for annuities business takes explicit account of the effect relative or absolute changes in inflation rates.
Annuity ofmovements in price indices on contracted liabilities.
Significant exposures that contracts may provide for future benefits to be paid mayadversely impact profitability are hedged using inflation swaps.
Annuity taking account of changes in the level of inflation.
contracts alsotypically provide for a cap on the annual increase in inflation linked Annuity contracts in payment may include an annual benefits in payment.
It is not possible to perfectly hedge inflation risk linked with adjustment for movements in price indices.
contracted liabilities, leading to some residual risk.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the group is exposed Annuities To mitigate the risk that guarantees and commitments are not met, financial to lower returns or loss as a direct or indirect result of instruments are purchased, which broadly match the expected non-participating policy benefits payable, by their nature and term.
The composition of the fluctuations in the value of, or income from, specific assets and liabilities arising from changes in investment portfolio is governed by the nature of the insurance or savings liabilities, the expected rate of return applicable on each class of asset and the underlying interest rates.
capital available to meet the price fluctuations for each asset class, relative to theliabilities they support.
The group is exposed to interest rate risk on the Group and LGC Asset liability matching significantly reduces the groups exposure to interest investment portfolio it maintains to meet the raterisk.
IFRS sensitivity to interest rate changes is included in Note 19. obligations and commitments under its non-linked insurance and investment contracts, in that the proceeds from the assets may not be sufficient to meet the groups obligations to policyholders.
Credit risk Product business Principal risks segment Controls to mitigate the risk Bond default risk A significant portfolio of corporate bonds and Annuities, General Portfolio level and specific issuer limits are set by financial strength rating, sector commercial loans are held to back the liabilities arising Insurance, and LGIA andgeographic region so as to limit exposure from a default event.
Issuer limits are from writing general insurance and annuities business.
regularly reviewed to take account of changes in market conditions, sector Whilst the portfolio is diversified, the asset class is performance and the re-assessment of financial strength by rating agencies and the inherently exposed to the risk of issuer default, with groups own internal analysts.
Exposures are monitored relative to limits.
Financial thepossibility of financial loss.
instruments are also used to mitigate the impact of rating downgrades and defaults.
Ifappropriate, actions are taken to trade out investments at risk of default.
Reinsurance counterparty risk Exposure to insurance risk is mitigated by ceding part Protection, Annuities, When selecting new reinsurance partners for its protection business, the group of the risks assumed to the reinsurance market.
General Insurance, considers only companies which have a minimum credit rating equivalent to Afrom Default of a reinsurer would require the business to be and LGIA Standard & Poors.
For each reinsurer, exposure limits are determined based on re-brokered, potentially on less advantageous terms, credit ratings and projected exposure over the term of the treaty.
Actual exposures or for the risks to be borne directly resulting are regularly monitored relative to these limits.
Similarly, for longevity and credit risk inpossible financial loss.
Credit risk syndication also syndication transactions, the group targets the use of strongly rated counterparties exposes the group to counterparty default risks.
The and seeks to ensure that positions are fully collateralised.
The adequacy and quality group is required to carry an element of associated ofcollateral is subject to ongoing monitoring.
credit risk capital on its balance sheet should the business not be re-brokered on the same terms.
Property lending counterparty risk As part of our asset diversification strategy, we Annuities and LGC Each property lending and sale and leaseback investment transaction is subject to a due diligence process to assess the credit risks implicit in the transaction and holdproperty lending and sale and leaseback investments.
We are inherently exposed to the riskof confirm that any risk of default has been appropriately mitigated.
We also protect our interests through taking security over the underlying property associated with default by a borrower or tenant.
136 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Credit risk Product business Principal risks segment Controls to mitigate the risk Banking counterparty risk The group is exposed to potential financial loss should Group and LGC The group controls its exposures to banking counterparties and the issuers of banks or the issuers of financial instruments default on financial instruments using a framework of counterparty limits.
These limits take their obligations to us.
We are also exposed to account of the relative financial strength of the counterparty as well as other counterparty risks in respect of the providers of exposures that the group may have.
Limits are subject to regular review with actual settlement and custody services.
The group has defined criteria for the selection of custody and settlement services.
The financial strength of providers is regularly reviewed.
Liquidity Risk Product business Principal risks segment Controls to mitigate the risk Contingent event risk Events that result in liquidity risk include a flu LGI, General Insurance The group seeks to ensure that it meets its obligations as they fall due and avoids pandemic or natural disaster leading to significantly and Group incurring material losses on forced asset sales in order to meet those obligations.
A higher levels of claims than would normally be limited level of contingent liquidity risk is, however, an accepted element of writing expected, or extreme events impacting the timing of insurance contracts.
It is furthermore a consequence of the markets in which the cash flows or the ability to realise investments at a group operates and the executions of investment management strategies.
given value within a specified timeframe.
However, the groups insurance businesses seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of the cash outflows that may arise from contingent events.
The level of required liquidity is identified using techniques including stress tests for shock events and the profile of actual liquid assets regularly compared to the required liability profile.
The groups treasury function provides formal facilities to other areas of the group to cover contingent liquidity requirements arising from more extreme events and where investment assets may not be readily realisable.
Collateral liquidity risk Within the annuities business, the use offinancial LGR Liquidity requirements to meet potential collateral calls under stressed conditions instruments to hedge default, interest rate, currency areactively managed and an appropriate pool of eligible assets specified in the and inflation risks can require the posting of collateral agreements with counterparties is maintained.
As at 31 December 2018, LGR with counterparties at short notice.
held eligible collateral worth four times the total amount of outstanding collateral using the most representative definition of collateral contained within the groups different collateral agreements.
Investment liquidity risk 1 Within the with-profit fund, exposure to liquidity risk Savings Liquidity risk is managed ensuring that an appropriate proportion of the fund is may arise if the profile of investment assets held to held incash or other readily realisable assets to meet each tranche of maturities meet obligations to policyholders is not aligned with and anticipated early withdrawals as they fall due.
Where policyholders have the maturity profile of policies, or the profile does not discretion torequire early payment of policy proceeds, contractual safeguards are adequately take account of the rights of policyholders in place toensure that the fund and remaining policyholders are not to exercise options or guarantees to specified early disadvantaged should amaterial number of policyholders exercise this discretion.
surrender terms or minimum rates of return.
1 Non-participating savings contracts are exposed to Savings Liquidity risks associated with non-participating savings contracts are liquidity risk in that certain asset classes in which documented and communicated to customers within product terms and underlying funds invest, such as property, may not be conditions.
The terms also highlight that for certain asset classes such as readily realisable in certain market conditions, or only property, the group retains the right to defer the processing of fund withdrawal realisable at a reduced value.
requests for up to six months, shouldunderlying assets need to be realised to meet payment requests.
Direct lending, sale and leaseback investments and LGR and LGC Given the illiquid nature of the annuity and other liabilities the group is able and lifetime mortgage business are inherently illiquid willing to take advantage of the premium offered by illiquid assets.
The group, forms of investment, with limited secondary markets however, sets limits on the overall exposure to illiquid investments taking account to realise the value of assets outside agreed of the nature and type of liabilities that the assets are held to meet.
As at 31 December 2018, the group had 3.6bn 2017: 3.6bn of cash and cash equivalents in shareholder funds and non profit non-unit linked funds and a 1.0bn syndicated committed revolving credit facility in place, provided by a number of its key relationship banks, maturing in December 2022.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial Statements 8 Assets analysis The group has categorised its assets and liabilities in the following disclosure in accordance with the level of shareholder exposure to market and credit risks.
Various reinsurance arrangements are in place as a mechanism to mitigate the risks including a risk transfer agreement with ReAssure Limited a subsidiary of Swiss Re whereby the group transfers all economic risks and rewards of the Mature Savings business to Swiss Re from the effective date of 1 January 2018.
The four categorisations presented are: Unit linked For unit linked contracts, there is a direct link between the investments and the obligations.
Unit linked business is written in both Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Management Limited.
The financial risk on these contracts is borne by the policyholders.
The group is therefore not directly exposed to any market risk, currency risk or credit risk for these contracts.
As a result, risk disclosures have not been presented for unit linked assets and liabilities.
With-profits Policyholders and shareholders share in the risks and returns of the with-profits fund.
The return to shareholders on virtually all participating products is in the form of a transfer to shareholders equity, which is analogous to a dividend from the fund and is dependent upon the bonuses credited or declared on policies in that year.
The bonuses are broadly based on historic and current rates of return on equity, property and fixed income securities, as well as expectations of future investment returns.
The with-profits classification excludes unit linked contracts.
Non profit non-unit linked Shareholders are exposed to the risk and rewards of ownership of assets backing non profit non-unit linked business.
Shareholder All other assets are classified as shareholder assets.
Shareholders of the group are directly exposed to market and credit risk on these assets.
This includes the assets and liabilities of our overseas insurance operations and general insurance.
The table below presents an analysis of the balance sheet by category.
All of the quantitative risk disclosures in Notes 15 and 16 have been provided using this categorisation.
138 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Assets Goodwill and Purchased interests in long term businesses and other intangible assets 285 3 288 Investment in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method 259 259 Property, plant and equipment 56 1 57 1 Investments 10,905 67,177 2,224 374,478 454,784 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 343 4,343 51 4,737 Other assets 2,628 748 2,782 6,158 Assets of operations classified as held for sale 37 459 7,825 17,913 26,234 Total assets 14,513 72,731 10,049 395,224 492,517 Liabilities Core borrowings 3,963 41 3,922 Operational borrowings 909 56 61 1,026 Non-participating contract liabilities 677 64,203 292,907 357,787 Other liabilities 3,558 4,714 3 83,013 91,288 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 1 505 10,054 19,282 29,842 Total liabilities 9,108 69,478 10,057 395,222 483,865 Non profit non-unit WithUnit Shareholder linked profits linked Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Assets Goodwill and Purchased interests in long term businesses 144 5 149 and other intangible assets Investment in associates and joint ventures accounted 252 252 for using the equity method Property, plant and equipment 58 1 59 1 Investments 9,804 61,505 3,038 394,844 469,191 2 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 225 5,031 289 5,545 2 Other assets 1,321 745 86 4,420 6,572 Assets of operations classified as held for sale 133 510 8,545 13,396 22,584 Total assets 11,937 67,797 11,669 412,949 504,352 Liabilities Core borrowings 3,517 58 3,459 Operational borrowings 395 29 114 538 2 Non-participating contract liabilities 550 60,829 315,580 376,959 2 Other liabilities 2,463 3,959 59 75,365 81,846 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 1 507 11,575 21,875 33,958 Total liabilities 6,926 65,295 11,663 412,876 496,760 1.
Investments includes financial investments, investment property and cash and cash equivalents.
Following a change in accounting policy for LGIA term assurance reserves, a number of balance sheet items have been restated, notably deferred acquisition costs, reinsurers share of contract liabilities, non-participating insurance contracts, deferred tax liabilities and other liabilities.
Further details on the change in accounting policy are provided in Note 1.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial Statements 9 Purchased interest in long term businesses PILTB and other intangible assets Portfolios of in-force insurance or investment contracts acquired either directly or through the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking are capitalisedat fair value.
The value of business acquired represents the present value of anticipated future profits in acquired contracts.
These amounts are amortised over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
Other intangible assets mainly consist of customer relationships, brand and capitalised software costs.
Intangible assets acquired via business combinations are recognised at fair value and are subsequently amortised on a straight line method over their estimated useful life.
Where software costs are separately identifiable and measurable, they are capitalised at cost and amortised over their expected useful life on a straight line basis.
Purchased interest in long term businesses and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value inuse.
PILTB PILTB Other insurance investment intangible contracts contracts assets Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m Cost As at 1 January 377 33 211 621 1 Additions 119 119 Increase due to currency translation 14 14 As at 31 December 391 33 330 754 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 365 33 82 480 Amortisation for the year 1 33 34 Increase due to currency translation 14 14 As at 31 December 380 33 115 528 Total net book value as at 31 December 11 215 226 2 Less: assets of operations classified as held for sale 3 Net book value as at 31 December 223 3 To be amortised within 12 months 40 3 To be amortised after 12 months 186 1.
Other intangible assets include 42m related to acquisitions made during the year.
Detailed disclosure related to assets of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
The maturity analysis of the assets between less and more than 12 months is based on the Total net book value as at 31 December.
140 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management PILTB PILTB Other insurance investment intangible contracts contracts assets Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m Cost As at 1 January 398 65 235 698 Additions 40 40 Disposals 29 65 94 Decrease increase due to currency translation 21 3 1 23 As at 31 December 377 33 211 621 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 385 52 106 543 Amortisation for the year 1 12 35 48 Impairment 4 4 Disposals 29 65 94 Decrease increase due to currency translation 21 2 2 21 As at 31 December 365 33 82 480 Total net book value as at 31 December 12 129 141 1 Less: assets of operations classified as held for sale 3 Net book value as at 31 December 138 2 To be amortised within 12 months 31 2 To be amortised after 12 months 110 1.
Detailed disclosure relating to assets of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial Statements 10 Deferred acquisition costs The group incurs costs to obtain and process new business.
These are accounted for in line with the appropriate accounting standards as follows: Long term insurance business Acquisition costs comprise direct costs, such as initial commission, and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Some acquisition costs relating to non-participating insurance contracts written outside the with-profits fund which are incurred during a financial year are deferred by use of an asset which is amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable, and in accordance with the expected incidence of future related margins.
For participating contracts, acquisition costs are charged to the income statement when incurred.
General insurance A proportion of commission and other acquisition costs relating to unearned premiums is carried forward as deferred acquisition costs or, in respect of reinsurance outwards, as deferred income.
Investment contracts For participating investment contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
These costs are charged to the income statement when incurred.
For non-participating investment contracts, only directly attributable costs relating to investment management services which vary with, and are related to, securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are capitalised and amortised over the period during which the service is provided on a straight line basis.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Insurance Investment Insurance Investment contracts contracts Total contracts contracts Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m As at 1 January 99 479 578 1,541 564 2,105 Acquisition costs deferred 121 2 123 225 2 227 Amortisation charged to income statement 114 3 117 169 76 245 1 Change in accounting policy 1,367 1,367 Increase decrease due to currency translation 6 6 131 131 Other 12 12 11 11 99 479 578 Total as at 31 December 112 466 578 2 Less: assets of operations classified as held for sale 438 438 438 438 As at 31 December 112 28 140 99 41 140 3 To be amortised within 12 months 67 31 98 59 60 119 3 To be amortised after 12 months 45 435 480 40 419 459 1.
Change in accounting policy represents the cumulative impact of the change in accounting policy related to LGIA term assurance reserves, described in Note 1.
The change has been applied retrospectively.
The maturity analysis of the assets between less and more than 12 months is based on the Total as at 31 December.
142 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 11 Financial investments and investment property The group holds financial investments and investment property to back insurance contracts on behalf of policyholders and as group capital.
The group classifies its financial investments on initial recognition as held for trading HFT, designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, available-for-sale AFS or loans and receivables.
Initial recognition of financial investments is on the trade date.
The groups policy is to measure investments at FVTPL except for certain overseas assets where the related liability is valued on a passive basis not using current information, in which case investments are classified as AFS or loans held at amortised cost.
All derivatives other than those designated as hedges are classified as HFT.
Certain financial investments held by the group are designated as FVTPL as their performance is evaluated on a total return basis, consistent with asset performance reporting to the Group Investment and Market Risk Committee and the groups investment strategy.
Assets designated as FVTPL include debt securities including lifetime mortgages and equity instruments which would otherwise have been classified as AFS and reverse repurchase agreements within loans which would otherwise be designated at amortised cost.
Assets backing participating and non-participating policyholder liabilities outside the US are designated as FVTPL.
For participating contracts the assets are managed on a fair value basis to maximise the total return to policyholders over the contract life.
The groups non-participating investment contract liabilities outside of the US are measured on the basis of current information and are designated as FVTPL to avoid an accounting mismatch in the income statement.
Financial investments classified as HFT and FVTPL are measured at fair value with gains and losses reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Financial investments classified as AFS are measured at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised in a separate reserve within equity.
Realised gains and losses, impairment losses, dividends, interest and foreign exchange movements on non-equity instruments are reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Directly attributable transaction costs are included in the initial measurement of the investment.
Financial investments classified as loans are either measured at FVTPL, or initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The FVTPL classification currently only applies to reverse repurchase agreements.
Financial investments are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial investments are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the investment expire, or when the group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to another entity.
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for impairment at each balance sheet date.
They are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events after initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been affected.
Investment property comprises land and buildings which are held for long term rental yields and capital growth.
It is carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement within investment return.
Investment property in the UK is valued bi-annually by external chartered surveyors at open market values in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors or using internal valuations and estimates during the intervening period.
Outside the UK, valuations are produced in conjunction with external qualified professional valuers in the countries concerned.
In the event of a material change in market conditions between the valuation date and balance sheet date, an internal valuation is performed and adjustments made to reflect any material changes in fair value.
The group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or non-cash assets in respect of various transactions, in order to reduce the credit risk of these transactions.
The amount and type of collateral required where the group receives collateral depends on an assessment of the credit risk ofthe counterparty.
Collateral received in the form of cash, where the group has contractual rights to receive the cash flows generated, is recognised as an asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a corresponding liability for its repayment.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, unless the counterparty defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement.
Non-cash collateral pledged where the group retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows generated is not derecognised from the Consolidated Balance Sheet, unless the group defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement.
Cash collateral pledged, where the counterparty has contractual rights to receive the cash flows generated, is derecognised from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and a corresponding receivable is recognised for its return.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial Statements 11 Financial investments and investment property continued Non profit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Note m m m m m Financial investments at fair value classified as: Fair value through profit or loss 6,526 57,560 8,976 359,054 432,116 Available-for-sale 1,537 1,537 Held for trading 18 4,393 51 5,603 10,065 Loans at fair value 11 ii 371 486 45 8,304 9,206 Financial investments at fair value 8,452 62,439 9,072 372,961 452,924 Loans at amortised cost 11 ii 456 456 Total financial investments 8,908 62,439 9,072 372,961 453,380 1 Investment property 166 2,930 520 4,992 8,608 Total financial investments and investment property 9,074 65,369 9,592 377,953 461,988 Less: assets of operations classified 7,602 16,923 24,525 1 as held for sale Total financial investments and investment property 9,074 65,369 1,990 361,030 437,463 2 Expected to be recovered within 12 months 56,823 2 Expected to be recovered after 12 months 405,165 1.
Investment property includes 1,643m relating to assets of operations classified as held for sale.
The maturity analysis of the assets between less and more than 12 months is based on Total financial investments and investment property.
Non profit non-unit 1 Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Note m m m m m Financial investments at fair value classified as: Fair value through profit or loss 5,742 52,828 9,477 373,210 441,257 Available-for-sale 1,280 8 1,288 Held for trading 39 3,948 98 7,429 11,514 Loans at fair value 11 ii 316 363 116 7,874 8,669 Financial investments at fair value 7,377 57,139 9,691 388,521 462,728 Loans at amortised cost 11 ii 496 496 Total financial investments 7,873 57,139 9,691 388,521 463,224 2 Investment property 110 2,722 658 4,847 8,337 Total financial investments and investment property 7,983 59,861 10,349 393,368 471,561 Less: assets of operations classified 56 8,114 13,119 21,289 2 as held for sale Total financial investments and investment property 7,927 59,861 2,235 380,249 450,272 3 Expected to be recovered within 12 months 58,803 3 Expected to be recovered after 12 months 412,758 1.
Following the change in accounting policy for LGIA term assurance, 223m of shareholder financial investments at fair value classified as available-for-sale have been reclassified to fair value through profit or loss.
Further details of the change in accounting policy are provided in Note 1.
Investment property includes 1,227m relating to assets of operations classified as held for sale.
Investment risks on unit linked assets are borne by the policyholders.
The remaining risks associated with financial investments are outlined in Note 7.
144 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Financial investments, cash and cash equivalents include 2,654m 2017: 1,788m of assets pledged as collateral against net derivative liability counterparty positions.
The assets used as collateral are Treasury Gilts, Foreign Government Bonds, AAA and AA Corporate Bonds and Cash 2017: Treasury Gilts, Foreign Government Bonds, AAA and AA Corporate Bonds and Cash having a residual maturity of over 25 years 2017: over 32 years.
The group is entitled to receive all of the cash flows from the asset during the period when it is pledged as collateral.
Further, there is no obligation to pay or transfer these cash flows to another entity.
The group can decide to substitute an asset which is designated as collateral at any time, provided the relevant terms and conditions of the International Swap Dealers Association agreement are met.
Financial investments include 43,775m 2017: 32,358m of assets that have been sold but not derecognised and are subject to repurchase agreements.
The related obligation to repurchase the financial assets is included within Payables and other financial liabilities Note 24.
Various pension risk transfer deals include collateralised structures.
6,799m 2017: 6,653m of Corporate Bonds and Treasury Gilts are pledged ascollateral in relation to these.
Financial investments have been allocated between those expected to be settled within 12 months and after 12 months in line with the expected settlement of the backed liabilities.
Assets in excess of the insurance and investment contract liabilities have been classified as expected to be settled after 12 months.
Non profit non-unit linked debt securities include 2.0bn 2017: 2.2bn of commercial real estate loans and 3.2bn 2017: 2.0bn of lifetime mortgages designated asfairvalue through profit and loss.
Accrued interest in the above tables represents accrued interest on debt securities only.
Accrued interest on loans at fair value is included withinloans at fair value.
Property investments which are held via partnerships or unit trust vehicles are also included within equity securities.
A gain of 18m 2017: gain of13m has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of the movement in fair value of these investments.
Included within unit linked equity securities are 214m 2017: 282m of debt instruments which incorporate an embedded derivative linked to thevalue of the groups share price.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial Statements 11 Financial investments and investment property continued ii Loans Non profit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m Loans at amortised costs Policy loans 38 38 1 Other loans and receivables 418 418 456 456 Loans at fair value Reverse repurchase agreements 371 486 45 8,304 9,206 Total loans 827 486 45 8,304 9,662 Non profit non-unit Shareholder linked With-profits Unit linked Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Loans at amortised costs Policy loans 37 37 1 Other loans and receivables 459 459 496 496 Loans at fair value Reverse repurchase agreements 316 363 116 7,874 8,669 Total loans 812 363 116 7,874 9,165 1.
Other loans and receivables include 354m 2017: 324m of US commercial mortgage loans.
There are no material differences between the carrying values reflected above and the fair values of these loans.
iii Fair value hierarchy Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair value measurements are based on observable and unobservable inputs.
Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the groups view of market assumptions in the absence of observable market information.
The group utilises techniques that maximise the use of observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable inputs.
The levels of fair value measurement bases are defined as follows: Level 1: fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: fair values measured using valuation techniques for all inputs significant to the measurement other than quoted prices included within level1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: fair values measured using valuation techniques for any input for the asset or liability significant to the measurement that is not based onobservable market data unobservable inputs.
The groups financial assets are valued, where possible, using standard market pricing sources, such as IHS Markit, ICE and Bloomberg, or Index Providers such as Barclays, Merrill Lynch or JPMorgan.
Each uses mathematical modelling and multiple source validation in order to determine consensus prices, with the exception of OTC Derivative holdings: OTCs are marked to market using an in-house system Lombard Oberon, external vendor IHS Markit, internal model or Counterparty Broker marks.
In normal market conditions, we would consider these market prices tobe observable and therefore classify them as Level 1.
Where inputs to the valuation have been sourced from a market that is not suitably active the prices have been classified as Level 2.
Refer to Note 11 iii a for Level 3 methodology.
The groups policy is to re-assess categorisation of financial assets at the end of each reporting period and to recognise transfers between levels atthat point in time.
There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in 2018 other than those noted above 2017: no significant transfers.
146 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 For the year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Shareholder Equity securities 2,322 1,432 890 Debt securities 5,708 1,851 3,199 658 Accrued interest 33 15 15 3 Derivative assets 18 7 11 Investment property 166 166 Loans at fair value 371 371 Non profit non-unit linked Equity securities 205 194 1 10 Debt securities 56,864 7,031 36,937 12,896 Accrued interest 491 20 446 25 Derivative assets 4,393 4,336 57 Investment property 2,930 2,930 Loans at fair value 486 486 With-profits Equity securities 2,936 2,742 194 Debt securities 5,988 1,707 4,277 4 Accrued interest 52 15 37 Derivative assets 51 5 46 Investment property 520 520 Loans at fair value 45 45 Unit linked Equity securities 172,103 169,414 2,026 663 Debt securities 185,892 131,679 53,941 272 Accrued interest 1,059 502 557 Derivative assets 5,603 428 5,175 Investment property 4,992 4,992 Loans at fair value 8,304 8,304 1, 2 Total financial investments and investment property at fair value 461,532 317,042 120,210 24,280 1.
This table excludes loans including accrued interest of 456m, which are held at amortised cost.
This table includes financial investments of 22,882m and investment property of 1,643m relating to assets of operations classified as held for sale, included in Note 27.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial Statements 11 Financial investments and investment property continued iii Fair value hierarchy continued Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 For the year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Shareholder Equity securities 2,418 1,743 1 674 Debt securities 4,575 1,134 3,076 365 Accrued interest 24 7 14 3 Derivative assets 44 33 11 Investment property 110 110 Loans at fair value 316 316 Non profit non-unit linked Equity securities 282 278 4 Debt securities 52,008 7,436 35,084 9,488 Accrued interest 468 38 410 20 Derivative assets 4,018 4,018 Investment property 2,722 2,722 Loans at fair value 363 363 With-profits Equity securities 3,260 3,074 4 182 Debt securities 6,162 2,105 4,053 4 Accrued interest 54 17 37 Derivative assets 99 16 83 Investment property 658 658 Loans at fair value 116 116 Unit linked Equity securities 203,045 199,524 2,930 591 Debt securities 168,196 115,470 52,718 8 Accrued interest 972 416 556 Derivative assets 8,434 124 8,310 Investment property 4,847 4,847 Loans at fair value 7,874 7,874 1, 2 Total financial investments and investment property at fair value 471,065 331,415 119,974 19,676 1.
This table excludes loans of 496m, which are held at amortised cost.
This table includes financial investments of 20,062m and investment property of 1,227m relating to assets of operations classified as held for sale, included in Note 27.
148 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management a Level 3 assets measured at fair value Level 3 assets, where internal models are used, comprise property, unquoted equities, untraded debt securities and securities where unquoted prices are provided by a single broker.
Unquoted securities include suspended securities, investments in private equity and property vehicles.
Untraded debt securities include private placements, commercial real estate loans, income strips and lifetime mortgages.
In many situations, inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or liability may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In these situations, the group determines the level in which the fair value falls based upon the lowest level input that is significant to the determination of the fair value.
As a result, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used in the determination of fair values that the group has classified within Level 3.
The group determines the fair values of certain financial assets and liabilities based on quoted market prices, where available.
The group also determines fair value based on estimated future cash flows discounted at the appropriate current market rate.
As appropriate, fair values reflect adjustments for counterparty credit quality, the groups credit standing, liquidity and risk margins on unobservable inputs.
Equity securities Level 3 equity securities amount to 1,757m 2017: 1,451m, of which the majority is made up of holdings of investment property vehicles and private investment funds.
They are valued at the proportion of the groups holding of the Net Asset Value reported by the investment vehicles.
Other equity securities are valued by a number of third party specialists using a range of techniques, including latest round of funding and discounted cash flow models.
Other financial investments Lifetime mortgage LTM loans amount to 3,227m 2017: 2,023m.
They are valued using a discounted cash flow model by projecting bestestimate net asset proceeds and discounting using rates inferred from current LTM pricing.
The inferred illiquidity premiums for the majority of the portfolio range between 100 and 350bps.
This ensures the value of loans at outset is consistent with the purchase price of the loan, and achieves consistency between new and in-force loans.
Inputs to the model include property growth rates and voluntary early redemptions.
The valuation asat31 December 2018 reflects a long-term property growth rate assumption of RPI 0.5%.
Private credit loans including commercial real estate loans amount to 8,001m 2017: 6,265m.
Their valuation is outsourced to Markit who use discounted future cash flows based on a yield curve.
The discount factors take into consideration the z-spread of the LGIM approved comparable bond and the initial spread agreed by both parties.
Unobservable inputs that go into the determination of comparators, include: rating, sector, sub-sector, performance dynamics, financing structure and duration of investment.
Existing private credit investments which were executed back as far as 2011, are subject to a range of interest rate formats, although the majority is fixed rate.
The weighted average duration of the portfolio is 11 years, with a weighted average life of 16.6 years.
Maturities in the portfolio currently extend out to 2064.
The private credit portfolio of assets is not externally rated but has internal ratings assigned by an independent credit team in line with internally developed methodologies.
These credit ratings range from AAA to B.
Income strip assets amount to 1,248m 2017: 1,153m.
Their valuation is outsourced to Knight Frank and CBRE who apply a yield to maturity to discounted future cash flows to derive valuations.
The overall valuation takes into account the property location, tenant details, tenure, rent, rental break terms, lease expiries and underlying residual value of the property.
The valuation as at 31 December 2018 reflects equivalent yield ranges between 2% and 5% and estimated rental values ERV between 10 and 27 per sq ft.
Private placements held by the US business amount to 938m 2017: 569m.
They are valued using a pricing matrix comprised of a public spread matrix, internal ratings assigned to each holding, average life of each holding, and a premium spread matrix.
These are added to the risk-free rate to calculate the discounted cash flows and establish a market value for each investment grade private placement.
The valuation as at 31 December 2018 reflects illiquidity premiums between 10 and 75bps.
Commercial mortgage loans amount to 275m 2017: 342m and are determined by incorporating credit risk for performing loans at the portfolio level and for loans identified to be distressed at the loan level.
The projected cash flows of each loan are discounted along stochastic risk free rate paths and are inclusive of an Option Adjusted Spread OAS, derived from current internal pricing on new loans, along with the best observable inputs.
The valuation as at 31 December 2018 reflects illiquidity premiums between 20 and 40bps.
Other debt securities which are not traded in an active market have been valued using third party or counterparty valuations.
These prices are considered to be unobservable due to infrequent market transactions.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial Statements 11 Financial investments and investment property continued iii Fair value hierarchy continued a Level 3 assets measured at fair value continued Investment property Level 3 investment property amounting to 8,608m 2017: 8,337m is valued with the involvement of external valuers.
All property valuations are carried out in accordance with the latest edition of the Valuation Standards published by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, and are undertaken by appropriately qualified valuers as defined therein.
Whilst transaction evidence underpins the valuation process, the definition of market value, including the commentary, in practice requires the valuer to reflect the realities of the current market.
In this context valuers must use their market knowledge and professional judgement and not rely only upon historic market sentiment based on historic transactional comparables.
The valuation of investment properties also include an income approach that is based on current rental income plus anticipated uplifts, where the uplift and discount rates are derived from rates implied by recent market transactions.
These inputs are deemed unobservable.
The valuation as at 31 December 2018 reflects equivalent yield ranges between 4% and 10% and ERV between 1 and 139 per sq ft. Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that input variables and outputs are assessed independent of the risk taker.
These inputs and outputs are reviewed and approved by a valuation committee and validated independently as appropriate.
The groups policy is to reassess the categorisation of financial assets at the end of each reporting period and to recognise transfers between levels at that point in time.
The realised and unrealised gains and losses have been recognised in investment return in the Consolidated Income Statement.
b Effect on changes in assumptions on Level 3 Fair values of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data.
Where possible, the group assesses the sensitivity of fair values of Level 3 investments to changes in unobservable inputs to reasonable alternative assumptions.
As outlined above, Level 3 investments are valued using internally-modelled valuations or independent third parties.
Where internallymodelled valuations are used, sensitivities are determined by adjusting various inputs of the model and assigning them a weighting.
Where independent third parties are used, sensitivities are determined as outlined below: Unquoted investments in property vehicles and direct holdings in investment property are valued using valuations provided by independent valuers on the basis of open market value as defined in the appraisal and valuation manual of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been determined using alternative yields.
Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Reasonably possible alternative valuations have been determined by stressing key assumptions used in the valuation models.
The group is therefore able to perform a sensitivity analysis for its Level 3 investments, which amount to 24.3bn 2017: 19.7bn.
The effectofchanges in significant unobservable valuation inputs to reasonable alternative assumptions would result in a change in fair value of -1.6bn 2017: -1.2bn, which represents 7% 2017: 6% of the total value of Level 3 investments, including investment property.
Of the total sensitivity impact, - 0.9bn 2017: -1.0bn relates to Level 3 financial assets excluding investment property, whichrepresents 6% 2017: 9% of total Level 3 financial assets and 4% 2017: 5% of total Level 3 investments.
150 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 12 Derivative assets and liabilities The groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The group uses derivatives such as foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The group uses hedge accounting, provided the prescribed criteria in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement are met, to recognise the offsetting effects of changes in the fair value or cash flow of the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
The groups principal uses of hedge accounting are to: i Defer in equity the changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as the hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction, or a firm commitment until the period in which the future transaction affects profit or loss or is no longer expected to occur: and ii Hedge the fair value movements in loans due to interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, together with the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking thehedge transaction, are documented at the inception of the transaction.
The effectiveness of the hedge is documented and monitored on an ongoing basis.
Hedge accounting is only applied for highly effective hedges between 80% and 125% effectiveness with any ineffective portion of the gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the current year.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments which do not qualify forhedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Where the risks and characteristics of derivatives embedded in other contracts are not closely related to those of the host contract and the whole contract is not carried at fair value, the derivative is separated from that host contract and measured at fair value, with fair value movements reflectedwithin investment return, unless the embedded derivative itself meets the definition of an insurance contract.
Cash inflows and outflows are presented on a net basis where the group is required to settle net or has a legally enforceable right of offset and theintention is to settle on a net basis.
Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges The group hedges part of the foreign exchange translation exposure on its net investment in certain overseas subsidiaries, using forward foreign exchangecontracts.
It recognises the portion of the gain or loss which is determined to be an effective hedge through reserves within shareholders equity, along with the gain or loss on translation of the foreign subsidiaries.
Derivative contracts held for trading The group uses certain derivative contracts which are effective hedges of economic exposures in accordance with the groups risk management policy, butfor various reasons are not designated within a formal hedge accounting relationship.
Therefore, these contracts must be designated as held for trading, and gains and losses on these contracts are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial Statements 12 Derivative assets and liabilities continued Fair values Fair values 1 1 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Shareholder derivatives: Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 1 1 Interest rate contracts cash flow hedges 1 Currency swap contracts held for trading 29 119 Inflation swap contracts held for trading 1 Other derivatives held for trading 18 29 43 27 Total shareholder derivatives 18 60 44 147 Non profit nonunit linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts fair value hedges 42 41 Interest rate contracts cash flow hedges Interest rate contracts held for trading 3,630 1,679 3,408 1,350 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 40 80 41 62 Currency swap contracts held for trading 53 623 169 37 Inflation swap contracts held for trading 454 793 256 673 Credit derivatives held for trading 1 35 Other derivatives held for trading 216 27 102 Total non profit nonunit linked derivatives 4,393 3,203 4,018 2,198 Withprofits derivatives: Interest rate contracts held for trading 44 17 70 7 Other derivatives held for trading 7 26 29 5 Total withprofits derivatives 51 43 99 12 Unit linked derivatives: Interest rate contracts held for trading 4,603 1,650 7,400 2,448 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 389 743 737 587 Credit derivatives held for trading 28 56 69 69 Inflation swap contracts held for trading 76 440 74 123 Inflation rate contracts held for trading 1 481 Equity index derivatives held for trading 202 230 113 2,086 Other derivatives held for trading 305 1,366 40 22 Total unit linked derivatives 5,603 4,485 8,434 5,816 Total derivative assets and liabilities 10,065 7,791 12,595 8,173 1.
Derivative liabilities are reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet within Payables and other financial liabilities Note 24.
The group has entered into fixed rate borrowings denominated in USD and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
In order to hedge these risks the group has entered into a cross currency interest rate swap, enabling the exposure to be swapped into a fixed rate in its functional currency.
These had a fair value liability totalling 25m and a notional amount of 1,099m at 31 December 2018.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of these hedges during 2018.
152 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management The contractual undiscounted cash flows in relation to non-unit linked derivatives have the following maturity profile.
Unit linked derivatives have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to liquidity risks.
Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Fair Within Over values 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Cash inflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 18 374 5 5 384 Derivative liabilities 60 920 4 4 928 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 4,393 3,345 5,435 9,109 4,937 1,410 24,236 Derivative liabilities 3,203 4,661 4,607 12,130 7,627 1,876 30,901 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 51 251 44 64 15 374 Derivative liabilities 43 591 50 87 58 41 827 Total 1,156 10,142 10,145 21,399 12,637 3,327 57,650 Cash outflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 18 361 4 5 370 Derivative liabilities 60 975 5 5 985 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 4,393 3,045 5,250 8,584 4,280 1,132 22,291 Derivative liabilities 3,203 5,161 5,806 14,031 8,548 2,129 35,675 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 51 309 27 45 11 392 Derivative liabilities 43 683 54 100 64 41 942 Total 1,156 10,534 11,146 22,770 12,903 3,302 60,655 Net shareholder derivatives cash flows 42 1 43 Net non profit non-unit linked derivatives cash flows 200 1,014 1,376 264 25 2,829 Net with-profits derivatives cash flows 150 13 6 2 133 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Financial Statements 12 Derivative assets and liabilities continued The contractual undiscounted cash flows in relation to non-unit linked derivatives have the following maturity profile.
Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Fair Within Over values 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15-25 years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Cash inflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 44 1,070 9 3 1 1,083 Derivative liabilities 147 199 9 3 1 212 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 4,018 3,592 5,685 12,660 7,896 4,639 34,472 Derivative liabilities 2,198 4,201 2,407 6,276 5,540 3,813 22,237 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 99 852 95 173 97 53 1,270 Derivative liabilities 12 227 37 46 7 2 319 Total 1,804 10,141 8,242 19,161 13,541 8,508 59,593 Cash outflows Shareholder derivatives Derivative assets 44 957 6 3 1 967 Derivative liabilities 147 229 39 4 1 273 Non profit non-unit linked derivatives Derivative assets 4,018 2,909 5,361 11,896 6,978 3,264 30,408 Derivative liabilities 2,198 4,588 3,190 7,544 6,229 4,311 25,862 With-profits derivatives Derivative assets 99 816 62 158 95 42 1,173 Derivative liabilities 12 356 42 54 7 3 462 Total 1,804 9,855 8,700 19,659 13,310 7,621 59,145 Net shareholder derivatives cash flows 83 27 1 55 Net non profit non-unit linked derivatives cash flows 296 459 504 229 877 439 Net with-profits derivatives cash flows 93 28 7 2 10 46 Future cash flows on the floating legs of interest rate and exchange derivatives are calculated using current spot rates, which may differ from the market expectation incorporated in the fair value.
Cash flows arising from implied events covered by credit derivatives are presented in the table above on an expected basis as cash flows within one year.
Cash inflows or outflows are presented on a net basis where the group is required to settle net or has a legally enforceable right of offset and the intention is to settle on a net basis.
154 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 13 Receivables and other assets Total Total 2018 2017 Note m m Reinsurance receivables 24 41 Receivables under finance leases 13 i 162 92 Accrued interest and rent 210 235 Prepayments and accrued income 595 558 Insurance and intermediaries receivables 205 238 1 Inventories 1,687 365 2 Contract assets 154 192 3 Other receivables 2,724 4,685 Total other assets 5,799 6,368 4 Less: assets of operations classified as held for sale 206 285 Other assets 5,593 6,083 Due within 12 months 5,377 6,342 Due after 12 months 422 26 1.
Inventories, previously included within Other receivables, have been disclosed separately and principally represent house building stock including land, options on land, work in progress and other inventory.
Contract assets, previously included within Other receivables, have been disclosed separately in line with the requirements of IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers.
These assets represent the entitys right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that have been transferred to a customer.
Other receivables include amounts receivable from brokers and clients for investing activities, unsettled cash, FX spots which decreased by 2.3bn from 2017, andothersundry balances.
Detailed disclosure related to assets of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27. i Receivables under finance leases The group leases certain investment properties to third parties.
Under these agreements the lessee is considered to retain all the risks and rewardof ownership, therefore the contracts have been classified as finance leases.
At the lease commencement date, the group has recognised areceivable asset in its Consolidated Balance Sheet to reflect the net investment in the lease, equal to the present value of the lease payments.
The group recognises finance income over the lease term to reflect the rate of return on the net investment in the lease.
The group acts as a lessor of certain finance leases, which have a weighted average duration to maturity of 27.1 years as at 31 December 2018.
Thecounterparties, as lessee, are regarded to be the economic owner of the leased assets.
The future minimum lease payments under the arrangement, together with the present value, are disclosed below: Total Unearned Total Unearned future interest Present future interest Present payments income value payments income value 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Not later than 1 year 8 5 3 5 3 2 Between 1 and 5 years 32 20 12 20 11 9 Later than 5 years 215 68 147 106 25 81 Total 255 93 162 131 39 92 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Financial Statements 14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
15 Market risk i Investment performance risk a Equity securities The group controls its exposure to geographic price risks by using internal country risk exposure limits.
These exposure limits are based on macroeconomic data and key qualitative indicators.
The latter take into account economic, social and political environments.
The table below indicates the groups exposure to different equity markets around the world.
Unit linked equity investments are excluded from the table as the risk is retained by the policyholder.
These ratings are based on macroeconomic dataand key qualitative indicators.
The table below indicates the groups exposure to different debt security markets around the world.
Unit linked debt securities are excluded from the table as the risk is retained by thepolicyholder.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Financial Statements 15 Market risk continued i Investment performance risk continued c Additional disclosures on shareholder and non profit non-unit linked debt securities exposure 2018 2018 2017 2017 m % m % Sovereigns, supras and sub-sovereigns 11,615 18 11,450 20 Banks: Tier 1 2 4 Tier 2 and other subordinated 113 260 Senior 5,036 8 4,238 8 Covered 192 221 Financial services: Tier 1 1 Tier 2 and other subordinated 273 251 Senior 664 1 905 2 Insurance: Tier 1 1 Tier 2 and other subordinated 160 182 Senior 814 1 660 1 Consumer services and goods: Cyclical 2,746 4 2,945 5 Non-cyclical 5,272 8 4,409 8 Healthcare 934 2 490 1 Infrastructure: Social 5,152 8 5,378 9 Economic 4,151 7 3,384 6 Technology and telecoms 3,542 7 3,120 6 Industrials 1,383 2 1,283 2 Utilities 9,812 16 8,721 16 Energy 1,064 2 704 1 Commodities 734 1 793 1 Oil and gas 1,610 3 1,742 3 Real estate 2,783 4 2,355 4 Structured finance ABS RMBS CMBS Other 1,742 3 1,459 3 Lifetime mortgage loans 3,227 5 2,023 4 CDOs 75 96 Total 63,096 100 57,075 100 158 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 2018 2017 Analysis of sovereigns, supras and sub-sovereigns m m Market value by region United Kingdom 9,238 8,689 USA 1,038 1,204 Netherlands 37 10 France 7 174 Germany 502 458 GIIPS: Greece 1 Ireland Italy 3 2 Portugal 1 Spain 7 7 Russia 11 10 Rest of Europe 467 504 Brazil 13 18 Rest of World 291 373 Total 11,615 11,450 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 Financial Statements 15 Market risk continued ii Currency risk The group has minimal exposure to currency risk from financial instruments held by business units in currencies other than their functional currencies, as nearly all such holdings are backing either insurance or investment contract liabilities or hedging.
The group operates internationally and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of variouscurrencies.
The largest United States dollar currency exposures relate to the groups US business, Legal & General America.
The majority ofcurrency exposures relating to euros are held by Legal & General Investment Management Europe Limited, a subsidiary of Legal & General Investment Management Limited.
The group does not hedge foreign currency revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
Businesses aim to maintain sufficient assets in local currency to meet local currency liabilities: however, movements may impact the value of the groups consolidated shareholders equity which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored and managed centrally, against pre-determined limits.
These exposures are managed by aligning the deployment of regulatory capital by currency with the groups regulatory capital requirements by currency.
Currency borrowings and derivatives may be used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
As at 31 December 2018, the group held 10% 2017: 10% of its total equity attributable to shareholders in currencies, mainly United States dollar and euro, other than the functional currency of the relevant business unit.
The exchange risks inherent in these exposures may be mitigated through the use of derivatives, mainly forward currency contracts.
Consistent with the groups accounting policies, the profits of overseas business units reported as functional currencies are translated at average exchange rates and the net assets reported as functional currencies at the closing rate for the reporting period.
A 10% increase weakening of foreign currencies or decrease strengthening of foreign currencies in these rates would increase or reduce the profit for the year and net assets as follows: A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in USD:GBP exchange rate USD:GBP exchange rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m 1 Profit for the year 12 26 14 32 1, 2 Net assets attributable to USD exposures 38 19 47 23 A 10% increase in A 10% decrease in EUR:GBP exchange rate EUR:GBP exchange rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m 1 Profit for the year 1 Net assets attributable to EUR exposures 97 30 119 37 1.
Profit for the year impacts relate only to overseas business units where the functional currency is not sterling.
Net asset impacts include both functional currency and non-functional currency exposures.
US net assets have been restated following the change in accounting policy for LGIA term assurance reserves.
Further details on the change in accounting policy isprovided in Note 1.
160 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 16 Credit risk The credit profile of the groups assets exposed to credit risk is shown below.
The credit rating bands are provided by independent rating agencies.
For unrated assets, the group maintains internal ratings which are used to manage exposure to these counterparties.
Unit linked assets have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to the associated credit risk.
Additionally, assets such as equity securities, deferred acquisition costs and tax, have no exposure to the associated credit risk and therefore have also been excluded.
The carrying amount of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements represent the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Of the total debt securities and accrued interest that have been internally rated and unrated, 1m is rated AAA, 170m AA, 77m A, 245m BBB, 46m BB and below and28m as other.
Of the total debt securities and accrued interest that have been internally rated and unrated, 2,303m is rated AAA, 2,554m AA, 4,283m A, 3,896m BBB, 179m BB andbelow and 156m as other.
Of the total debt securities and accrued interest that have been internally rated and unrated, nil is rated AAA, 209m AA, 114m A, 225m BBB, 60m BB and below and 9m as other.
Of the total debt securities and accrued interest that have been internally rated and unrated, 484m is rated AAA, 3,210m AA, 3,029m A, 3,432m BBB, 78m BB and below and55munrated.
With-profits Internally BB and rated AAA AA A BBB below other Total As at 31 December 2017 Notes m m m m m m m Government securities 61 1,669 30 52 28 63 1,903 Other fixed rate securities 419 757 1,340 1,249 66 84 3,915 Variable rate securities 97 154 58 6 4 25 344 11 i 577 2,580 1,428 1,307 98 172 6,162 Total debt securities Accrued interest 11 i 8 16 10 18 2 54 Loans 11 ii 116 116 Derivative assets 12 89 9 1 99 Cash and cash equivalents 14 168 271 9 432 880 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 1 1 Other assets 1 1 209 211 Total 585 2,765 1,915 1,344 100 814 7,523 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 Financial Statements 16 Credit risk continued Impairment The group reviews the carrying value of its financial assets other than those held at FVTPL at each balance sheet date.
If the carrying value of a financial asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced through a charge to the Consolidated Income Statement.
There must be objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events which have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
Impairment is only recognised if the loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of assets held at amortised cost or fair value of assets classified as available for sale.
Assets which are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The table below provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets which have been impaired and the ageing analysis of financialassets which are past due but not impaired.
Unit linked assets have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to risk.
Ageing analysis Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver Carrying impaired months months 1 year 1 year Impaired value 1 As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Shareholder 10,940 286 11 8 23 3 11,271 Non profit non-unit linked 68,966 127 7 4 38 69,142 With-profits 6,460 22 1 6,483 Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 0-3 3-6 6 monthsOver Carrying impaired months months 1 year 1 year Impaired value 1 As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Shareholder 8,910 28 17 16 11 4 8,986 Non profit non-unit linked 64,601 206 10 31 64,848 With-profits 7,485 37 1 7,523 1.
Ageing analysis has been adjusted to include cash at bank, and the 2017 balances have also been analysed accordingly.
164 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities are offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the group has a legally enforceable right to offset and has the intention to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
The group has not entered into any financial transactions resulting in financial assets and liabilities which have been offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The table below shows the financial assets and liabilities that are subject to master netting agreements in the shareholder, non profit non-unit linked and with-profits.
Unit linked assets and liabilities have not been included as shareholders are not directly exposed to risk.
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts under master netting arrangements but not offset Gross and net amounts reported Related Securities in the Consolidated financial Cash collateral Net 1 Balance Sheet instruments collateral pledged amount As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Derivative assets 4,462 2,953 1,214 343 48 Reverse repurchase agreements 902 889 13 Total 5,364 2,953 1,214 1,232 35 Derivative liabilities 3,306 2,953 109 237 7 Repurchase agreements 78 78 Total 3,384 2,953 109 315 7 1.
Related financial instruments represents outstanding amounts with the same counterparty which, under agreements such as the ISDA Master Agreement, could be offset and settled net following certain predetermined events.
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements Amounts under master netting arrangements but not offset Gross and net amounts reported Related Securities in the Consolidated financial Cash collateral Net 1 Balance Sheet instruments collateral pledged amount As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Derivative assets 4,161 2,105 1,272 751 33 Reverse repurchase agreements 795 787 8 Total 4,956 2,105 1,272 1,538 41 Derivative liabilities 2,357 2,105 178 61 13 Repurchase agreements 72 72 Total 2,429 2,105 178 133 13 1.
In the tables above, the amounts of assets or liabilities presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are offset first by financial instruments thathave the right of offset under master netting or similar arrangements with any remaining amount reduced by cash and securities collateral.
Theactual amount of collateral may be greater than the amounts presented in the tables above.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Financial Statements 17 Insurance risk The group is exposed to insurance risk as a consequence of offering the principal products outlined in Note 6.
Insurance risk is the exposure to lossarising from experience being different to that anticipated.
Detailed below are the risks associated with each of the groups segments and theassociated controls operated.
They are applicable to all stated products across the group.
Principal risks Division Controls to mitigate risks Longevity, mortality & morbidity risks For contracts providing death benefits, higher mortality LGI The pricing of protection business is based on assumptions as to future trends in mortality and rates would lead to an increase in claims costs.
The morbidity having regard to past experience.
Underwriting criteria are defined setting out the cost of health related claims depends on both the risks that are unacceptable and the terms for non-standard risks presented by the lives to be incidence of policyholders becoming ill and the duration insured.
Extensive use of reinsurance is made within the UK individual protection business, over which they remain ill. Higher than expected placing a proportion of all risks meeting prescribed criteria.
Mortality and morbidity experience incidence or duration would increase costs over the iscompared to that assumed within the pricing basis with variances subject to actuarial level currently assumed in the calculation of liabilities.
1 For savings contracts providing minimum assured Savings The pricing basis for contracts providing minimum assured death benefits include provision for death benefits, higher mortality rates may result in an future trends in mortality based on past experience.
The level of mortality risk accepted within increase in claims costs.
each contract is not sufficiently material to warrant formal underwriting at an individual policy level.
1 Older contracts containing a basic guaranteed benefit Savings The ultimate cost of basic guarantees provided on older contracts will depend on the take up expressed as an amount of pension payable or a rate of any option and the final form of annuity selected by the policyholder.
The group has guaranteed annuity option, expose the group to interest limited ability to control the take up of these options.
However, the book of business itself is rate and longevity risk.
The cost of guarantees increases diminishing in size.
As at 31 December 2018 the value of guarantees is estimated to be 35m during periods when interest rates are low or when 31 December 2017: 48m.
annuitant mortality improves faster than expected.
For annuity contracts, the group is exposed to the risk LGR Annuity business is priced having regard to trends in improvements in future mortality.
that mortality experience is lower than assumed.
Enhanced annuities, which are priced taking account of impairments to life expectancy, are Lower than expected mortality would require subject to specific underwriting criteria.
Certain annuitant mortality risks, including enhanced payments to be made for longer and increase the cost annuities, are placed with reinsurers.
The group regularly reviews its mortality experience and of benefits provided.
Lifetime mortgage business also industry projections of longevity and adjusts the pricing and valuation assumptions accordingly.
explicitly has some exposure to the life expectancy of In pricing lifetime mortgage business, account is taken of trends in mortality rates in setting the borrowers.
amounts that are advanced to borrowers relative to the value of the property on which the loan is secured.
Persistency risk In the early years of a policy, lapses may result in a LGI and The pricing basis for protection business includes provision for policy lapses.
Following the adoption 1 loss to the group, as the acquisition costs associated Savings of PS06 14 in 2006 the persistency assumption for non-participating protection business allows for with the contract would not have been recovered the expected pattern of persistency, adjusted to incorporate a margin for adverse deviation.
trends in policy lapse rates are monitored with adverse trends being subject to actuarial investigation.
For insured contracts, terms and conditions typically include surrender deductions to mitigate the risk.
In later periods, once the acquisition costs have been recouped, the effect of lapses and surrenders depends upon the relationship between the exit benefit, if any, and the liability for that contract.
Exit benefits are not generally guaranteed and the group has some discretion in determining the amount of the payment.
As a result, the effect on profit in later periods is expected to be broadly neutral.
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and the Part VII transfer isexpected to complete in 2019.
Until the Part VII transfer is completed the insurance risks are effectively transferred to ReAssure Limited by this agreement.
166 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Principal risks Division Controls to mitigate risks Expense risk In pricing long term insurance business, assumptions LGR, LGI In determining pricing assumptions, account is taken of changes in price indices and the aremade as to the future cost of product servicing.
A and costs of employment, with stress testing used to evaluate the effect of significant deviations.
1 significant adverse divergence in actual expenses Savings Actual product servicing costs are monitored relative to the costs assumed with the product experience could reduce product profitability.
pricing basis, with variances investigated.
Concentration catastrophe risk Insurance risk may be concentrated in geographic LGI and Group protection business contracts include an event limit capping the total liability under regions, altering the risk profile of the group.
The most General the policy from a single event.
Excess of loss reinsurance further mitigates loss from the significant exposure of this type arises for group Insurance exposure.
For general insurance business, the risk acceptance policy, terms and premiums protection business, where a single event could result reflect expected claims and cost associated with a location and avoids adverse selection.
Additionally, exposure by location is monitored to ensure there is a geographic spread of risk.
in a large number of related claims.
Catastrophe reinsurance cover also mitigates loss from concentrations of risk.
Epidemic catastrophe risk The spread of an epidemic could cause large LGI The pricing basis for protection business includes an assessment of potential claims as a result aggregate claims across the groups portfolio of ofepidemic risks.
Quota share and excess of loss reinsurance contracts are used by individual protection businesses.
and group protection, respectively, to further mitigate the risk.
Depending on the nature of an epidemic, mortality experience may lead to a reduction in the cost of claims for annuity business.
Weather events risk Significant weather events such as windstorms and General The financial impacts of significant weather events are managed using excess of loss coastal and river floods can lead to a higher instance Insurance catastrophe treaties under which a portion of the costs of claims may be recovered from of claims than anticipated.
external insurers, although the group retains an element of the risk internally.
The reinsurance is designed to provide financial protection against a modelled windstorm and coastal flood event with a return probability of 1 in 200 years.
Other risks Subsidence risk The incidence of subsidence can have a significant General Underwriting criteria for general insurance business includes assessment of subsidence risk, impact on the level of claims on household policies.
Insurance with an appropriate premium being charged for the risk accepted in line with industry practice.
Until thePart VII transfer is completed the insurance risks are effectively transferred to ReAssure Limited by this agreement.
Accumulation of risks There is limited potential for single incidents to give rise to a large number of claims across the different contract types written by the group.
In particular, there is little significant overlap between the long term and short term insurance business written by the group.
However, there are potentially material correlations of insurance risk with other types of risk exposure.
The groups capital model seeks to measure risk correlations particularly those that would tend to be more acute as the underlying risk scenarios become more extreme.
An example of the accumulation of riskis the correlation between reinsurer credit risk with mortality and morbidity exposures.
Operational risk Operational risk is defined as loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or external events.
Potential for exposure tooperational risk extends to all the groups businesses.
The group has constructed a framework of internal controls to minimise material loss from operational risk events recognising that no system of internal control can completely eliminate the risk of error, financial loss, fraudulent action or reputational damage.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 Financial Statements 18 Long term insurance valuation assumptions The groups insurance assumptions, described below, relate primarily to the UK insurance business.
Assumptions have also been included for material lines of the US insurance business, Legal & General America LGA.
Other non-UK businesses do not constitute a material component ofthe groups operations and consideration of geographically determined assumptions is therefore not included.
Sale of Mature Savings In December 2017 the group announced the sale of its Mature Savings business to Swiss Re.
The sale is subject to regulatory approval and thePartVII transfer is expected to complete in 2019.
The group has entered into a Risk Transfer Agreement with ReAssure Limited a subsidiary ofSwiss Re until a formal legal transfer of the business to Swiss Re is complete.
Shareholder economic exposure to the with-profits fund is effectively transferred to ReAssure Limited by this agreement.
As a result the assets and liabilities including long term liabilities of the Mature Savings business have been reclassified as held for sale on the balance sheet.
i Non-participating business For its non-participating business the group seeks to make prudent assumptions about its future experience based on current market conditions and recent experience.
The approach used to set non-participating assumptions is generally similar to that previously used to determine the assumptions used for Solvency I.
There are no material changes in this approach as a result of the Solvency II regulatory regime, which came into effect on 1 January 2016, except for the use of term and whole of life mortality improver assumptions.
Assumptions incorporate prudent margins in excess of our best estimate assumptions to reduce the possibility of actual experience being less favourable than assumed.
The assumptions forwith-profits unit-linked products continue to be on a best estimate basis, materially similar to that previously used under Solvency I Peak 2.
Valuation rates of interest and discount rates The valuation interest rate for each contract type is based on the yield on the assets backing the contract adjusted for the risk that asset proceeds are not received by the group.
For some business, this yield is the gross redemption yield or appropriate forward yield on fixed interest securities and the running yield on variable interest securities.
For other business it is the Internal Rate of Return on the portfolio of backing assets.
In 2018, the group continued to hold an additional reserve to protect against the risk on assets backing its UK annuity business of an uplift in defaults in the current economic environment and maintained the level of the long term default allowance at 42bps per annum 2017: 42bps for unapproved securities and property backing non-profit business.
For approved securities backing the non-profit annuity business, the allowance is 9bps per annum 2017: 9bps.
For unapproved securities backing non-profit annuity business, the credit default allowances equate to 51bps per annum 2017: 54bps when expressed over the duration of the assets held, leading to an overall total default provision of 2.9bn 2017: 2.7bn.
The group believes this total default allowance is prudent to cover all reasonably foreseeable circumstances.
Similar allowances are made for the risk of default of fixed income securities backing other portfolios of liabilities.
For equity investments, the yield is based on the current dividend yield, adjusted for prudence.
For property holdings, yields are based on the rental income payable.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity assumptions for the UK business are set with reference to standard tables drawn up by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau CMIB, a subsidiary of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, and or UK death registrations.
US assumptions are set with reference to standard tables drawn up by the American Academy of Actuaries.
Assumptions include an appropriate allowance for prudence.
Tables are based on industry-wide mortality and morbidity experience for insured lives.
The group conducts statistical investigations of its mortality and morbidity experience, the majority of which are carried out at least annually.
Investigations determine the extent to which the groups experience differs from that underpinning the standard tables, and suggest appropriate adjustments which need to be made to the valuation assumptions.
Persistency The group monitors its persistency experience and carries out detailed investigations annually.
Persistency experience can be volatile and past experience may not be an appropriate future indicator.
The group tries to balance past experience and potential future conditions by making prudent assumptions about expected long term average persistency levels.
For non-participating contracts where explicit persistency assumptions are not made, prudence is also incorporated into the liabilities by ensuring that they are sufficient to cover the more onerous of the two scenarios where the policies either remain in-force until maturity or where they discontinue at the valuation date.
Expenses The group monitors its expense experience and carries out detailed investigations regularly to determine the expenses incurred in writing and administering the different products and classes of business.
Adjustments may be made for known future changes in the administration processes, in line with the groups business plan.
An allowance for expense inflation in the future is also made, taking account of both salary and price information.
The expense assumptions also include an appropriate allowance for prudence.
Premiums For those contracts where the policyholder does not have the right to vary the amount of the premium paid, full credit is taken for the premiums contractually due at the valuation date.
For contracts where the policyholder has the option to vary the rate of premium, the provision is taken as being the higher of the amount calculated as if the policyholder continues to make premium payments or, alternatively, ceases to pay premiums altogether.
168 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management ii Participating business For its participating business, the group seeks to establish its liabilities at their realistic value in line with the requirements set out in UK GenerallyAccepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
Non-economic assumptions Non-economic assumptions are set to represent the groups best estimates of future experience.
Economic assumptions Realistic reporting requires a market consistent economic model.
The model is calibrated using market data from a variety of market sources.
This enables assumptions to be determined for the term structure of risk free interest rates, and for property and equity volatility.
Risk free interest rates are determined with reference to the swap yield curve on the valuation date less a credit risk adjustment CRA of 10bps for 2018 2017: swap yield curve on the valuation date less a CRA of 10bps.
Property volatility is set with reference to historic variations in property prices.
Equity volatility is set so that the model reproduces observed market prices of traded equity derivatives.
Correlations between asset classes are based on historic data.
Each investment scenario contains a consistent set of assumptions for investment returns and inflation.
Future bonuses Future reversionary and terminal bonuses are consistent with the bonus policies set out in the Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds LGAS Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
Guaranteed annuity options The guarantees are valued on a market consistent basis.
The valuation methodology allows for the correlation between interest rates and the proportion of the policyholders who take up the option.
Guaranteed cash options The liability is determined assuming that policyholders choose the most valuable alternative between the annuity and cash available at retirement.
Value of in-force non-participating contracts The group makes a deduction from the liabilities for the expected value of future profits arising on non-participating contracts written in the with-profits part of the LGAS Long Term Fund.
The economic assumptions used to calculate the value of these profits are consistent with those used to calculate liabilities for with-profits business.
Non-economic assumptions represent best estimates of expected future experience on this business.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Financial Statements 18 Long term insurance valuation assumptions continued iii Long term valuation assumptions The table below sets out the current valuation assumptions used to establish the long term UK liabilities.
2018 2017 Rate of interest discount rates Non-participating business 1 Life assurances 1.47% p. a. and 3.42% p. a.
Annuities in deferment RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for inflation 0.84 % p. a.
2.22% p. a. Vested annuities RPI-linked: net rate after allowance for inflation 0.84 % p. a.
Future bonuses Determined stochastically in line Determined stochastically in line with with bonus policy as stated in bonus policy as stated in PPFM PPFM UK equity volatility 10 year option term 18.05% 20.83% Property volatility 15.00% 15.00% Mortality tables Non-participating business 4 Non-linked individual term assurances : Smokers 117% TMS08 TFS08 Sel 5 92% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 Non-smokers 107% TMN08 TFN08 Sel 5 80% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 4,5 Non-linked individual term assurances with terminal illness Smokers 70% - 105% TMS08 TFS08 Sel 5 65% - 85% TMS00 TFS00 Sel 5 Non-smokers 88% - 106% TMN08 TFN08 Sel 5 57% - 81% TMN00 TFN00 Sel 5 6 Non-linked individual term assurances with critical illness Sold until 31 12 2012 Smokers 120% - 143% ACSL04M F 121% - 145% ACSL04M F Non-smokers 126% - 151% ACNL04M F 120% - 144% ACNL04M F 6 Non-linked individual term assurances with critical illness Sold from 01 01 2013 Smokers 125% - 147% ACSL04M F 124% - 145% ACSL04M F Sel 2 Non-smokers 131% - 177% ACNL04M F Sel 2 123% - 175% ACNL04M F 7 Whole of Life Protection Plan Smokers Bespoke tables based on TMS08 Bespoke tables based on TMS00 TFS08, AM92 AF92 and UK death TFS00, AM92 AF92 and UK death registrations registrations Non-smokers Bespoke tables based on TMN08 Bespoke tables based on TMN00 TFN08, AM92 AF92 and UK death TFN00, AM92 AF92 and UK death registrations registrations 7 Whole of Life over 50 Bespoke tables based on ELT15, Bespoke tables based on ELT15, Whole Whole of Life Protection Plan of Life Protection Plan assumptions and assumptions and UK death UK death registrations registrations 8 Annuities in deferment 75.6% - 84.2% PNMA00 PNFA00 75.6% - 84.0% PNMA00 PNFA00 9 Vested annuities Pension risk transfer 76.4% - 84.2% PCMA00 PCFA00 76.4% - 84.0% PCMA00 PCFA00 Other annuities 59.7% - 108.8% PCMA00 PCFA00 60.9% - 115.5% PCMA00 PCFA00 US annuities Bespoke tables based on RP-2014 Bespoke tables based on RP-2014 Healthy Annuitant Total table Healthy Annuitant Total table 10 US term assurances Bespoke tables based on SOA 2014 Bespoke tables based on SOA 2014 VBT VBT 170 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 1.
A single rate is used if liabilities are negative 2018: 3.42% for Life and 3.37% for Pensions: 2017: 3.30% for both Life and Pensions or positive 2018: 1.50% gross for Pension assurance and 1.85% gross or 1.47% net for Life assurance : 2017: 1.25% gross for Pension assurance and 1.73% gross or 1.38% net for Life assurance throughout.
The table above shows the assumption of the dominant product for the positive liabilities and the single rate for the negative liabilities.
An appropriate valuation interest rate is applied at all times during the projection, i. e. when liabilities switch from being negative to positive the valuation interest rate will also switch from being high to low.
The crossover point at which the margin changes direction is assessed for broad product groups but applied at a policy by policy level.
The valuation interest rate is the internal rate of return on the portfolio of backing assets and includes prudent adjustments for investment expense, default and re investment risk.
The valuation interest rate is derived by combining the risk free yield curve based on the USD curve specified by EIOPA for Solvency II plus a risk adjusted spread addition based on the portfolio of assets LGA invest in.
It includes prudent adjustments for investment expense, default and re investment risk.
Improvement assumptions applied for 2018 of 1% for males and females 2017: no improvement assumption applied.
The percentage of the table varies with the duration that the policy has been in force for the first five years.
The percentage of the table varies with the duration that the policy has been in force for the first two years.
For term assurance with critical illness, morbidity rates are assumed to deteriorate at a rate of 0.50% p. a. for males and 0.75% p. a. for females 2017: 0.50% p. a. for males and 0.75% p. a. for females.
There is an additive loading of 1.00% 2017: 1.00% for guaranteed term contracts post policy duration 5.
Mortality rates are assumed to reduce based on CMI2014 model with a long term annual improvement rate of 1.5% for males and 1.0% for females 2017:Mortality rates are assumed to reduce whilst business is ceded to reinsurer where longevity risk exists after which any reduction is maintained but no further reduction is applied based on CMI2014 model with a long term annual improvement rate of 1.5% for males and 1.0% for females.
Table created by blending PCXA00 with PNXA00 tables.
The base table to be used for bulk purchase annuity policies in deferment is PNMA00 up to and including age 55 and PCMA00 for age 65 and above for males.
The identical method is applied to females using PNFA00 and PCFA00.
Mortality rates are assumed to reduce according to an adjusted version of CMIBs mortality improvement model: CMI 2016 2017: CMI 2015 with the following parameters: Males: A best estimate Long Term Rate of 1.50% p. a. up to age 85 tapering to 0% at 110 plus margins equivalent to a further 0.5% addition to the Long Term Rate, together with a further uplift of 0.048% to all future improvement rates.
2017: A best estimate Long Term Rate of 1.50% p. a. up to age 85 tapering to 0% at 120 plus margins equivalent to a further 0.5% addition to the Long Term Rate together with a further uplift of 0.064% to all future improvement rates.
Females: A best estimate Long Term Rate of 1.00% p. a. up to age 85 tapering to 0% at 110 plus margins equivalent to a further 0.5% addition to the Long Term Rate, together with a further uplift of 0.048% to all future improvement rates.
2017: A best estimate Long Term Rate of 1.00% p. a. up to age 85 tapering to 0% at 120 plus margins equivalent to a further 0.5% addition to the Long Term Rate together with a further uplift of 0.064% to all future improvement rates.
Smoothing is applied to derive initial rates using a smoothing parameter Sk value of 7.5 applied to population data from 1981 to 2016.
2017: Earlier CMI models did not require an explicit smoothing parameter to be set, population dataset 1971 - 2015.
Different business classes have different effective dates for applying improvers.
For individual annuities distributed through retail channels, a further allowance is made for the effect of initial selection.
The basis above is applicable up to age 90.
After age 90 the basis is blended towards a bespoke table from age 105 onwards 2017: After age 90 the basis is blended towards a bespoke table from age 105 onwards.
For LGA business, the mortality rates are based on the SOA 2014 Valuation Basic Table VBT.
Adjustments are made for sex, select period, smoker status, policy size, policy duration and year, issue year and age.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Financial Statements 18 Long term insurance valuation assumptions continued iii Long term valuation assumptions continued Persistency assumptions Lapse rates assumptions are used in the valuation of certain classes of long term business.
Where this is the case, the valuation persistency basis is set by applying a prudential margin over the best estimate assumptions.
The tables below show the major products where lapse rates have been used.
For UK term assurance business, the margin acts to increase the best estimate lapse rate in the early part of a policys lifetime when it is treated as an asset but to reduce the best estimate lapse rate later in the policys lifetime when it is treated as a liability.
Any liability to reinsurers on discontinuance within the first four years from inception is allowed for explicitly in the cash flows, using the valuation lapse basis, together with a prudent allowance for clawback of commission from agents upon lapse.
For unitised business, the margin acts to either increase or decrease the best estimate lapse rates, depending upon which approach results in the higher liability.
The direction of the margin is assessed for unit life business and unit pensions business separately.
A summary of the lapse basis for major classes of non-profit business is shown below.
The lapse rates for unit linked business represent the decrement from in-force to surrender.
For US term assurance, a single margin is used across guaranteed period durations for a given policy.
All US term assurance contracts are assumed tolapse at the end of the guaranteed period.
Policies past the guaranteed period as of the valuation date are assumed to lapse on the next premiumdue date.
2018 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 Product % % % % Level term 9.1 5.1 3.6 3.2 Decreasing term 10.4 9.4 8.5 8.4 Accelerated critical illness cover 12.9 8.9 6.0 5.2 Pensions term 5.9 4.6 4.2 Whole of Life conventional non profit 2.0 0.8 0.7 0.7 Bond unit linked non profit 2.7 7.0 3.7 3.4 US term 10 year guarantee period 4.3 4.7 n a n a US term 15 year guarantee period 2.5 2.2 3.2 n a US term 20 year guarantee period 2.2 1.7 1.6 2.5 US term 30 year guarantee period 2.1 1.7 1.4 1.1 2017 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 Product % % % % Level term 9.7 4.7 3.1 3.0 Decreasing term 9.5 9.2 7.8 7.7 Accelerated critical illness cover 13.0 9.0 5.2 4.9 Pensions term 5.9 4.5 4.4 Whole of Life conventional non profit 3.5 0.8 0.7 0.7 Bond unit linked non profit 2.2 6.9 3.9 3.4 US term 10 year guarantee period 4.6 5.2 n a n a US term 15 year guarantee period 2.6 2.6 3.0 n a US term 20 year guarantee period 2.4 2.0 1.5 2.0 US term 30 year guarantee period 2.3 1.9 1.6 1.6 172 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management For with-profits business, the realistic valuation was the biting basis under the previous Solvency I regime and therefore detail of the long term best estimate lapse rates is given below for unitised with-profits UWP and unit linked non-participating products.
2018 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 Product % % % % Savings endowment unitised with-profits 1.0 4.0 Target cash endowment unitised with-profits 4.6 4.3 Savings endowment unit linked non-participating 1.0 4.0 Target cash endowment unit linked non-participating 4.6 4.3 Bond unitised with-profits 1.6 5.6 5.1 3.7 Bond unit linked non-participating 1.1 3.0 5.5 Individual pension regular premium unitised with-profits 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.4 Individual pension regular premium unit linked non-participating 5.0 5.4 5.0 4.9 Group pension regular premium unitised with-profits 13.2 13.7 13.9 13.9 Group pension regular premium unit linked non-participating 3.8 5.4 6.2 6.2 Individual pension single premium unitised with-profits 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.3 Individual pension single premium unit linked non-participating 4.4 4.8 4.4 4.2 Group pension single premium unitised with-profits 6.1 5.7 5.6 5.6 Group pension single premium unit linked non-participating 16.2 12.0 11.4 10.6 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unitised with-profits 13.7 15.0 15.0 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unit linked non-participating 13.7 15.0 15.0 2017 Average lapse rate for the policy years 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 Product % % % % Savings endowment unitised with-profits 1.0 4.0 Target cash endowment unitised with-profits 4.6 4.3 Savings endowment unit linked non-participating 1.0 4.0 Target cash endowment unit linked non-participating 4.6 4.3 Bond unitised with-profits 1.6 5.6 5.1 3.7 Bond unit linked non-participating 1.1 3.0 5.5 Individual pension regular premium unitised with-profits 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.4 Individual pension regular premium unit linked non-participating 5.0 5.5 5.0 4.9 Group pension regular premium unitised with-profits 13.6 14.0 14.2 14.2 Group pension regular premium unit linked non-participating 3.9 5.5 6.3 6.3 Individual pension single premium unitised with-profits 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.3 Individual pension single premium unit linked non-participating 4.4 4.8 4.4 4.2 Group pension single premium unitised with-profits 6.1 5.8 5.7 5.7 Group pension single premium unit linked non-participating 16.0 11.9 11.3 10.5 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unitised with-profits 2.7 19.5 13.4 13.4 Trustee Investment Plan single premium unit linked non-participating 2.7 19.5 13.4 13.4 1.
The 2017 lapse rates have been restated as they did not accurately reflect the rates used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2017.
There is no impact on the groups primary statements.
Endowment reserve The endowment reserve has been set taking reasonable account of assessment of the expected future population of complaints, the expected uphold rate for these complaints, the potential impact of any Financial Ombudsmen Service decisions on referred complaints and the average compensation per complaint.
Overseas business In calculating the long term business provisions for international long term business operation, local actuarial tables and interest rates are used.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Financial Statements 19 IFRS sensitivity analysis Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on pre-tax group group equity pre-tax group group equity profit net of net of profit net of net of re-insurance re-insurance re-insurance re-insurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Economic sensitivity Long-term insurance 1 100bps increase in interest rates 384 209 195 59 1 50bps decrease in interest rates 220 122 126 45 50bps increase in future inflation expectations 65 53 6 5 Credit spreads widen by 100bps with no change in expected defaults 138 213 108 172 25% rise in equity markets 514 456 458 399 25% fall in equity markets 459 399 443 399 15% rise in property values 738 606 408 346 15% fall in property values 761 623 441 373 10bps increase in credit default assumptions 551 446 477 383 10bps decrease in credit default assumptions 558 451 469 377 Non-economic sensitivity Long-term insurance 1% increase in annuitant mortality 157 192 186 197 1% decrease in annuitant mortality 147 183 178 191 1 5% increase in assurance mortality 375 298 49 37 General insurance 2 Single storm event with 1 in 200 year probability 235 190 221 179 1.
Sensitivities have been calculated in accordance with the new reserving basis for term assurance business in LGIA adopted from 1 January 2018, which now uses current information where applicable.
Further details on this change in accounting policy are provided in Note 1.
Sensitivity shows the ultimate cost to the group taking in to account intra group reassurance arrangements.
Sensitivities in 2017 showed the impact onLegal & General Insurance Limited alone and have been restated to be on a consistent basis.
174 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management The table on page 174 shows the impacts on group pre-tax profit and equity, net of reinsurance, under each sensitivity scenario.
The group has aligned sensitivity analysis disclosure requirements across various reported metrics, primarily for interest rate, equity, property value, and annuitant mortality.
The current disclosure also reflects managements view of key risks in current economic conditions.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, US term assurance liabilities were calculated on a US GAAP basis which takes a more passive approach to assumption setting.
The economic and demographic assumptions set at inception were assumed to be unchanged under the sensitivities specified, making the liabilities insensitive to changes in assumptions.
Following a change in accounting policy for these liabilities during 2018 see Note 1 for details to bring them in line with how similar products are accounted for in other parts of the business, a gross premium valuation methodology has been used, and assumptions are now set on the basis of current information.
This change in accounting policy has a significant impact on the interest rate and assurance mortality assumption stresses for the US term assurance liabilities.
The interest rate sensitivity assumes a 100bps increase, and 50bps decrease, in the gross redemption yield on fixed interest securities together with a 100bps and 50bps change in the real yields on variable securities for respective sensitivity analyses.
The interest rate sensitivities reflect theimpact of the regulatory restrictions on the reinvestment rate used to value the liabilities of the long term business.
No yield floors have been applied in the estimation of the stresses, despite the current low interest rate environment.
The inflation stress adopted is a 50bps p. a. increase in inflation resulting in a 50bps p. a. reduction in real yield and no change to the nominal yield.
Inaddition the expense inflation rate is increased by 50bps p. a.
In the sensitivity for credit spreads, corporate bond yields have increased by 100bps, gilt and approved security yields are unchanged, and there has been no adjustment to the default assumptions.
The equity stress is a - 25% in equity values.
The property stress adopted is a -15% in property market values.
Rental income is assumed to beunchanged: however the vacant possession value is stressed down by 15% in line with the market value stress.
Where property is being used toback liabilities, the valuation interest rate used to place a value on the liabilities moves with the implied change in property yields.
The credit default stress assumes a -10bps stress to the current credit default assumptions for unapproved corporate bonds which will have an impact on the valuation interest rates used to discount liabilities.
The credit default assumption is set based on the credit rating of the individual bonds in the asset portfolio and their outstanding term using Moodys global credit default rates.
The annuitant mortality stress is a -1% in the mortality rates for immediate and deferred annuitants with no change to the mortality improvementrates.
The assurance mortality stress represents an increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts by 5%.
The group has external weather catastrophe reinsurance in place such that for any single weather event with claims up to 600m 2017: 520m theultimate cost of claims is limited to 200m.
Intra group reinsurance means for losses in excess of 50m 2017: 30m but less than 600m 2017: 520m the cost of claims in Legal & General Insurance Limited would be 25m.
Legaland General Assurance Society Limited is exposed to 93% of claims between 50m and 120m 2017: 35m to 105m and Legal & GeneralReinsurance Limited is exposed to 85% of claims between 120m and 220m 2017: 71% of claims between 105m and 225m.
An event costing 600m is approximately equivalent to but slightly lower than the end-2018 modelled 1 in 200 year loss.
In addition to the cost of claims thegroup would also incur additional claims handling costs and the cost of reinstatement premiums.
The above sensitivity analyses do not reflect management actions which could be taken to reduce the impacts.
The group seeks to actively manage its asset and liability position.
A change in market conditions may lead to changes in the asset allocation or charging structure which may have a more, or less, significant impact on the value of the liabilities.
The analyses also ignore any second order effects of the assumption change, including the potential impact on the group asset-liability position and any second order tax effects.
In calculating the alternative values, all other assumptions are left unchanged, though in practice, items may be correlated.
The sensitivity of the profit and equity to changes in assumptions maynot be linear.
These results should not be extrapolated to changes of a much larger order, which could be significantly more or less than theamounts shown on page 174.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 Financial Statements 20 Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contracts are contracts which transfer significant insurance risk to the insurer at the inception of the contract.
This is the case if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, other than a scenario which lacks commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
A number of insurance and investment contracts contain discretionary participating features DPF which entitle the policyholders to receive guaranteed benefits as well as additional benefits: the amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the group: and which are contractually based on: the performance of a specified pool of contracts or a specified type of contract: realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer: or the profit or loss of the company, fund or other entity which issues the contract.
Contracts with DPF are referred to as participating contracts.
With-profits contracts in the UK are classified as participating.
Long term insurance Death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Surrenders for non-linked policies are accounted for when payment is made.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other long term claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
Claims payable include the direct costs of settlement.
The change in the insurance liability reflects the reduction in liabilities due to the payment of claims in the year, offset by liabilities arising from new business.
The movement also reflects assumption changes relating to variables such as claims expectations, expenses and the unwind of the previous periods expectations.
Under current IFRS requirements, insurance contract liabilities are measured using local Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4, Insurance contracts.
UK For non-participating insurance contracts, the liabilities are calculated on the basis of current information using the gross premium valuation method.
This brings into account the full premiums receivable under contracts written, having prudent regard to expected lapses and surrenders, estimated renewal and maintenance costs, and contractually guaranteed benefits.
For unit linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based on the fund value together with an allowance for any excess of future expenses over charges where appropriate.
For participating contracts, the liabilities to policyholders are determined on a realistic basis in accordance with guidance previously set out in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 27, Life assurance.
Although FRS 27 is no longer an operational standard, the group has grandfathered the provisions into its IFRS reserving methodology.
This includes an assessment of the cost of any future options and guarantees granted to policyholders valued on a market consistent basis.
The calculation also takes account of bonus decisions which are consistent with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
The shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses is excluded from the assessment of the realistic liability.
In determining the realistic value of liabilities for participating contracts, the value of future profits on non-participating business written in the with-profits part of the fund is accounted for as part of the calculation.
The present value of future profits PVFP for this business is separately determined and its value is deducted from the sum of the liabilities for participating contracts and the unallocated divisible surplus.
Unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are received and non-unitised liabilities are recognised when premiums are due.
Following the groups announcement in December 2017 to sell Mature Savings business to Swiss Re the participating insurance contract liabilities, which is part of Mature Savings business, has been classified as held for sale.
Overseas All annuity and term assurance business written by overseas subsidiaries is recognised and measured in line with those written in the UK.
All other long term insurance contract liabilities for business transacted by overseas subsidiaries are determined on the basis of recognised actuarial methods which reflect local supervisory principles or, in the case of the US, on the basis of US GAAP.
General insurance Liabilities, together with related reinsurance recoveries, are established on the basis of current information.
Such liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing or the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
Claims and related reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in respect of all incidents up to the year end.
Provision is made on the basis of available information for the estimated ultimate cost, including claims settlement expenses, claims reported but not yet settled and claims incurred but not yet reported.
An unexpired risk provision is made for any overall excess of expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned premiums and after taking account of investment return.
Liability adequacy tests The group performs liability adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, the group discounts all contractual cash flows and compares this amount with the carrying value of the liability.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, initially reducing deferred acquisition costs and then by establishing a provision for losses.
176 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Reinsurance The groups insurance subsidiaries cede insurance premiums and risk in the normal course of business in order to limit the potential for losses andto provide financing.
Outwards reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related premiums for the direct orinwards reinsurance business being reinsured.
Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurers for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future life policy benefits.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy.
Reinsurance is recorded as an asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet unless a right of offset exists, in which case the associated liabilities are reduced commensurately.
Contracts with reinsurers are assessed to determine whether they contain significant insurance risk.
Contracts that do not give rise to significant transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer are considered to be financial reinsurance and are accounted for and disclosed in a manner consistent withfinancial instruments.
i Analysis of non-participating insurance contract liabilities 1 Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Non-participating insurance contracts 65,301 4,723 62,145 5,316 General insurance contracts 346 10 291 8 Total non-participating insurance contract liabilities 65,647 4,733 62,436 5,324 2 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 940 48 1,128 48 Insurance contract liabilities 64,707 4,685 61,308 5,276 1.
Following the change in accounting policy for LGIA term life reserves the gross non-participating insurance contract liabilities and the related reinsurance have beenrestated.
The net impact of the restatement is a reduction of 1,010m in gross non-participating insurance contract liabilities and 158m in reinsurance.
Further details on the change in accounting policy is provided in Note 1.
Detailed disclosure relating to liabilities of operations held for sale is included in Note 27. ii Expected non-participating insurance contract liability cash flows Date of undiscounted cash flows 0-5 5-15 15-25 Over 25 years years years years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Non-participating insurance contracts 13,626 25,819 19,535 19,673 78,653 1 General insurance contracts 130 2 132 Non-participating insurance contract liabilities 13,756 25,821 19,535 19,673 78,785 Date of undiscounted cash flows 0-5 5-15 15-25 Over 25 years years years years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Non-participating insurance contracts 10,943 22,459 16,967 17,955 68,324 1 General insurance contracts 95 1 96 Non-participating insurance contract liabilities 11,038 22,460 16,967 17,955 68,420 1.
Excludes unearned premium reserve of 204m 2017: 187m for which there are no cash flows.
Non-participating insurance contract undiscounted cash flows are based on the expected date of settlement.
Amounts under unit linked contracts are generally repayable on demand and the group is responsible for ensuring there is sufficient liquidity within the asset portfolio to enable liabilities to unit linked policyholders to be met as they fall due.
However, the terms of funds investing in less liquid assets permit the deferral of redemptions for predefined periods in circumstances where there are not sufficient liquid assets within the fund to meet the level of requested redemptions.
Accordingly, unit linked liabilities have been excluded from the table.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 Financial Statements 20 Insurance contract liabilities continued iii Movement in non-participating insurance contract liabilities 1 1 Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m As at 1 January 62,145 5,316 60,511 5,297 New liabilities in the year 9,622 743 4,809 932 Liabilities discharged in the year 3,399 263 3,006 208 Unwinding of discount rates 1,385 136 1,458 154 Effect of change in non-economic assumptions 1,912 1,181 663 193 Effect of change in economic assumptions 2,729 117 789 123 1 Change in accounting policy 1,010 158 Foreign exchange adjustments 222 21 306 35 Modelling and methodology changes 35 72 456 568 Other 68 4 19 28 Total as at 31 December 65,301 4,723 62,145 5,316 2 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 940 48 1,128 48 As at 31 December 64,361 4,675 61,017 5,268 3 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 1,557 1,777 3 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 59,021 55,052 1.
Change in accounting policy represents the cumulative impact of the retrospective change in accounting policy related to LGIA term assurance reserves, described in Note 1.
Detailed disclosure related to the liabilities of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
The expected maturity analysis between within and after 12 months is based on the Total non-participating insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance as at 31 December.
iv Analysis of general insurance contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Outstanding claims 94 1 67 1 Claims incurred but not reported 39 30 Unearned premiums 213 9 194 7 General insurance contract liabilities 346 10 291 8 v Movement in general insurance claim liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m As at 1 January 97 1 96 2 Claims arising 238 1 172 1 Claims paid 205 2 176 3 Adjustments to prior year liabilities 3 1 5 1 As at 31 December 133 1 97 1 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 101 80 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 31 16 vi Unearned premiums Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m As at 1 January 194 7 172 7 Earned in the year 390 15 346 14 Gross written premiums in respect of future periods 409 17 368 14 As at 31 December 213 9 194 7 Expected to be earned within 12 months net of reinsurance 204 187 Expected to be earned after 12 months net of reinsurance 178 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management vii Claims development general insurance Changes may occur in the amount of the groups obligations at the end of a contract period.
The top section of each table below illustrates how the estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year developed over time.
The bottom section of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Gross of reinsurance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Accident year m m m m m Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 169 172 152 169 235 One year later 163 158 145 164 Two years later 161 158 146 Three years later 163 158 Four years later 164 Estimate of cumulative claims 164 158 146 164 235 Cumulative payments 162 156 142 151 125 Outstanding claims provision 2 2 4 13 110 Total outstanding claims provision 131 Prior year outstanding claims 1 Claims handling provision 1 Total claims liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 133 No net of reinsurance claim development table has been presented as it would not be materially different from the gross claims development table above.
21 Investment contract liabilities Under current IFRS requirements, participating investment contract liabilities are measured using local GAAP, as permitted by IFRS 4.
In the UK, participating investment contract liabilities are determined in accordance with guidance previously set out in FRS 27, including a value for guarantees, in the same way as participating insurance contracts.
The groups non-participating investment contracts are all unit linked contracts.
These liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset values of the groups unitised investment funds at the balance sheet date.
Claims are not included in the income statement but are deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract liabilities consists of claims incurred in the year less the corresponding elimination of the policyholder liability originally recognised in the balance sheet and the investment return credited to policyholders.
Following the groups announcement in December 2017 to sell Mature Savings business to Swiss Re the participating investment contract liabilities, which are a part of Mature Savings business, have been classified as held for sale.
i Analysis of non-participating investment contract liabilities Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Total non-participating investment contracts 311,494 183 336,628 317 1 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 18,414 131 20,977 48 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 293,080 52 315,651 269 2 Expected to be settled within 12 months net of reinsurance 53,414 46,809 2 Expected to be settled after 12 months net of reinsurance 257,897 289,502 1.
Detailed disclosure relating to the liabilities of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
The expected maturity analysis between within and after 12 months is based on the Total non-participating investment contract liabilities.
Accordingly cash flows of unit linked liabilities have not been reported.
The presented fair values of the non-participating investment contract liabilities reflect quoted prices in active markets and they have been classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 Financial Statements 21 Investment contract liabilities continued ii Movement in investment contract liabilities 3 3 Gross Reinsurance Gross Reinsurance 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m As at 1 January 341,796 317 326,448 286 Reserves in respect of new business 45,476 3 41,104 6 Amounts paid on surrenders and maturities during the year 58,626 126 57,542 19 1 Investment return and related benefits 12,327 11 32,037 44 Management charges 248 251 Other 341,796 317 Total as at 31 December 316,071 183 2 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 22,991 131 26,145 48 Total as at 31 December 293,080 52 315,651 269 1.
Investment return and related benefits is disclosed on a total basis including discontinued operations.
In the Consolidated Income Statement, the investment return for discontinued operations is included within Profit after tax from discontinued operations.
Detailed disclosure relating to the liabilities of operations classified as held for sale items is included in Note 27.
Following further analysis of the 2017 Movement in investment contract liabilities, the Reserves in respect of new business, Amounts paid on surrenders and maturities during the year and Investment return and related benefits had to be adjusted.
Total Investment contract liabilities as at 31 December 2017 was correct but the movement in the above lines was adjusted to reflect the accurate breakdown of the movement.
22 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the borrowing period using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings comprise core borrowings such as subordinated bond issues and long term unsecured senior debt and operational borrowings such as commercial paper issuance and bank borrowings under both committed and uncommitted debt facilities, including bank overdrafts.
Borrowings secured on specific assets cash flows are included as non recourse borrowings.
i Analysis by type Borrowings Borrowings excluding excluding unit linked Unit linked unit linked Unit linked borrowings borrowings Total borrowings borrowings Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Core borrowings 3,922 3,922 3,459 3,459 Operational borrowings 993 61 1,054 451 87 538 Total borrowings 4,915 61 4,976 3,910 87 3,997 1 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 28 28 Borrowings 4,887 61 4,948 3,910 87 3,997 1.
Detailed disclosure relating to liabilities of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
203m of interest expense was incurred during the year 2017: 191m on borrowings excluding non recourse and unit linked borrowings.
The total financing costs incurred for the year were 238m 2017: 212m.
180 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management ii Analysis by nature a Core borrowings Carrying Carrying amount Coupon rate Fair value amount Coupon rate Fair value 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m % m m % m Subordinated borrowings 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 405 5.88 409 408 5.88 428 10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 Tier 2 312 10.00 366 311 10.00 397 5.5% Sterling subordinated notes 2064 Tier 2 589 5.50 569 589 5.50 710 5.375% Sterling subordinated notes 2045 Tier 2 603 5.38 627 603 5.38 694 5.25% US Dollar subordinated rates 2047 Tier 2 659 5.25 612 628 5.25 679 5.55% US Dollar subordinated rates 2052 Tier 2 369 5.55 397 387 5.55 356 5.125% Sterling subordinated notes 2048 Tier 2 399 5.13 401 1 Client fund holdings of group debt 31 30 32 38 Total subordinated borrowings 3,323 3,310 2,876 3,267 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 609 5.88 824 609 5.88 857 1 Client fund holdings of group debt 10 13 26 37 Total senior borrowings 599 811 583 820 Total core borrowings 3,922 4,121 3,459 4,087 1.
41m 2017: 58m of the groups subordinated and senior borrowings are currently held by Legal & General customers through unit linked products.
These borrowings are shown as a deduction from total core borrowings in the table above.
The presented fair values of the groups core borrowings reflect quoted prices in active markets and they have been classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 Financial Statements 22 Borrowings continued ii Analysis by nature continued a Core borrowings continued Subordinated borrowings 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes In 2004, Legal & General Group Plc issued 400m of 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 1 April 2019 and every five years thereafter.
On 4 February 2019, notification was given that the group intends to redeem these notes in full on 1 April 2019.
Effective from the notification date, the notes were no longer treated as tier 2 own funds for Solvency II purposes.
10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 In 2009, Legal & General Group Plc issued 300m of 10% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 23 July 2021 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 23 July 2021 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 9.325% p. a.
These notes mature on 23 July 2041.
5.5% Sterling subordinated notes 2064 In 2014, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 5.5% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 27 June 2044 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 27 June 2044 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 3.17% p. a.
These notes mature on 27 June 2064.
5.375% Sterling subordinated notes 2045 In 2015, Legal & General Group Plc issued 600m of 5.375% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 27 October 2025 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 27 October 2025 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 4.58% p. a.
These notes mature on 27 October 2045.
5.25% US Dollar subordinated notes 2047 On 21 March 2017, Legal & General Group Plc issued $850m of 5.25% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 21 March 2027 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 21 March 2027 will be reset to the prevailing US Dollar mid-swap rate plus 3.687% p. a.
These notes mature on 21 March 2047.
5.55% US Dollar subordinated notes 2052 On 24 April 2017, Legal & General Group Plc issued $500m of 5.55% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 24 April 2032 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 24 April 2032 will be reset to the prevailing US Dollar mid-swap rate plus 4.19% p. a.
These notes mature on 24 April 2052.
5.125% Sterling subordinated notes 2048 On 14 November 2018, Legal & General Group Plc issued 400m of 5.125% dated subordinated notes.
The notes are callable at par on 14 November 2028 and every five years thereafter.
If not called, the coupon from 14 November 2028 will be reset to the prevailing five year benchmark gilt yield plus 4.65% p. a.
These notes mature on 14 November 2048.
All of the above subordinated notes are treated as tier 2 own funds for Solvency II purposes unless otherwise stated.
Senior borrowings Between 2000 and 2002 Legal & General Finance Plc issued 600m of senior unsecured Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 at coupons between 5.75% and 5.875%.
These notes have various maturity dates between 2031 and 2041.
182 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management b Operational borrowings Carrying Interest Carrying Interest amount rate Fair value amount rate Fair value 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m % m m % m Short term operational borrowings Euro Commercial Paper 293 0.93 293 349 1.27 349 Non recourse borrowings Consolidated Property Limited Partnerships 57 2.46 57 57 2.46 57 Later Living portfolio 76 2.75 76 45 3.20 45 CALA revolving credit facility 188 3.37 188 Class B Surplus Note 296 5.61 296 Bank loans and overdrafts 83 83 1 Total operational borrowings 993 993 451 451 2 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 28 2.46 28 Operational borrowings 965 965 451 451 1.
Unit linked borrowings with a carrying value of 61m 2017: 87m are excluded from the analysis above as the risk is retained by policyholders.
Operational borrowings including unit linked borrowings are 1,026m 2017: 538m.
Detailed disclosure related to liabilities of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27.
The Class B Surplus Note have been issued by a US subsidiary of the group as part of a coinsurance structure for the purpose of US statutory regulations.
The Note was issued in exchange for a bond of the same value from an unrelated party, included within financial investments on the groups Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Non recourse borrowings include Property Funds loans with a charge on the assets of the relevant Property Fund, loan facilities to Later Living SPVs with a charge on all assets of each individual SPV company, CALA Group Holdings Limiteds revolving credit facility secured by way of a bond and floating charge, and guarantees and fixed charges granted by CALA Group Limited and its main subsidiaries CALA 1999 Limited, CALA Limited, and CALA Management Limited.
A number of other bonds and floating charges, fixed securities, debentures and share pledges over land and assets have been granted by certain subsidiaries of CALA Group Limited in favour of the lenders.
The carrying value of operational borrowings approximates their fair value.
The presented fair values reflect observable market information and have been classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy with the exception of the Later Living portfolio which has been classified as Level 3.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 183 Financial Statements 22 Borrowings continued iii Analysis by maturity Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Carrying Within 1-5 5-15 15-25 Over amount 1 year years years years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 1 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 405 6 400 406 10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 Tier 2 312 13 300 313 5.5% Sterling subordinated notes 2064 Tier 2 589 600 600 5.375% Sterling subordinated notes 2045 Tier 2 603 6 600 606 5.25% US Dollar subordinated notes 2047 Tier 2 659 10 667 677 5.55% US Dollar subordinated notes 2052 Tier 2 387 4 392 396 5.125% Sterling subordinated notes 2048 Tier 2 399 3 400 403 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 609 11 590 10 611 Client fund holdings of group debt 41 Total core borrowings 3,922 53 590 310 3,059 4,012 Operational borrowings Euro Commercial Paper 293 293 293 Bank loans and overdrafts 83 83 83 Non recourse borrowings Consolidated Property Limited Partnerships 57 58 58 Later Living portfolio 76 15 61 76 CALA revolving credit facility 188 188 188 Class B Surplus Note 296 296 296 Total operational borrowings 993 579 119 296 994 2 Less: borrowings of operations classified as held for sale 28 28 28 Operational borrowings 965 579 91 296 966 3 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings 4,887 632 91 590 606 3,059 4,978 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 195 1,240 2,050 1,358 715 5,558 Total contractual undiscounted cash flows 827 1,331 2,640 1,964 3,774 10,536 1.
Unit linked borrowings are excluded from the analysis above as the risk is retained by policyholders.
184 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Maturity profile of undiscounted cash flows Carrying Within 1-5 5-15 15-25 Over amount 1 year years years years 25 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Subordinated borrowings 5.875% Sterling undated subordinated notes Tier 2 408 6 400 406 10% Sterling subordinated notes 2041 Tier 2 311 13 300 313 5.5% Sterling subordinated notes 2064 Tier 2 589 600 600 5.375% Sterling subordinated notes 2045 Tier 2 603 6 600 606 5.25% US Subordinated notes 2047 Tier 2 628 9 628 637 5.55% US Subordinated notes 2052 Tier 2 369 4 370 374 Senior borrowings Sterling medium term notes 2031-2041 609 11 350 250 611 Client fund holdings of group debt 58 Total core borrowings 3,459 49 350 550 2,598 3,547 Operational borrowings Euro Commercial Paper 349 349 349 Non recourse borrowings Consolidated Property Limited Partnerships 57 57 57 Later Living portfolio 45 46 46 Total operational borrowings 451 349 103 452 1 Total borrowings excluding unit linked borrowings 3,910 398 103 350 550 2,598 3,999 Contractual undiscounted interest payments 161 837 1,868 1,153 823 4,842 Total contractual undiscounted cash flows 559 940 2,218 1,703 3,421 8,841 1.
The maturity profile above is calculated on the basis that a facility to refinance a maturing loan is not recognised unless the facility and loan are related.
If refinancing under the groups credit facilities was recognised, then all amounts shown as repayable within one year would be reclassified as repayable between one and five years.
Unit linked borrowings are excluded from the analysis as the risk is retained by the policyholders.
Undiscounted interest payments are estimated based on the year end applicable interest rate and spot exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2018, the group had in place a 1.0bn syndicated committed revolving credit facility provided by a number of its key relationship banks, maturing in December 2022.
No amounts were outstanding at 31 December 2018. iv Movement in borrowings 2018 2017 m m As at 1 January 3,997 3,501 Cash movements: Proceeds from borrowings 960 1,232 Repayment of borrowings 325 600 Net increase in bank loans and overdrafts 57 81 Non-cash movements: 1 Acquisition 210 45 Amortisation 15 17 Deconsolidation of investment in property fund 150 Foreign exchange movements 74 101 Other 18 6 Total borrowings as at 31 December 4,976 3,997 2 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 28 Total borrowings 4,948 3,997 1.
Includes borrowings in CALA Homes which have been consolidated following the stepped acquisition of CALA Homes during the year.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 185 Financial Statements 23 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The assets of all UK defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds which are subject to regular actuarial valuations every three years, updated by formal reviews at reporting dates.
The actuarial assumptions used in the triennial valuation would normally be consistent or more prudent than those used for the purposes of IAS 19 reporting.
The liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, provided any surplus in the Fund and Scheme is not restricted.
Plan assets exclude the insurance contracts issued by the group.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated actuarially each year using the projected unit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The discount rate is based on market yields of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity which approximate to those of the related pension liability.
The group pays contractual contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes.
The group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
i Analysis of provisions 2018 2017 m m Retirement benefit obligations 1,112 1,266 Other provisions 29 73 Total provisions 1,141 1,339 1 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 1 4 Provisions 1,140 1,335 1.
Detailed disclosure related to liabilities of operations classified as held for sale is included in Note 27. ii Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following principal defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group Personal Pension Plan UK : Legal & General Staff Stakeholder Pension Scheme UK : Legal & General America Inc. Savings Plan US : and CALA defined contribution pension scheme Contributions of 55m 2017: 49m were charged as expenses during the year in respect of defined contribution schemes.
Defined benefit schemes The group operates the following defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas: Legal & General Group UK Pension and Assurance Fund the Fund.
The Fund was closed to new members from January 1995: the last full actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2015: Legal & General Group UK Senior Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was, with a few exceptions principally transfers from the Fund, closed to new members from August 2000 and finally closed to new members from April 2007: the last full actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2015: Legal & General America Inc. Cash Balance Plan US : the last full actuarial valuation was as at 31 December 2017: and CALA Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme UK.
This scheme closed to new members from 31 December 2007 and closed to future accrual on 31 December 2015: the last triennial actuarial valuation was as at 30 April 2015.
The UK defined benefit schemes operate within the UK pensions regulatory framework.
The UK Fund and Scheme were closed to future accrual on 31 December 2015.
As part of this arrangement, payments to the Fund and Scheme in respect of future accruals ceased from this date and were replaced with a company contribution payment of between 5% and 15% into a defined contribution arrangement.
In addition, as part of the closure, the company will contribute an additional 3m per annum until 31 December 2024 towards the deficit.
The assets of all UK defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds to meet long term pension obligations to past and present employees.
Trustees are appointed to the schemes and have a responsibility to act in the best interest of the scheme beneficiaries.
The trustees long term objectives are to minimise the risk that there are insufficient assets to meet the liabilities of the scheme over the longer term, control the on-going operational costs of the schemes and to maximise investment returns for the beneficiaries within an acceptable level of risk.
186 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management The total number of members of the Fund and Scheme was: 2018 2017 Employed deferreds 171 264 Deferreds 3,292 3,568 Pensioners 3,657 3,593 Total 7,120 7,425 The group works closely with the trustees to develop an investment strategy for each UK scheme in order to meet the long term objectives of the trustees as noted above.
Each UK scheme has a Statement of Investment Principles which governs the mix of assets and limits for each class of asset.
As noted below, the asset mix of the UK defined benefit schemes is primarily split between bonds including Liability Driven Investment LDI funds and unit trusts, equities and property.
The main goal of the use of LDI is to hedge movements in the liabilities due to changes in interest rate and inflation expectations.
On a gilts flat measure, the Fund and Scheme currently hedge 61% interest rate changes and 62% inflation expectation changes in respect of the non-insured liabilities.
Additionally, certain parts of the liabilities of the scheme are secured by way of annuities purchased from the group.
These annuities are not recognised as an asset for IAS 19 purposes, but at 31 December 2018 the value of these annuities, on an IAS 19 basis, was 858m 2017: 875m.
The Fund and Scheme expose the group to a number of risks: Risk Detail Uncertainty in The value of the groups liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will primarily depend on the level of inflation and how long individuals live.
benefit payments Volatility in The group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in the Fund and Scheme to meet future benefit payments.
asset values Uncertainty in Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In addition, the group cash funding is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
These risks are managed within the risk appetite of the Fund and Scheme.
The sensitivity of the net obligations to changes in any of the variables are monitored and action is taken if any risk moves outside of the appetite.
Annuities are purchased to mitigate risks for certain parts of the pension liabilities which passes the risks from the Fund and Scheme onto the group.
Full actuarial valuations are carried out on the Fund and Scheme every three years, updated by formal reviews at each reporting date.
The actuarial assumptions used in the triennial valuation would normally be more prudent than those used for the purposes of IAS 19 reporting.
Where the Fund or Scheme are in deficit following the triennial valuations, the group and the trustee agree a deficit recovery plan.
Both the Fund and Scheme have formal deficit recovery plans which aim to make good the deficits over a certain period of time.
The triennial valuation at 31 December 2015 showed a total funding deficit for both the Fund and Scheme of 599m.
As a result of this, a recovery plan was agreed of 77m a year until 2024.
The latest triennial valuation at 31 December 2015 was completed on 15 August 2017.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187 Financial Statements 23 Provisions continued ii Retirement benefit obligations continued The Fund and the Scheme liabilities have an average duration of 19.1 years 2017: 19.8 years and 18.7 years 2017: 20.1 years respectively.
The expected undiscounted benefits payments to members of the Fund and Scheme, including pensions in payment secured by annuities purchased from the group, are shown in the unaudited chart below: Undiscounted benefit payments Projected benefit payments m 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2018 2028 2038 2048 2058 2068 2078 2088 Annuity payments Pensioner cashows Employed Deferred and Deferred member cashows The benefits paid from the defined benefit schemes are based on percentages of the employees final pensionable salary for each year of credited service.
The group has no liability for retirement benefits other than for pensions.
The Fund and Scheme account for all of the UK and over 90% of worldwide assets of the groups defined benefit schemes.
The principal actuarial assumptions for the Fund and Scheme were: Fund and Fund and Scheme Scheme 2018 2017 % % Rate used to discount liabilities 2.88 2.47 Rate of increase in pensions in payment pre-2006 service 3.69 3.67 Rate of increase in deferred pensions pre-2006 service 3.81 3.78 Rate of general inflation RPI 3.23 3.18 Post retirement mortality 2018: 75% 85% Male Female Fund and 70% 80% Male Female Scheme of PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at CMI 2016 base date 2015 with long term rates 1.5% pa males and 1.0% pa females, with tapering linearly down to nil between ages 90 and 120.
2017: 80% 90% Male Female Fund and 70% 80% Male Female Scheme of PCMA PCFA 00 with improvement at CMI 2015 base date 2013 with long term rates 1.5% pa males and 1.0% pa females, with tapering linearly down to nil between ages 90 and 120.
This equates to average life expectancy as follows: Fund and Fund and Scheme Scheme 2018 2017 years years Normal retirement age 60.0 60.0 Male life expectancy at retirement age 87.7 88.0 Female life expectancy at retirement age 88.8 88.9 Male life expectancy at 20 years younger than retirement age 89.8 90.6 Female life expectancy at 20 years younger than retirement age 90.2 90.6 188 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management CALA Fund and Homes and Fund and Scheme Overseas Scheme Overseas 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations As at 1 January 2,543 32 2,628 32 1 Acquisition 87 Current service cost 3 2 2 2 Past service cost 1 Interest expense 60 4 67 1 Actuarial remeasurement recognised in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Change in financial assumptions 186 5 102 Change in demographic assumptions 30 11 Experience 14 7 23 1 Benefits paid 193 10 244 1 Exchange differences 2 3 As at 31 December 2,183 120 2,543 32 Movement in fair value of plan assets As at 1 January 1,282 27 1,394 27 1 Acquisition 77 Expected return on plan assets at liability discount rate 30 4 37 1 Actuarial remeasurement recognised in Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 4 3 1 Employer contributions 80 4 92 1 Benefits paid 193 10 244 1 Exchange differences 1 2 As at 31 December 1,092 99 1,282 27 Gross pension obligations 1,091 21 1,261 5 Gross pension obligations included in provisions 1,091 21 1,261 5 Annuity obligations insured by LGAS 858 875 Gross defined benefit pension deficit 233 21 386 5 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension deficit 41 1 69 1 Net defined benefit pension deficit 192 20 317 4 1.
Acquisition relates to CALA Homes defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets following stepped acquisition of CALA Homes in March 2018.
During 2018 annuities were purchased from the group.
A premium of 59m 2017: 161m was paid from the assets of the Fund and the Scheme to purchase these annuities.
These annuities are not recognised as an asset for IAS 19 purposes and so the actuarial remeasurement recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income includes allowance for this premium payment as well as annuity receipts over 2018 of 50m 2017: 53m.
On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled that UK pension schemes must equalise Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP to ensure that male and female members of schemes were treated equitably.
This judgement applied to GMP accrued between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997.
The impact of GMP equalisation on the value of the groups defined benefit schemes is estimated to be negligible.
The effect on the defined benefit obligation of the Fund and Scheme of assuming reasonable alternative assumptions in isolation is shown below.
Opposite sensitivities are broadly symmetrical, but larger sensitivities are not necessarily broadly proportionate due to the existence of maxima and minima for inflation linked benefits.
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
This is unlikely in practice for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Fund and Scheme.
2018 2017 m m 1 year increase in longevity 78 92 0.1% decrease in the rate used to discount liabilities 40 43 0.1% increase in the rate of general inflation RPI 20 25 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 189 Financial Statements 23 Provisions continued ii Retirement benefit obligations continued The historic funding and experience adjustments are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,303 2,575 2,660 2,317 2,404 Fair value of plan assets 1,191 1,309 1,421 1,186 1,187 Gross pension obligations included in provisions 1,112 1,266 1,239 1,131 1,217 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 7 22 76 38 7 Experience adjustments on plan assets 111 4 240 62 133 The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the year is made up as follows: Valuation based on Valuation based on other quoted market price than quoted market price Fund and CALA Homes Fund and CALA Homes scheme and Overseas scheme and Overseas As at 31 December 2018 m m m m Equities 113 21 Bonds 913 69 Properties 4 52 1 Other investments 14 5 Fair value of plan assets 1,040 99 52 Valuation based on Valuation based on other quoted market price than quoted market price Fund and Fund and scheme Overseas scheme Overseas As at 31 December 2017 m m m m Equities 78 13 Bonds 1,111 8 Properties 74 Other investments 19 3 3 Fair value of plan assets 1,208 24 74 3 1.
Other investments mainly consist of cash and cash equivalents.
The bond assets are of investment grade as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: Investment grade.
Employer contributions of 84m 2017: 93m have been made during 2018.
Employer contributions of 83m are expected to be paid to the plan during 2019.
The following amounts have been charged to the income statement: Fund and CALA Homes Fund and scheme and Overseas scheme Overseas 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Current service costs 3 2 2 2 Past service costs 1 Net interest expense 29 31 Total amounts included in other expenses 32 3 33 2 190 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 24 Payables and other financial liabilities Derivative liabilities and repurchase agreements are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value of derivative liabilities is derived using broker quotes or models such as option pricing models, simulation models or a combination ofmodels.
The inputs for these models include a range of factors which are deemed to be observable, including current market and contractual prices for underlying instruments, period to maturity, correlations, yield curves and volatility of the underlying instruments.
Repurchase agreements are valued based on the discounted cash flows expected to be paid, using an observable market interest rate, in line with the value of the underlying security.
Collateral repayable on short position reverse repurchase agreements and other financial liabilities balances, including FX spots, broker and other payables, are measured at amortised cost.
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates their fair value.
Trail commission represents a liability for the present value of future commission costs on distribution agreements with intermediaries, recognised inthe Consolidated Balance Sheet on inception of the contract.
At each subsequent reporting date the liability is remeasured, with changes reflectedin profit or loss.
2018 2017 m m Derivative liabilities 7,791 8,173 1 Repurchase agreements 43,775 32,357 2 Other financial liabilities 11,406 12,026 Total payables and other financial liabilities 62,972 52,556 3 Less: liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 424 310 Payables and other financial liabilities 62,548 52,246 4 Due within 12 months 47,212 51,178 4 Due after 12 months 11,794 5,344 1.
The repurchase agreements are presented gross, however they and their related assets included within debt securities are subject to master netting arrangements.
The vast majority of the repurchase agreements are unit linked.
Other financial liabilities includes trail commission, FX spots and collateral repayable on short position reverse repurchase agreements.
The value of collateral repayable on short position reverse repurchase agreements was 4,883m 2017: 5,138m.
The maturity analysis of the liabilities between less and more than 12 months is based on the Total payables and other financial liabilities.
Fair value hierarchy Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Derivative liabilities 7,791 337 7,452 2 Repurchase agreements 43,775 43,775 Other financial liabilities 11,406 4,718 35 496 6,157 Total payables and other financial liabilities 62,972 5,055 51,262 498 6,157 Amortised Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 cost As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Derivative liabilities 8,173 193 7,969 11 Repurchase agreements 32,357 32,357 Other financial liabilities 12,026 4,793 7 140 7,086 Total payables and other financial liabilities 52,556 4,986 40,333 151 7,086 Trail commission included within Other financial liabilities is modelled using expected cash flows, incorporating expected future persistency.
It has therefore been classified as Level 3 liabilities.
The entire movement in the balance has been reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement during the period.
A reasonably possible alternative persistency assumption would have the effect of increasing the trail commission liability by 4m 2017: 4m.
Significant transfers between levels There have been no significant transfers of liabilities between Levels 1, 2 and 3 for the year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: no significant transfers.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 Financial Statements 25 Management of capital resources Solvency II The group is required to measure and monitor its capital resources on a regulatory basis and to comply with the minimum capital requirements of regulators in each territory in which it operates.
At a group level, Legal & General had to comply with the requirements established by the Solvency II Framework Directive, as adopted by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA at the balance sheet date.
The group calculates its Solvency II capital requirements using a Partial Internal Model.
The vast majority of the risk to which the group is exposed is assessed on the Internal Model basis approved by the PRA.
Capital requirements for a few smaller entities are assessed using the Standard Formula basis on materiality grounds.
The groups US insurance businesses are valued on a local statutory basis, following the PRAs approval to use the Deduction and Aggregation method of including these businesses in the group solvency calculation.
The table below shows the shareholder view of the group Own Funds, Solvency Capital Requirement SCR and Surplus Own Funds, based on the Partial Internal Model, Matching Adjustment and Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions TMTP recalculated as at end December 2018.
The TMTP incorporates estimated impacts of end 2018 economic conditions and changes during 2018 to the Internal Model and Matching Adjustment approvals.
This is in line with groups management of the capital position on a dynamic TMTP basis.
The Solvency II results are estimated and unaudited.
As at 31 December 2018, and on the above basis, the group had a surplus of 6.9bn 31 December 2017: 6.9bn over its Solvency Capital Requirement, corresponding to a Solvency II capital coverage ratio on a shareholder view basis of 188% 31 December 2017: 189%.
The shareholder view of the Solvency II capital position is as follows: 2018 2017 bn bn Core tier 1 Own Funds 11.5 11.6 1 Tier 2 subordinated liabilities 3.5 3.1 Eligibility restrictions 0.2 0.1 2,3 Solvency II Own Funds 14.8 14.6 Solvency Capital Requirement 7.9 7.7 Solvency II surplus 6.9 6.9 4 SCR coverage ratio 188% 189% 1.
Tier 2 subordinated liabilities include 400m of subordinated debt issued during 2018.
Liabilities also include 400m of debt callable in 2019.
Effective from the notification date, the notes would no longer be treated as tier 2 own funds for Solvency II purposes.
Solvency II Own Funds do not include an accrual for the full year dividend of 704m 2017: 658m declared after the balance sheet date.
Solvency II Own Funds allow for a risk margin of 5.5bn 31 December 2017: 5.9bn and TMTP of 5.2bn 31 December 2017: 6.2bn.
Coverage ratio is based on unrounded inputs.
The shareholder view basis excludes the contribution that the with-profits fund and the final salary pension scheme would normally make to the group position.
This is reflected by reducing the groups Own Funds and the groups SCR by the amount of the SCR for the with-profits fund and the final salary pension scheme.
On a proforma basis, which includes the contribution of with-profits fund and the final salary pension scheme in the groups Own Funds and corresponding SCR, the coverage ratio at 31 December 2018 is 181% 31 December 2017: 181%.
On 6 December 2017 the group announced the sale of its Mature Savings business to Swiss Re.
Swiss Re assumed the economic exposure of the business from 1 January 2018 via a risk transfer agreement.
It is expected that the formal transfer of the business will be completed in 2019, subject to satisfaction of normal conditions for a transaction including court sanction.
The transfer will be effected by way of a Part VII transfer under the Financial Services Markets Act 2000.
The impact of the risk transfer agreement is reflected in both Own Funds and SCR as at 31 December 2018.
A reconciliation of the groups IFRS shareholders equity to Own Funds is given below: 1 2018 2017 bn bn 2 IFRS shareholders equity 8.6 7.5 2 Remove DAC, goodwill and other intangible assets and associated liabilities 0.8 0.4 3 Add IFRS carrying value of subordinated debt treated as available capital under Solvency II 3.3 2.9 4 Insurance contract valuation differences 5.1 6.2 Difference in value of net deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.7 SCR for with-profits fund and final salary pension schemes 0.8 0.7 5 Other 0.1 0.1 6 Eligibility restrictions 0.2 0.1 7 Solvency II Own Funds 14.8 14.6 1.
Following a change in accounting policy for LGIA term assurance reserves, specific IFRS balance sheet items have been restated, notably deferred acquisition costs, reinsurers share of contract liabilities, non-participating insurance contracts, deferred tax liabilities and other liabilities.
The overall net impact on the groups IFRS shareholders equity as at 31 December 2017 is a reduction of 327m.
Values are per the consolidated financial statements.
Treated as available capital on the Solvency II balance sheet as the liabilities are subordinate to policyholder claims.
Differences in the measurement of technical provisions between IFRS and Solvency II.
Reflects valuation differences on other assets and liabilities, predominately in respect of borrowings measured at fair value under Solvency II.
Relating to the Own Funds of non-insurance regulated entities that are subject to local regulatory rules.
192 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management Capital management policies and objectives The group aims to manage its capital resources to maintain financial strength, policyholder security and relative external ratings advantage.
The group also seeks to maximise its financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and by utilising a range of alternative sources of capital including equity, senior debt, subordinated debt and reinsurance.
Capital measures The group measures its capital on a number of different bases, including those which comply with the regulatory frameworks within which the group operates and those which the directors consider most appropriate for managing the business.
The measures used by the group include: Accounting and economic bases Management use financial information prepared on both an IFRS and Economic Capital basis to manage capital and cash flow usage and to determine dividend paying capacity.
The group maintains a risk-based capital model that is used to calculate the groups Economic Capital position and support the management of risk within the group.
This modelling framework, suitably adjusted for regulatory constraints, also meets the needs of the Solvency II regime.
Our Economic Capital model has not been reviewed by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA, nor will it be.
Regulatory bases The financial strength of the groups insurance subsidiaries is measured under various local regulatory requirements see below.
Basis of regulatory capital and corresponding regulatory capital requirements In each country in which the group operates, the local insurance regulator specifies rules and guidance for the minimum amount and type of capital which must be held by insurance subsidiaries in excess of their insurance liabilities.
The minimum capital requirements have been maintained at all times throughout the year.
This helps to ensure that payments to policyholders can be made as they fall due.
The required capital is calculated by either assessing the additional assets which would be required to meet the insurance companys liabilities in specified, stressed financial conditions, or by applying fixed percentages to the insurance companys liabilities and risk exposures.
The requirements in the different jurisdictions in which the group operates are detailed below: Group regulatory basis The group is required to comply with the Solvency II capital requirements using a Partial Internal Model.
The group capital requirements for a handful of smaller entities are assessed using the Standard Formula basis on materiality grounds.
The groups capital requirements in respect of its US insurance businesses are valued on a local statutory basis, following PRA approval of the groups application to use the Deduction and Aggregation method of including these businesses in the group solvency calculation.
UK regulatory basis At the balance sheet date, required capital for the life business was based on the Solvency II Framework Directive, as adopted by the PRA.
All material EEA insurance firms, including Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, Legal & General Insurance Limited, and Legal and General Assurance Pensions Management Limited LGIMs insurance subsidiary are required to hold eligible own funds in excess of their Solvency Capital Requirement, calculated on an Internal Model basis.
These firms, as well as the non-EEA insurance firm Legal & General Reinsurance Company Limited LGRe based in Bermuda contribute over 94% of the groups SCR.
US regulatory basis Required capital is determined to be the Company Action Level Risk Based Capital RBC based on the National Association of Insurance Commissioners RBC model.
RBC is a method of measuring the minimum amount of capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations, taking into account its size and risk profile.
The calculation is based on applying factors to various asset, premium, claims, expense and reserve items, with higher factors used for those items with greater underlying risk and lower factors for less risky items.
Bermudan regulatory basis Bermudan regulated insurers are required to hold sufficient capital to meet 120% of the Bermudan Solvency Capital Requirement BSCR.
The BSCR model follows a standard formula framework: capital attributed to each risk is calculated by applying capital factors to the assets and liabilities.
The individual risk elements excluding operational risk are combined using a covariance matrix and then added to an operational risk charge.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 193 Financial Statements 26 Acquisitions Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method, under which the acquirer recognises the acquirees fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the acquisition date.
Purchased goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
Private equity investment vehicles classified as subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group directly or indirectly has the power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to gain economic benefits.
Profits or losses of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the year are included in the consolidated results up to the date of disposal or from the date of gaining control.
CALA Group Holdings Limited On 12 March 2018 the group increased its shareholding in CALA Group Holdings Limited CALA Homes to 100% by acquiring the remaining 52.12% shareholding of the company it did not previously own.
Under the agreement, the counterparty for 152m of loan notes payable by CALA Homes was novated to the group and the loan notes subsequently cancelled which reduced the fair value of the purchase consideration from 605m to 453m.
The transaction has been accounted for as a stepped acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, resulting in the recognition of a one-off profit of 20m.
The assets and liabilities acquired at the point of the transaction have been recorded at their fair values for the purposes of the acquisition balance sheet and included in the consolidated accounts of the group using the groups accounting policies in accordance with IFRS.
The following table summarises the consideration for the acquisition, fair value of the 100% share of the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and resulting allocation to goodwill.
Fair value m Assets Intangible assets 25 Other non-current assets 4 Inventories 1,006 Other receivables 34 Cash and cash equivalents 18 Total assets 1,087 Liabilities Loans and borrowings 362 Trade and other payables 271 1 Other liabilities 33 Total Liabilities 666 Fair value of net assets acquired 421 Fair value of purchase consideration 453 Goodwill arising on acquisition 32 1.
Other liabilities include deferred tax balances.
Fair value adjustments arising on acquisition were in relation to identifiable intangible assets, inventories and related deferred tax liabilities.
The residual goodwill recognised on acquisition, none of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes, is attributable to the network of customers and contractors and the pipeline of future land and homes that could not be directly attributed to homes currently under construction or the brand acquired.
There were no contingent consideration arrangements or indemnification assets recognised on acquisition.
Other acquisitions During the year ended 31 December 2018, the group completed the acquisitions of 100% shareholdings in Canvas the European exchange-traded fund platform and Buddies Enterprises Limited.
The assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses have been recorded at their fair values for the purposes of the acquisition balance sheet and included in the consolidated accounts of the group using the groups accounting policies in accordance with IFRS.
A total residual goodwill of 22m has been recognised in respect of these acquisitions.
194 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Balance sheet management 27 Held for sale and discontinued operations On 6 December 2017 the group announced the sale of its Mature Savings business to Swiss Re for 650m.
The sale is expected to finalise in 2019 following the completion of the Part VII transfer.
On 1 June 2018 the group announced the sale of its stake in IndiaFirst Life Insurance Company Limited IndiaFirst Life, a joint venture, to an affiliate of Warburg Pincus LLC for INR 7.1bn c. 79m at GBP:INR 1:90.
The sale completed on 7 February 2019.
The total balances classified as held for sale, and as discontinued operations, as a result of these transactions is presented below.
i Assets and liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 2018 2017 m m Purchased interest in long term business and other intangible assets 3 3 Deferred acquisition costs 438 438 Investments in associates and joint ventures 33 73 Investment property 1,643 1,227 Financial investments 22,882 20,062 Reinsurers share of contract liabilities 179 97 Cash and cash equivalents 322 767 1 Other assets 289 362 Assets of operations classified as held for sale 26,234 22,584 2 Assets in consolidated funds 3,067 11,065 Total assets of the disposal groups 29,301 33,649 3 Insurance contract and related liabilities 6,243 7,136 4 Investment contract liabilities 22,991 26,145 Operational borrowings 28 Payables and other financial liabilities 424 310 1 Other liabilities 156 367 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 29,842 33,958 Total net liabilities of the disposal groups 541 309 1.
Other assets and other liabilities include current and deferred tax balances.
Included in total assets of the disposal groups are assets in consolidated funds, which are held by the Mature Savings business and disclosed within financial investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The group controls these funds and therefore consolidates 100% of the assets with any non-controlling interest recognised in the Net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Following the disposal of the Mature Savings business, the group currently anticipates that it will retain control of these funds and so will continue to consolidate 100% of the assets while increasing the Net asset attributable to unit holders.
Insurance contract liabilities include participating insurance contracts, unallocated divisional surplus relating to with-profits business net of the value of in-force non-participating contracts.
Investment contract liabilities include participating and non-participating investment contracts.
ii Financial performance of discontinued operations 2018 2017 m m 1 Revenue 1,130 3,000 2 Expenses 1,209 2,901 Profit before tax 79 99 Tax expense 15 19 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 64 80 Total comprehensive income from discontinued operations 64 80 1.
Expenses include change in insurance and investment contract liabilities.
iii Cash flow information of discontinued operations 2018 2017 m m Net cash outflow from operating activities 31 464 Net cash outflow from investing activities Net cash outflow from financing activities 89 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 195
