Other inf Other infor ormation mation Alternative Performance Measures An alternative performance measure APM is a financial measure of Assets under Management AUM historic or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, Definition other than a financial measure defined under IFRS or the regulations of Funds which are managed by our fund managers on behalf of investors.
APMs offer investors additional information on the companys It represents the total amount of money investors have trusted with our performance and the financial effect of one-off events, and the group fund managers to invest across our investment products.
uses a range of these metrics to provide a better understanding of its Closest IFRS measures underlying performance.
The APMs used by the group are listed in this Financial investments section, along with their definition explanation, their closest IFRS Investment property measure and reference to the reconciliations to those IFRS measures.
Group adjusted operating profit previously labelled as operating profit Reconciliation Definition Note 37 Reconciliation of Assets under management to Consolidated Group adjusted operating profit measures the pre-tax result excluding Balance Sheet financial investments, investment property and cash and the impact of investment volatility, economic assumption changes cash equivalents.
It, therefore, reflects longer-term economic Net release from operations assumptions for the groups insurance businesses and shareholder Definition funds, except for LGCs trading businesses which reflects the IFRS Release from operations plus new business surplus strain.
Net release profit before tax and LGA non-term business which excludes from operations was previously referred to as net cash, and includes the unrealised investment returns to align with the liability measurement release of prudent margins from the back book, together with the under US GAAP.
Variances between actual and smoothed investment premium received less the setup of prudent reserves and associated return assumptions are reported below group adjusted operating profit, acquisition costs for new business.
as well as any differences between investment return on actual assets and the long-term asset mix.
Exceptional income and expenses which Closest IFRS measure arise outside the normal course of business in the period, such as Profit before tax attributable to equity holders.
merger and acquisition and start-up costs, are also excluded from Reconciliation group adjusted operating profit.
Note 2 Supplementary operating profit information sections i and ii.
Group adjusted operating profit was previously described as Adjusted profit before tax attributable to equity holders operating profit.
In order to maintain a consistent understanding of previously labelled as profit before tax attributable to the groups performance the term operating profit will continue to equity holders be used throughout the annual report and accounts as a substitute Definition for group adjusted operating profit.
The APM measures profit before tax attributable to shareholders Closest IFRS measure incorporating actual investment returns experienced during the year and Profit before tax attributable to equity holders.
the pre-tax results of discontinued operations.
Reconciliation Closest IFRS measure Note 2 Supplementary operating profit information section i.
Profit before tax attributable to equity holders.
Return on Equity ROE Reconciliation Definition Note 2 Supplementary operating profit information section i. ROE measures the return earned by shareholders on shareholder capital retained within the business.
ROE is calculated as IFRS profit for the year attributable to equity holders divided by average IFRS shareholders funds by reference to opening and closing shareholders funds as provided in the IFRS consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period.
Closest IFRS measure Calculated using: Profit attributable to equity holders Equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Reconciliation Calculated using profit attributable to equity holders of 1,827m 2017: 1,891m and average equity attributable to the owners of the parent of 8,048 m 2017: 7,394m.
240 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
