Other information Shareholder information Annual General Meeting To register for the Share Portal just visit landgshareportal.
The 2019 AGM will be held on Thursday, 23 May 2019 at 11amat You willneed is your Investor Code, which can be found on your share The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, certificate or by contacting Link Asset Services.
The AGM provides the Board with Customer support centre the opportunity to meet shareholders.
The Board regards the AGM as Alternatively, you can contact Link Customer Support Centre an important opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
whichisavailable to answer any queries you have in relation to The Notice of Meeting and all other details for the AGM are available at: yourshareholding: legalandgeneralgroup.
By phone 0371 402 3341 Dividend information Dividend per share By email landgshares@linkgroup.
co. uk This year the directors are recommending the payment of a final By post Link Asset Services, The Registry, dividend of 11.82 pence per share.
If you add this to your interim 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU dividend of 4.60 pence per share, the total dividend recommended for 2018 will be 16.42 pence per share 2017: 15.35 pence per share.
Sign up to electronic communications The key dates for the payment of dividends are set out in the Help us save paper and get your shareholder information important dates section on page 239. quickly and securely by signing up to receive your shareholder communications by email.
Communications Internet Registering for electronic communications is very straightforward.
Information about the company, including details of the current share Just visit landgshareportal.
All you need is your Investor Code, price, is available on the website, legalandgeneralgroup.
which can be found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.
Investor relations Corporate sponsored nominee Private investors should contact the Registrar with any queries.
The corporate sponsored nominee allows you to hold shares in the Institutional investors can contact the investor relations teamby email: company without the need for a share certificate and enables you to investor.
benefit from shorter market settlement periods.
Individual shareholders hold their Legal & General shares in a nominee holding registered in the Financial reports name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited.
To join or obtain further The companys financial reports are available on the website.
You will be sent a booklet outlining TheAnnual Report and Accounts are sent to those shareholders the terms and conditions under which your shares will be held.
who have elected to receive paper copies.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by email by registering on Dividend payment options landgshareportal.
If you receive more than one copy of our Re-invest your dividends communications, it could be because you have more than one record Links Dividend Re-investment Plan offers a convenient way for on the share register.
To avoid duplicate mailings, please contact the shareholders to build up their shareholding by using dividend money to Registrar, who can arrange for your accounts to be amalgamated.
The plan is provided by Link Asset Services, a trading name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited which is Registrar authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Link Asset Services is the Registrar and offer many services to make managing your shareholding easier and more efficient.
For more information and an application pack, please call 0371 402 3341.
Alternatively you can email Share Portal landgshares@linkgroup.
co. uk or log on to landgshareportal.
The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily.
You can: It is important to remember that the value of shares and income from them can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the amount of view your holding and get an indicative valuation money you invest.
Past performance should not be seen as indicative change your address of future performance.
This arrangement should be considered as part arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account of a diversified portfolio.
request to receive shareholder communications by email Arrange to have your dividends paid direct into your bank account ratherthanpost The advantages are: view your dividend payment history your dividend reaches your bank account on the payment date make dividend payment choices it is more secure cheques can sometimes get lost in the post buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock market news you dont have the inconvenience of depositing a cheque andinformation it helps reduce cheque fraud.
register your proxy voting instruction download a stock transfer form.
238 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other information Shareholder information If you have a UK bank account you can sign up for this service on the Share fraud warning Share Portal by clicking on your dividend options and following the Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors on-screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an Choose to receive your next dividend in your local currency upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell If you live outside the UK, Link has partnered with Deutsche Bank to shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive How to avoid share fraud payment directly into your local bank account or, alternatively, you can Have you been: be sent a currency draft.
contacted out of the blue: You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on promised tempting returns and told the investment is safe: your dividend options and following the on-screen instructions or called repeatedly: or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
told the offer is only available for a limited time?
For further information contact Link If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
By phone UK 0371 402 3341 By email shareportal@linkgroup.
R eject cold calls If youve been cold called with an offer to buy or sell shares, chances Buy and sell shares are its a high risk investment or a scam.
You should treat the call with A simple and competitively priced service to buy and sell shares is extreme caution.
The safest thing to do is to hang up.
provided by Link Asset Services.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated application forms to fill in.
C heck the firm on the FS register at fca.
com you can also access a wealth of stock market The Financial Services Register is a public record of all the firms news and information free of charge.
andindividuals in the financial services industry that are regulated bythe FCA.
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, visit linksharedeal.
G et impartial advice Think about getting impartial financial advice before you hand over This is not a recommendation to buy and sell shares and this service any money.
Seek advice from someone unconnected to the firm that may not be suitable for all shareholders.
The price of shares can go has approached you.
down as well as up and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
Terms, conditions and risks apply.
If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk scamsmart Link Asset Services is a trading name of Link Market Services Trustees where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
This service is only available to private shareholders resident in the European Economic Area, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at actionfraud.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 9am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
C alls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 8am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in General information England and Wales.
Capital gains tax: for the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 of each share was 7.996 pence after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue and the 1996 and 1999 Important dates: sub-divisions, but not reflecting any rights taken up under the 2002 25 April 2019 Ex-dividend date final dividend rights issue.
15 May 2019 Last day for DRIP elections Close company provisions: The company is not a close company 23 May 2019 Annual General Meeting within the terms of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
6 June 2019 Payment of final dividend for 2018 to members registered on 26 April 2019 Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA.
7 August 2019 Half-year results 2019 Registered in England and Wales, No.
15 August 2019 Ex-dividend date interim dividend Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder offers on 26 September 2019 Payment of interim dividend for 2019 Legal & General products, call 0800 107 6830. to members registered on 16 August 2019 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 239
