Other information Glossary Ad valorem fees Credit rating Ongoing management fees earned on assets under management, A measure of the ability of an individual, organisation or country to repay overlay assets and advisory assets as defined below.
The highest rating is usually AAA and the lowest Unrated.
Ratings are usually issued by a credit rating agency e. g. Moodys or Standard & Adjusted profit before tax attributable to equity holders Poors or a credit bureau.
Refer to the alternative performance measures section.
Deduction and aggregation D&A Advisory assets A method of calculating group solvency on a Solvency II basis, whereby These are assets on which Global Index Advisors GIA provide advisory the assets and liabilities of certain entities are excluded from the group services.
Advisory assets are beneficially owned by GIAs clients and all consolidation.
The net contribution from those entities to group Own investment decisions pertaining to these assets are also made by the Funds is included as an asset on the groups Solvency II balance sheet.
These are different from Assets under Management AUM Regulatory approval has been provided to recognise the re insurance defined below.
subsidiaries of LGI US on this basis.
Annual premium Defined benefit pension scheme DB scheme Premiums that are paid regularly over the duration of the contract such A type of pension plan in which an employer sponsor promises a as protection policies.
specified monthly benefit on retirement that is predetermined by a Annual premium equivalent APE formula based on the employees earnings history, tenure of service and A standardised measure of the volume of new life insurance business age, rather than depending directly on individual investment returns.
It is calculated as the sum of annualised new recurring Defined contribution pension scheme DC scheme premiums and 10% of the new single premiums written in an annual A type of pension plan where the pension benefits at retirement are reporting period.
determined by agreed levels of contributions paid into the fund by the Annuity member and employer.
They provide benefits based upon the money Regular payments from an insurance company made for an agreed held in each individuals plan specifically on behalf of each member.
period of time usually up to the death of the recipient in return for Theamount in each plan at retirement will depend upon the investment either cash lump sum or a series of premiums which the policyholder returns achieved and on the member and employer contributions.
has paid to the insurance company during their working lifetime.
Derivatives Assets under administration AUA Derivatives are not a separate asset class, but are contracts usually Assets administered by the group which are beneficially owned by giving a commitment or right to buy or sell assets on specified clients and are, therefore, not reported on the Consolidated Balance conditions, for example on a set date in the future and at a set price.
Services provided in respect of assets under administration are Thevalue of a derivative contract can vary.
Derivatives can generally of an administrative nature, including safekeeping, collecting investment be used with the aim of enhancing the overall investment returns of income, settling purchase and sales transactions and record keeping.
a fund by taking on an increased risk, or they can be used with the aim of reducing the amount of risk to which a fund is exposed.
Assets under management AUM Refer to the alternative performance measures section.
Direct investments Direct investments, which generally constitute an agreement with Back book acquisition another party and represent an exposure to untraded and often less New business transacted with an insurance company which allows volatile asset classes.
Direct investments also include physical assets, the business to continue to utilise Solvency II transitional measures bilateral loans and private equity, but exclude hedge funds.
Dividend cover Bundled DC solution Dividend cover measures how many times over the net release Where investment and administration services are provided to a from operations in the year could have paid the full year dividend.
scheme by the same service provider.
Typically, all investment and For example, if the dividend cover is 3, this means that the net release administration costs are passed onto the scheme members.
from operations was three times the amount of dividend paid out.
Bundled pension schemes Where the fund manager bundles together the investment provider role and third-party administrator role, together with the role of selecting funds and providing investment education, into one proposition.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate Combined operating ratio COR The COR is a measure of the underwriting profitability of the general insurance business.
It is calculated as the sum of the net incurred claims, expenses and net commission, divided by the net earned premium for the period.
These items represent an alternative performance measure APM Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 241 Other information Earnings per share EPS Index tracker passive fund EPS is a common financial metric which can be used to measure Index tracker funds invest in most or all of the same shares, and in the profitability and strength of a company over time.
It is the total a similar proportion, as the index they are tracking, for example the shareholder profit after tax divided by the number of shares FTSE 100 index.
Index tracker funds aim to produce a return in line outstanding.
EPS uses a weighted average number of shares with a particular market or sector, for example, Europe or technology.
They are also sometimes known as tracker funds.
Eligible Own Funds International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Eligible Own Funds represents the capital available to cover the groups These are accounting guidelines and rules that companies and Solvency II Capital Requirement.
Eligible Own Funds comprise the organisations follow when completing financial statements.
They are excess of the value of assets over liabilities, as valued on a Solvency II designed to enable comparable reporting between companies, and they basis, plus high quality hybrid capital instruments, which are freely are the standards that all publicly listed groups in the European Union available fungible and transferable to absorb losses wherever they EU are required to use.
Eligible Own Funds shareholder view basis Key performance indicators KPIs excludes the contribution to the groups solvency capital requirement These are measures by which the development, performance or of with-profits fund and final salary pension schemes.
position of the business can be measured effectively.
The Group Board Employee engagement index reviews the KPIs annually and updates them where appropriate.
The Employee engagement index measures the extent to which LGA employees are committed to the goals of Legal & General and are Legal & General America.
motivated to contribute to the overall success of the company, whilst working with their manager to enhance their own sense of development LGAS and wellbeing.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited.
ETF LGC LGIMs European Exchange Traded Fund platform.
Euro Commercial paper LGI Short term borrowings with maturities of up to one year typically issued Legal & General Insurance.
LGI new business FVTPL New business arising from new policies written on retail protection Fair value through profit or loss.
A financial asset or financial liability products and new deals and incremental business on group that is measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet reports protection products.
gains and losses arising from movements in fair value within the LGIA Consolidated Income Statement as part of the profit or loss for the year.
Full year dividend LGIM Full year dividend is the total dividend per share declared for the year Legal & General Investment Management.
including interim dividend but excluding, where appropriate, any specialdividend.
LGR Legal & General Retirement, which includes Legal & General Retirement Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP Institutional LGRI and Legal & General Retirement Retail LGRR.
These are a widely accepted collection of guidelines and principles, established by accounting standard setters and used by the accounting LGR new business community to report financial information.
Single premiums arising from annuity sales and back book acquisitions including individual annuity and pension risk transfer, the volume of Gross written premiums GWP lifetime mortgage lending and the notional size of longevity insurance GWP is an industry measure of the life insurance premiums due and transactions, based on the present value of the fixed leg cash flows the general insurance premiums underwritten in the reporting period, discounted at the LIBOR curve.
before any deductions for reinsurance.
Group adjusted operating profit Refer to the alternative performance measures section.
ICAV Irish Collective Asset-Management Vehicle A legal structure investment funds, based in Ireland and aimed at European investment funds looking for a simple, tax-efficient investment vehicle.
These items represent an alternative performance measure APM 242 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other information Glossary Liability driven investment LDI Pension risk transfer PRT A form of investing in which the main goal is to gain sufficient assets to PRT represents bulk annuities bought by entities that run final salary meet all liabilities, both current and future.
This form of investing is most pension schemes to reduce their responsibilities by closing the prominent in final salary pension plans, whose liabilities can often reach schemes to new members and passing the assets and obligations into billions of pounds for the largest of plans.
Lifetime mortgages Platform An equity release product aimed at people aged 60 years and over.
Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view and It is a mortgage loan secured against the customers house.
Customers administer their investment portfolios.
Platforms usually provide donot make any monthly payments and continue to own and live in facilities for buying and selling investments including, in the UK, their house until they move into long-term care or on death.
A no products such as Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested negative equity guarantee exists such that if the house value on Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance and for viewing an repayment is insufficient to cover the outstanding loan, any shortfall individuals entire portfolio to assess asset allocation and risk exposure.
Present value of future new business premiums PVNBP Matching adjustment PVNBP is equivalent to total single premiums plus the discounted An adjustment to the discount rate used for annuity liabilities in value of annual premiums expected to be received over the term of Solvency II balance sheets.
This adjustment reflects the fact that the the contracts using the same economic and operating assumptions profile of assets held is sufficiently well-matched to the profile of the used for the new business value at the end of the financial period.
liabilities, that those assets can be held to maturity, and that any excess The discounted value of longevity insurance regular premiums and return over risk-free that is not related to defaults can be earned quota share reinsurance single premiums are calculated on a net of regardless of asset value fluctuations after purchase.
reinsurance basis to enable a more representative margin figure.
PVNBP, therefore, provides an estimate of the present value of the Mortality rate premiums associated with new business written in the year.
Rate of death, influenced by age, gender and health, used in pricing and calculating liabilities for future policyholders of life and annuity products, Purchased interest in long-term business PILTB which contain mortality risks.
An estimate of the future profits that will emerge over the remaining term of life and pensions policies that have been acquired via a Net release from operations businesscombination.
Real assets New business surplus strain Real assets encompass a wide variety of tangible debt and equity The net impact of writing new business on the IFRS position, including investments, primarily real estate, infrastructure and energy.
They have the benefit cost of acquiring new business and the setting up of the ability to serve as stable sources of long term income in weak reserves, for UK non profit annuities, workplace savings, protection and markets, while also providing capital appreciation opportunities in savings, net of tax.
This metric provides an understanding of the impact strong markets.
of new contracts on the IFRS profit for the year.
Release from operations Open architecture The expected release of IFRS surplus from in-force business for the Where a company offers investment products from a range of other UK non-profit Insurance and Savings and LGR businesses, the companies in addition to its own products.
This gives customers a wider shareholders share of bonuses on with-profits business, the post-tax choice of funds to invest in and access to a larger pool of money operating profit on other UK businesses, including the medium-term management professionals.
expected investment return on LGC invested assets, and dividends Overlay assets remitted from LGA.
Release from operations was previously referred Overlay assets are derivative assets that are managed alongside the to as operational cash generation.
physical assets held by LGIM.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, ination swaps, equity futures and options.
These are typically used to hedge risks associated with pension scheme assets during the derisking stage of the pension life cycle.
These items represent an alternative performance measure APM Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 243 Other information Return on Equity ROE Solvency II surplus Refer to the alternative performance measures section.
The excess of Eligible Own Funds on a regulatory basis over the Solvency Capital Requirement.
This represents the amount of capital Risk appetite available to the company in excess of that required to sustain it in a The aggregate level and types of risk a company is willing to assume 1-in-200 year risk event.
inits exposures and business activities in order to achieve its businessobjectives.
Solvency Capital Requirement SCR The amount of Solvency II capital required to cover the losses occurring Single premiums in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Single premiums arise on the sale of new contracts where the terms of the policy do not anticipate more than one premium being paid over Total shareholder return TSR its lifetime, such as in individual and bulk annuity deals.
TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share Solvency II price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to Taking effect from 1 January 2016, the Solvency II regulatory regime is the shareholder.
a harmonised prudential framework for insurance firms in the EEA.
This single market approach is based on economic principles that measure Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions TMTP assets and liabilities to appropriately align insurers risk with the capital This is an adjustment to Solvency II technical provisions to bring them they hold to safeguard the policyholders interest.
into line with the pre-Solvency II equivalent as at 1January 2016 when the regulatory basis switched over, to smooth the introduction of the Solvency II capital coverage ratio new regime.
This will decrease linearly over the 16 years following The Eligible Own Funds on a regulatory basis divided by the group Solvency II implementation but may be recalculated to allow for Solvency Capital Requirement.
This represents the number of times changes impacting the relevant business, subject to agreement the SCR is covered by Eligible Own Funds.
Solvency II capital coverage ratio proforma basis Unbundled DC solution The proforma basis Solvency II SCR coverage ratio incorporates the When investment services and administration services are supplied impacts of a recalculation of the Transitional Measures for Technical by separate providers.
Typically, the sponsoring employer will cover Provisions and the contribution of with-profits funds and our defined administration costs and scheme members the investment costs.
benefit pension schemes in both Own Funds and the SCR in the calculation of the SCR coverage ratio.
With-profits funds Individually identifiable portfolios where policyholders have a Solvency II capital coverage ratio shareholder view basis contractual right to receive additional benefits based on factors such In order to represent a shareholder view of group solvency position, as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a the contribution of with-profits funds and our defined benefit pension supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
An insurer may either have schemes is excluded from both the groups Own Funds and the groups discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those benefits to solvency capital requirement, by the amount of their respective participating policyholders or may have discretion as to the timing solvency capital requirements, in the calculation of the SCR coverage and the amount of the additional benefits.
This incorporates the impacts of a recalculation of the Transitional Measures for Technical Provisions based on end of period economic Yield conditions.
The shareholder view basis does not reflect the regulatory A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the capital position as at 31 December 2018.
This will be submitted to the price paid for the investment.
It is usually expressed as a percentage.
Solvency II new business contribution Reflects present value at the point of sale of expected future Solvency II surplus emerging from new business written in the period using the risk discount rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
Solvency II Risk Margin An additional liability required in the Solvency II balance sheet, to ensure the total value of technical provisions is equal to the current amount a re insurer would have to pay if it were to transfer its insurance and reinsurance obligations immediately to another re insurer.
The value of the risk margin represents the cost of providing an amount of Eligible Own Funds equal to the Solvency Capital Requirement relating to non-market risks necessary to support the insurance and reinsurance obligations over the lifetime thereof.
These items represent an alternative performance measure APM 244 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA T 020 3124 2000 F 020 3124 2500 legalandgeneralgroup.
com Legal & General Group Plc is a holding company, subsidiary undertakings of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and or Prudential Regulation Authority, as appropriate.
Designed by Superunion Printed on Amadeus Primo Silk and UPM Fine Offset papers.
Both papers are independently certified according to the rules of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC.
Both manufacturing mills hold the ISO 14001 environmental certification and the EU Eco label EMAS.
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
