Financial Statements Group consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements The group consolidated financial statements are divided into three sections: The Primary statements and performance section, which includes the group primary statements and other notes which we believe areintegral to understanding our financial performance.
The Balance sheet management section, which provides further details on our financial position and approach to risk management.
The Additional financial information section, which includes disclosures required to be compliant with accounting standards or the CompaniesAct.
We view this information as important, but less significant in understanding our business and performance.
Contents Group consolidated financial statements Additional financial information Independent auditors report to the members 28.
Segmental analysis 196 of Legal & General Group Plc 105 29.
Tax 201 Primary statements and performance 31.
Auditors remuneration 205 Consolidated Income Statement 112 32.
Employee information 206 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 33.
Share-based payments 206 Consolidated Balance Sheet 114 34.
Share capital, share premium and employee Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 115 scheme treasury shares 208 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 117 35.
Reconciliation of Assets under management to 3.
Other expenses 129 Consolidated Balance Sheet financial investments, 4.
Dividends 129 investment property and cash and cash equivalents 210 5.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 211 Balance sheet management 40.
P urchased interest in long term businesses 44.
Interests in structured entities 225 PILTB and other intangible assets 140 10.
Deferred acquisition costs 142 Company financial statements 227 11.
Financial investments and investment property 143 12.
Long term insurance valuation assumptions 168 19.
Payables and other financial liabilities 191 25.
Held for sale and discontinued operations 195 104 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Group consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Legal & General Group Plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Legal & General Group Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise theConsolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement ofChanges in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company Balance Sheet, Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 andofthe Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by theEuropean Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 ReducedDisclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financialstatements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 17 May 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the one financial yearended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UKethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview 92.5m Materiality: group financial statements as a whole 4.1% of normalised profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage 91% of group profit before tax Key audit matters Event driven The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Valuation of non-participating insurance contract liabilities Recurring risks Valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments Parent company risk: Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Legal & General Group Plc continued 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Brexit Refer to page 48 principal risks, page 47 viability statement, page 68 Audit Committee Report.
The risk Our response Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the consideration of the All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, in particular uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
Our asdescribed in Valuation of insurance contract liabilities and Valuation of procedures included: hardto value Level 3 investments below, and related disclosures and the Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the directors assessment of  of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial resources compared statements.
All of these depend on assessments of the future economic with our own understanding of the risks.
We considered the directors plans to environment and the Groups future prospects and performance.
take action to mitigate the risks: In addition, we are required to consider the other information presented in the Sensitivity analysis: When addressing Valuation of insurance contract liabilities Annual Report including the principal risks disclosure and the viability statement and Valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments below and other areas that and to consider the directors statement that the annual report and financial depend on forecasts, we compared the directors analysis to our assessment of statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the full range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and and, where forecast cash flows are required to be discounted, considered performance, business model and strategy.
adjustments to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty: and Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK and at the date Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual disclosures as part of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of of our procedures on Valuation of insurance contract liabilities and Valuation outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown.
of hardto value Level 3 investments below we considered all of the Brexit relateddisclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overallpicture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results As reported under Valuation of insurance contract liabilities and Valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments below we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of these matters and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly thecase in relation to Brexit.
106 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Group consolidated financial statements Valuation of non-participating insurance contract liabilities Annuity liabilities within non-participating insurance contract liabilities of 64,707 million: 2017: 61,308 million Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, page 123 accounting policy and page 176 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: The valuation of non-participating insurance contract liabilities is an Control design: testing controls over the quarterly review and approval of inherently subjective area, requiring management judgement in the centralassumptions adopted over the valuation of annuity liabilities, and settingof key assumptions.
In particular there is a significant level of reconciliation controls to ensure completeness and accuracy of data used in both judgement required in determining liabilities associated with the annuity  that informs the assumption setting process and the business.
Theannuity business consists of individual annuities and bulk data flows from policyadministration systems to the actuarial valuation models.
A small change in assumptions Methodology choice: using actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness canhave a significant impact on the liabilities.
ofthe methodology for selecting assumptions by applying our understanding of The longevity and credit risk assumptions involve the greatest level developments in the business and expectations derived from market experience.
Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience: assessing mortality Longevity assumptions improvement assumptions against industry data on expected future mortality rate improvements and industry historic mortality improvement rates: and assessing Longevity assumptions have two main components which include mortality base assumptions and the rate of mortality improvements.
Certain of these theappropriateness of the credit risk assumptions by comparing to industry practiceandour expectations derived from market experience.
assumptions are tailored to individual bulk annuity schemes.
Changing trends inlongevity and emerging medical trends means there is a high level of Historical comparisons: evaluating the mortality base assumptions used in the uncertainty in the assumptions.
valuation of the annuity liabilities by comparing to the Groups historic mortality experience, and assessing the credit default assumptions by comparing to the Credit assumptions historical performance of the asset portfolio.
The valuation discount rate is derived from the yield on the assets backing the annuity liabilities.
In setting the valuation discount rate, an explicit allowance for Test of detail: testing the completeness of data used in the valuation of annuity liabilities by reconciling the data from the policy administration system to the data credit risk is included by making a deduction, representing part of the yield on debt and other fixed income securities.
The assumptions surrounding this used in the actuarial models.
deduction require significant judgement and there is a risk that changes in Independent re-performance: using our own valuation models to estimate the investment yields, market spreads, current actual default experience and annuity liability for a sample of policies and comparing to the balances estimated anticipated trends are not appropriately reflected.
bythe Group to assess the accuracy of the calculations performed by the actuarial models, in particular whether they were in line with internally approved Estimation uncertainty methodologies and assumptions.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of insurance contract liabilities has a high degree Assessing transparency: assessing whether the disclosures in relation to thevaluation of non-participating insurance contract liabilities are compliant of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many withtherelevant financial reporting requirements.
The financial statements Note 19 disclose the sensitivity Our results estimated by the Group.
We found the resulting estimate of the valuation of insurance contract liabilities to be acceptable.
Calculation error and data capture: Management uses actuarial models to calculate policyholder liabilities.
Thereisa risk that incomplete data is used in the calculation because data doesnot transfer appropriately from the policyholder system to the actuarial models.
There is also a risk that unauthorised or erroneous changes to the models mayoccur.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Legal & General Group Plc continued Valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments Lifetime mortgages: 3,227 million: Private credit: 8,001 million: 2017: Lifetime mortgages: 2,023 million: Private credit: 6,265 million Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, page 123 accounting policy and page 149 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Subjective valuation: Lifetime mortgages 5% of the investment portfolio is classified as Level 3 assets, of which we Our procedures included: consider the valuation of lifetime mortgages and private credit involve the Control design: testing controls over the review and approval of assumptions greatest level of subjectivity.
used in the valuation of lifetime mortgages.
Lifetime mortgages Our valuation expertise: using valuation specialists to challenge the valuation The loans are measured at fair value determined through projecting future methodology adopted for suitability and appropriate application.
discounted cash flows using internally developed models.
There is significant Benchmarking assumptions and historic comparisons: using specialists judgement involved in setting the assumptions that drive the valuation.
incomparing: property price inflation to market data and industry practice: The key assumptions include property price inflation, property price volatility, property price volatility to industry benchmarks: mortality assumptions to the mortality determined by reference to the Groups own experience and Groups mortality experience analysis: and the liquidity premium applied to the expected levels of future mortality and the illiquidity premium added to risk-free rate to industry practice and our expectations from market experience.
Independent re-performance: using our own valuation models to value the loans secured by residential mortgages balance for a sample of policies and A small change in these assumptions can have a significant impact on comparing to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: assessing whether the disclosures in relation to Private credit thevaluation of lifetime mortgage investments are compliant with the relevant Given the limited nature of the secondary market for private credit, an financial reporting requirements and appropriately present the sensitivities inherentmispricing risk exists for these investments owing to a lack of price ofthe valuation to alternative assumptions.
transparency in the market, and the adoption of assumptions which require Private credit significant judgement in mark-to-model valuations.
Our procedures included: The fair value of private credit investments is based on an internally generated Control design, observation, and operation: testing key controls over credit rating which is derived from the application of suitable credit rating theapproval and monitoring of credit ratings, including the Companys Credit models.
This credit rating in turn forms the basis of identifying comparator Committee, and controls designed to assure the completeness and accuracy securities.
The selection of a suitable model, the inputs into the model and ofinformation presented to the Committee: and the approval of comparator theselection of comparator securities require management judgement.
securities by the Companys external expert, IHS Markit.
Inappropriate judgements can lead to a material misstatement in the valuationof private credit investments.
Assessing valuers credentials: assessing the independence and competence of IHS Markit, and obtaining evidence of IHS Markits approval Estimation uncertainty ofcomparator securities for a sample of private credit investments.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we Our valuation expertise: using valuation specialists to challenge the determined that the valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments has a high suitabilityofthe valuation methodology adopted and assess its application.
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomesgreater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, Independent re-performance: with assistance of valuation specialists, and possiblymany times that amount.
The financial statements Note 11 weindependently assessed comparator securities and re-priced a sample disclosethe sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: assessing whether the disclosures in relation tothevaluation of private credit investments are compliant with the relevant financial reporting requirements and appropriately present the sensitivities ofthe valuation to alternative assumptions.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the valuation of hard to value Level 3 investments to be acceptable.
Parent company risk: Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries 8,465 million: 2017: 7,717 million Refer to page 230 accounting policy and page 232 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in subsidiaries Independent re-performance: comparing the carrying amount of a represents 79% of the companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not sampleofthe highest value investments, with the relevant subsidiaries atahigh risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
financial information to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent company of theirminimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount financialstatements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest andassessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
effect onouroverall parent company audit.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment insubsidiaries to be acceptable.
108 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Group consolidated financial statements 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 92.5 million, determined by reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from PBTCO Group Materiality continuing operations PBTCO, normalised to exclude this years normalised 2,256m Whole financial statements investment and other variances and gains on non-controlling interests as materiality 92.5m disclosed in Note 2 of the financial statements, of which it represents 4.1%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 46.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets and chosen to be lower than materiality for the group financial statements as a whole.
It represents 0.4% of the stated benchmark.
72.0m Range of materiality at We consider total assets to be the most appropriate benchmark as the 19 components 9m-72m Company principally holds investments in other entities.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 4.6m identified misstatements exceeding 4.6 million, in addition to other Misstatements reported identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
PBTCO to the audit committee Materiality In addition, we applied materiality of 3.8 billion to the classification of unit-linked assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and related notes, determined with reference to a benchmark of total unit-linked investment contracts, of which it represents 1.1%.
This materiality was applied solely for our work on matters for which a 0% 0.5% misstatement is likely only to lead to a reclassification between line items within assets and liabilities, in accordance with FRC Practice 94% 91% Note 20 The Audit of Insurers in the United Kingdom.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or 94.4% 90.9% uncorrected classification misstatements in unit-linked assets and liabilities exceeding190 million.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Of the Groups 19 reporting components, we subjected 18 to full scope audits for group purposes and one to specified risk-focused audit procedures over financial investments and investment return.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope 0.8% audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
92% The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated to the right.
For the residual components, Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 90.9% we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 our assessment that there were no significant risks of material Residual components misstatement within these.
Group total assets The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 9 million to 72 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 15 of the 19 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
The Group team visited 17 component locations in the United Kingdom and the United States to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, thefindings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed bythe component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Grouportocease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
 that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a goingconcernfor atleast ayear from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events mayresult in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model, including the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over thegoing concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded that they were not significant enough to require us to perform additional auditprocedures.
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Legal & General Group Plc continued Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement on page 237 to the financial statements on the use ofthegoing concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use ofthatbasis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 235 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Group Board viability statement on page 47 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Group Board viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Group Board viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us totheAudit Committee: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company We are required to report to you if the Governance report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of  Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Based solely on our work on the other information described above: with respect to the Governance report disclosures about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processesand about share capital structures: we have not identified material misstatements therein: and the information therein is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, the Governance report has been prepared in accordance with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rulesofthe Financial Conduct Authority.
110 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Group consolidated financial statements 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branchesnot visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with theaccounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 236, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably beexpected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group team to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at the group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation, and pension legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: Listing Rules and regulatory capital and liquidity recognising the financial and regulated nature of certain of the Groups activities and certain regulated subsidiaries.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override ofinternal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws andregulations.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Rees Aronson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants KPMG LLP 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 5th March 2019 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111
