288 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Abbreviations ADRs American Depositary Receipts IAS International Accounting Standard BSU Business Support Unit IASB International Accounting Standards Board CDS Credit Default Swap ICG Individual Capital Guidance CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard CRD IV Capital Requirements Directive IV LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio CVA Credit Valuation Adjustment LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate DVA Debit Valuation Adjustment LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan EBA European Banking Authority OEIC Open Ended Investment Company ECN Enhanced Capital Note PFI Private Finance Initiative EP Economic Profit PPI Payment Protection Insurance EPS Earnings Per Share PPP Public Private Partnership FCA Financial Conduct Authority PRA Prudential Regulation Authority FLS Funding for Lending Scheme PVNBP Present Value of New Business Premiums FRC Financial Reporting Council SEC Securities and Exchange Commission GSR3 Group Strategic Review TSR Total Shareholder Return HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs VaR Value-at-Risk Alternative performance measures As described on page 43, the Group analyses its performance on an underlying basis.
The Group also calculates a number of metrics that are used throughout the banking and insurance industries on an underlying basis as these provide management with a relevant and consistent view of these measures from period to period.
A description of the Groups alternative performance measures and their calculation is set out below.
Asset quality ratio The underlying impairment charge for the period on an annualised basis in respect of loans and advances to customers after releases and write-backs, expressed as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers for the period.
Banking net interest margin Banking net interest income on customer and product balances in the banking businesses as a percentage of average banking gross interest-earning assets for the period.
Business as usual costs Operating costs, less investment expensed and depreciation.
Cost:income ratio Total costs as a percentage of net income calculated on an underlying basis.
Gross asset quality ratio The underlying impairment charge for the period on an annualised basis in respect of loans and advances to customers before releases and write-backs, expressed as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers for the period.
Impaired loans as a percentage of Impaired loans and advances to customers adjusted to exclude Retail and Consumer Finance loans in recoveries, expressed closingadvances as a percentage of closing gross loans and advances to customers.
Loan to deposit ratio Loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements divided by customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Jaws The difference between the period on period percentage change in net income and the period on period change in operating costs calculated on an underlying basis.
Present value of new business premium The total single premium sales received in the period on an annualised basis plus the discounted value of premiums expected to be received over the term of the new regular premium contracts.
Return on risk-weighted assets Underlying profit before tax divided by average risk-weighted assets.
Return on tangible equity Statutory profit after tax adjusted to add back amortisation of intangible assets, and to deduct profit attributable to non-controlling interests and other equity holders, divided by average tangible net assets.
Tangible net assets per share Net assets excluding intangible assets such as goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Underlying, or above the line, profit Statutory profit adjusted for certain items as detailed on page 43.
Underlying return on tangible equity Underlying profit after tax at the standard UK corporation tax rate adjusted to add back amortisation of intangible assets and to deduct profit attributable to non-controlling interests and other equity holders, divided by average tangible net assets.
