284 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information Annual general meeting AGM The AGM will be held at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Edinburgh EH3 8EE on Thursday 16 May 2019 at 11am.
Furtherdetails about the meeting, including the proposed resolutions and where shareholders can stream the meeting live, can be found in our Notice of AGM which will be available shortly on our website at www.
com Reports and communications The Group issues regulatory announcements through the Regulatory News Service RNS : shareholders can subscribe for free via the Investors & Performance section of our website at www.
com, where our statutory reports and shareholder communications are available.
Asummary of the scheduled reports and communications to be issued in 2019 is set out below: Available format Report Communication Month Online Email RNS Paper Preliminary results and publication of Annual Report and Accounts Feb Pillar 3 report Feb Aug Group Chief Executive update to shareholders Mar Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts, Annual Review or PerformanceSummary Mar Notice of AGM and voting materials Mar 1 Q1 interim management statement Apr 2 Country analysis Jun Jul Interim results Jul Group Chief Executive update to shareholders Aug 1 Q3 interim management statement Oct 1 There is no longer a requirement to issue interim management statements and though we will continue to issue them going forward they will be much shorter.
2 To be published on the Groups website by 1July2019 in accordance with the Capital Requirements country analysis Regulations 2013.
Share dealing facilities We offer a choice of three share dealing services for our UK shareholders and customers.
To see the full range of services available for each, please use the contact details below: Service Provider Telephone Dealing Internet Dealing Bank of Scotland Share Dealing 0345 606 1188 www.
co. uk sharedealing Halifax Share Dealing 03457 22 55 25 www.
co. uk sharedealing Lloyds Bank Direct Investments 0345 60 60 560 www.
asp Note: All internet services are available 24 7.
Telephone dealing services are available between 8.00 am and 9.15 pm, Monday to Friday and 9.00 am to 1.00 pm on Saturday.
To open a share dealing account with any of these services, you must be 18 years of age or over and be resident in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey or the Isle of Man.
Share dealing for the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account Share dealing services for the Lloyds Banking Group Shareholder Account are provided by Equiniti Shareview Dealing, operated by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
Details of the services provided can be found either on the Shareholder Information page of our website at www.
com or by contacting Equiniti using the contact details provided on the next page.
Share price information Shareholders can access both the latest and historical share prices via our website at www.
com as well as listings in most national newspapers.
For a real time buying or selling price, you will need to contact a stockbroker, or you can contact the share dealing providers detailedabove.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs There are a number of options for investing in Lloyds Banking Group shares through an ISA.
For details of services and products provided by the Group please contact Bank of Scotland Share Dealing, Halifax Share Dealing or Lloyds Bank Direct Investments using the contact detailsabove.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 285 American Depositary Receipts ADRs Our shares are traded in the USA through a New York Stock Exchange-listed sponsored ADR facility with The Bank of New York Mellon as the depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol LYG.
The CUSIP number is 539439109 and the ratio of ADRs to ordinary shares is1:4.
For details contact: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, 462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600, Louisville KY 40202.
If it sounds too good to be true, it usually is and we would ask that shareholders take steps to protect themselves.
We strongly recommend seeking advice from an independent financial adviser authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Shareholders can verify whether a firm is authorised via the Financial Services Register which is available at www.
uk If a shareholder is concerned that they may have been targeted by such a scheme, please contact the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or use the online Share Fraud Reporting Form available from their website see above.
We would also recommend contacting the Police through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or visiting www.
Important shareholder and registrar information Company website Register today to manage your www.
com shareholding online Get online in just three easy steps: Shareholder information help.
co. uk step 1 from here you will be able to email your Register at www.
co. uk info register query securely step 2 Registrar Receive activation code in post Equiniti Limited step 3 Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Log on Shareholder helpline 0371 384 2990 from within the UK 44 121 415 7066 from outside the UK Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday, excluding English and Welsh public holidays.
The company registrar is Equiniti Limited.
They provide ashareholder service, including a telephone helpline andshareview which is a free secure portfolio service.
