Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic financial year.
The Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 257.
In particular, the current statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 48.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements The Financial Risk Management objectives and policies of the Group and the unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that year.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Groups cash resources and available credit facilities.
The combined total of committed facilities and bonds issued at 31 December 2018 was 3,103 million select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting 2017: 2,638 million, with first maturing due in October 2019, described further Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them in the Financial Review on pages 4147. consistently present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after make judgements and estimates that are reasonable making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
on the Group and the Companys financial position and financial performance Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 5961 of state whether the Group and the Company financial statements have this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in the financial statements: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is Group taken as a whole: inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the preparing the financial statements.
principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2018, taken as a whole, is The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for sufficient to show and explain the Group and the Companys transactions and shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys performance, business disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the model and strategy Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies By Order of the Board Act 2006, other applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate 1 March 2019 and financial information on the Companys website.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 105 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and In our opinion: viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual London Stock Exchange Group plcs the Company, the Group consolidated report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial have anything material to add or draw attention to: statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 4857 that describe the the year then ended: principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the directors confirmation set out on page 104 in the Annual Report that they International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, Union EU : including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the the directors statement set out on page 105 in the financial statements about provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the We have audited the financial statements of London Stock Exchange Group plc Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent which comprise: with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Group Parent company the directors explanation set out on page 104 in the Annual Report as to how Consolidated balance sheet as Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done at 31 December 2018 so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as Consolidated income statement Statement of changes in equity for the to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to for the year then ended year then ended continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of Consolidated statement of Statement of cash flows for the year their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any comprehensive income for the then ended necessary qualifications or assumptions.
year then ended Consolidated statement of Related Notes 1 to 38 to the financial Overview of our audit approach changes in equity for the year statements including a summary of then ended significant accounting policies Key audit matters Risk that goodwill and purchased intangible assets may be impaired Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Risk that expenses related to internally developed software are capitalised inappropriately, or that Related Notes 1 to 38 to the financial internally developed software is impaired statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in secondary capital markets trading, revenue share for clearing Tables within the Directors arrangements, and information services revenue accruals Remuneration Report identified as audited on pages 86100 Application of IFRS 15 to primary capital markets admission fees Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is information of 7 components and audit procedures on applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent specific balances for a further 14 components company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the The components where we performed full or specific Companies Act 2006. audit procedures accounted for 95% of unadjusted pre-tax profit, 95% of adjusted pre-tax profit, 97% of revenue and 100% of total assets Basis for opinion Materiality Overall Group materiality is 35.5m which represents We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from continuing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are operations, calculated by including the impact of further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial the amortisation of purchased intangible assets, but excluding other non-underlying items as disclosed statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent in Note 8 of the financial statements company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
106 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Independent Auditors Report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk that goodwill and purchased We have confirmed our understanding of the impairment assessment We concluded that the WACC discount rates, intangible assets may be impaired process and assessed the design effectiveness of key controls, LTGR, customer retention rates and cash flow concluding that a substantive audit approach should be adopted.
forecasts used by management in the Balance of 4.2 billion, prior year For material cash generating units CGU, we examined the cash flow impairment assessment are within a reasonable comparative 4.2 billion forecasts which support managements impairment assessment and range as at 31 December 2018. tested compliance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of The Group holds significant intangible Assets.
We assessed the reasonableness of those forecasts and the We did not identify any additional factors that assets on its balance sheet, including evidence supporting the underlying assumptions, by comparing to would lead to a revision of the amortisation goodwill, customer relationships, Board-approved budgets, considering prior periods budget accuracy, periods applied for purchased intangible assets.
brands, software licenses, and comparing the expected growth rates to relevant market We concluded that the carrying value of goodwill intellectual property.
expectations, and considering recent market developments including and purchased intangible assets is fairly stated changes in tax rates.
We have determined the valuation of these intangible assets to be a key In respect of purchased intangible assets, we tested managements audit matter due to the size of the assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist as at the goodwill and purchased intangible balance sheet date, by reference to factors specific to each class of assets as at 31 December 2018 and assets.
Examples included customer retention rates within specific the involvement of significant business lines and the current returns made on intellectual property.
judgement by management in We tested the weighted-average cost of capital WACC discount rates determining the valuation of the assigned to each of the CGUs, as well as the long-term growth rates intangible assets.
LTGR, with reference to our understanding of the business, comparisons to other similar companies and broader market On an annual basis, management are considerations.
required to perform an impairment assessment for goodwill, and to The WACC discount rates and LTGR applied within each impairment assess for indicators of impairment model were critically assessed by EY valuation specialists, including in respect of purchased intangible comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate.
Where indicators of We considered evidence available to support the WACC discount rates impairment of purchased intangible and LTGR used, and assessed consistency with findings from other assets are identified, a full areas of the audit.
Using EY valuation specialists, we assessed specific impairment assessment is performed.
inputs in the determination of the WACC discount rates, including the These assessments involve significant risk-free rate, equity beta and market size premium, along with management judgement in the gearing and cost of debt.
We benchmarked the inputs against application of valuation models and observed risk rates in the markets where the Group operates.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the cash flow forecasts and other key inputs to the impairment model including WACC discount As a consequence, there is a greater rates, LTGR and customer retention rates, to understand the impact risk of misstatement in these that reasonably possible changes to key assumptions would have on balances, either by fraud or error, the overall carrying value of the goodwill and purchased intangible including through the potential assets at the balance sheet date.
override of controls by management.
We performed recalculations of the amortisation of purchased Refer to the Report of the Audit intangible assets, and assessed that the amortisation policy had Committee page 78 : Accounting been appropriately applied.
We also assessed the appropriateness of policies page 126 : and Notes 4 the remaining amortisation period by comparing managements and 15 of the Financial Statements forecasts against historic data.
pages 138 and 146148 In addition to the above procedures, we performed overall analytical The risk has neither increased nor procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the decreased in the current year.
risk of misstatement arising from management override of controls.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 8 components, which covered 99.8% of the risk amount.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 107 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk that expenses related to We confirmed our understanding of the capitalisation and We concluded that the assessment performed internally developed software are impairment assessment processes and assessed the design and by management met the capitalisation criteria capitalised inappropriately, or operating effectiveness of key controls.
We concluded that the set out in IFRS as adopted by the EU.
that internally developed controls were designed, implemented and operating effectively, and software is impaired therefore took a controls-reliance approach.
We concluded that the WACC discount rates, LTGR, and cash flow forecasts used by Balance of 0.5 billion, prior year For a sample of additions we have agreed amounts capitalised to management in the impairment assessment are comparative 0.3 billion underlying documentation, including, as appropriate, timesheets, within a reasonable range as at 31 December invoices and other evidence to confirm that the costs were incurred, 2018, where applicable.
The capitalisation of expenses to and meet the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
internally developed software involves We did not identify indicators of impairment for managements judgement, when For a sample of assets not yet brought into use we have inspected internally developed software which had not making their assessment of managements impairment assessment and tested the key already been impaired by management.
capitalisation against criteria set out in assumptions used within the assessment, such as the WACC discount IFRS as adopted by the EU.
rates, LTGR and cash flow forecasts where applicable.
We have also We did not identify any additional factors that gained an understanding of the status of related projects and would lead to a revision of the remaining useful The Group is required to review reviewed project progress reports for potential indicators of lives applied for internally developed software.
capitalised software assets for impairment.
We concluded that the carrying value of impairment whenever events or internally developed software is fairly stated as changes in circumstances indicate that We also performed sensitivity analysis on the cash flow forecasts and at 31 December 2018. their carrying amounts may not be other key inputs to the impairment model including WACC discount recoverable, and at least annually, rates and LTGR, to understand the impact that reasonably possible review whether there is any change in changes to key assumptions would have on the overall carrying value their expected useful lives.
of the internally generated software at the balance sheet date.
Where indicators of impairment are We have assessed the appropriateness of the amortisation period identified or where an asset has not based on economic lives and managements best estimates of future been brought into use, a full performance, amortisation method and residual values.
impairment assessment is performed at the reporting date.
Such We have, in addition, performed overall analytical procedures and assessments involve management journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of judgement in the application of misstatement arising from management override of controls.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 9 components, which covered 94.2% of the risk amount.
In addition, as internally generated assets move closer to the end of their useful life, the risk of impairment may increase.
As a consequence, there is a greater risk of misstatement in this balance, either by fraud or error, including through the potential override of controls by management.
Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page 78 : Accounting policies page 126 : and Note 15 of the Financial Statements pages 146148 The risk has increased in the current year as the activity of the Group in relation to Internally developed software has expanded significantly.
108 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Independent Auditors Report Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk of fraud in recognition of We confirmed our understanding of the secondary capital markets We concluded that the revenue recognised revenue in secondary capital trading, revenue share clearing arrangements and information related to secondary capital markets trading, markets trading, revenue share services revenue accruals processes, and evaluated the design revenue share for clearing arrangements, and for clearing arrangements, effectiveness of key controls.
information services revenue accruals for the and information services year ended 31 December 2018 is fairly stated.
revenue accruals We evaluated whether the revenue recognition policy is appropriate and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Secondary capital markets We also performed cut-off testing to gain assurance that revenue was Balance of 0.2 billion, prior year recognised in the correct period.
comparative 0.2 billion Secondary capital markets trading Revenue share for clearing For the secondary capital markets trading process, we performed arrangements Balance of 0.1 testing of the operating effectiveness of key controls in 1 full scope billion, prior year comparative component.
For this component, we concluded that the controls were 0.1 billion designed, implemented and operating effectively, and therefore took a controls-based approach.
We adopted a substantive audit approach Information services revenue accruals in the other in-scope components.
Balance of 0.1 billion, prior year comparative 0.1 billion We increased our standard sample size for transactional testing to respond to the risk of fraud.
We agreed a random selection of Compensation tied to the performance transactions back to supporting audit evidence, such as invoices and of the entity may create an incentive cash receipts.
Where appropriate, we also recalculated the fee charged for management to manipulate results.
and checked back to the pricing policy and relevant tariff schedule.
We have determined this to be a key We reconciled trading platform data to the general ledger and tested audit matter having identified 3 material topside adjustments.
revenue streams with heightened risk of misstatement: We also used analytical tools to identify outliers in large volumes of transactional data for focused follow-up testing.
This analysis Secondary capital markets revenue included comparing the fee per transaction to volume notional for certain business lines involves traded and investigating any particularly high values which were multiple pricing structures based on outliers to the overall population.
product types, customer activity and volumes.
This complexity leads Revenue share for clearing arrangements to a heightened risk that revenue We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls over the may not be recognised revenue share clearing arrangement process, where relevant and we appropriately, either as a result of concluded that the controls were designed, implemented and fraud, or error.
We adopted a substantive audit approach for the remaining revenue share arrangements.
Contracts relating to revenue sharing in respect of clearing arrangements, We tested revenue sharing calculations for all material business lines between the Groups central by checking for consistency with the underlying contracts.
counterparty CCPs and third party We also used analytical procedures in the analysis of the related participants, in some cases, involve revenue streams.
This included analysing monthly trading volumes complex calculations to determine and their correlation with monthly revenue recognised: any the appropriate level of revenue to anomalies identified were investigated.
Information services revenue Information services revenue accruals accruals presented within contract We adopted a substantive audit approach in relation to the assets can require estimation, for information services revenue accruals process.
instance based on prior billings or preliminary usage.
We selected a sample of revenue accruals using a lower testing threshold when compared to our standard testing approach.
For the As a consequence, there is a greater selected samples, we obtained supporting evidence, including risk of misstatement in these customer consent, for accrued amounts.
balances, either by fraud or error, including through the potential For revenue based on assets under management AUM, we tested override of controls by management.
the calculations on a sample basis and checked back to the supporting agreements.
We also validated the AUM used in the Refer to the Report of the Audit calculations to an independent third party source.
Committee page 78 : Accounting policies page 124 : and Note 5 of For Q4 accruals based on Q3 information, we tested the the Financial Statements appropriateness of using Q3 information for purposes of the year end pages 138140 accruals.
We also performed corroborative testing to invoices raised post year end and cash collected where applicable.
The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the current year.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 7 components, which covered 98.3% of the risk amount.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 109 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Application of IFRS 15 to primary We assessed the revised accounting policy for revenue recognition We concluded that the opening adjustments capital markets admission fees for compliance with the new accounting standard made as at 1 January 2018 and subsequent and the IFRIC decision.
revenue recognised related to primary capital IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with markets admission fees, associated contract customers, came into effect from We understood and tested the model used to calculate the period over liability and disclosures for the year ended 31 1 January 2018. which revenue is deferred and subsequently amortised including the December 2018 are fairly stated.
various inputs to the model such as the average life of a customer Previously, the Group recognised admitted to the exchange, historical revenue data and associated admission fees relating to the listing impact on deferred tax.
We adopted a fully substantive approach.
of equity instruments on the date that listing occurred.
We assessed the disclosures within the Annual Report and Accounts for compliance with the requirements of IFRS 15.
The Group evaluated the application of We performed audit procedures in 2 full scope components that were IFRS 15 to admission fees and had impacted by the implementation of IFRS 15. regard to the IFRIC decision issued on 12 September 2018.
Consequently the Group evaluated services of initial admission and ongoing access to the market as one performance obligation, and changed the accounting policy to recognise revenue over the listing period.
This change led to the Group recording a 112 million adjustment to opening retained earnings and contract liabilities, as well as the recognition of a 27 million deferred tax asset.
Our audit procedures focused on the impact of the application of the new standard to primary market admission fee revenue as it requires estimation techniques to derive the period over which admission fee revenue is deferred and subsequently amortised.
Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page 78 : Accounting policies page 124 : and Notes 2 and 4 of the Financial Statements pages 129132 and 138 This has been identified as a new key audit matter for the current year due to the implementation of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to Risk that the implementation of the Oracle finance system could lead to errors in data integrity, accounting or financial reporting.
As the implementation had been completed for all entities prior to the start of the current period except for LCH SA, the audit team did not assess this to be a key audit matter for the 2018 audit.
In addition to this, the prior year audit report included the key audit matter Risk that the acquisition of businesses was accounted for incorrectly which predominantly related to the acquisitions of Mergent Inc and The Yield Book Inc occurring in 2017.
During 2018, there have been no significant business combinations and so this was no longer identified as a key audit matter.
110 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Independent Auditors Report An overview of the scope of our audit The remaining 72 components together represent less than 5% of the Groups Tailoring the scope pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit, revenue and total assets.
For these Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of components we performed other procedures, including analytical review and performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, to respond to Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Group financial potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment our audit teams.
and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Pre-tax profit 5% In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in 20% the financial statements, of the 132 reporting components of the Group, we selected 21 components covering entities headquartered within the United Full Kingdom, United States of America, Italy, France and Sri Lanka, which represent Specic the principal business units within the Group.
Out of Scope Of the 21 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 7 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 14 components 75% specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements Adjusted pre-tax profit either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
5% Scope Procedures performed by Number of components Full Primary team 4 18% Full Component teams 3 Specific Primary team 13 Full Specific Component team 1 Specic Total 21 Out of Scope Details of the 4 components which were audited by component teams are set 77% out below: Component Headquartered location Scope Auditor London Stock Exchange Revenue Group Holdings Italy S. p. A. Italy Full EY 3% 2% 1 LSEG US Holdco Inc. United States of America Full EY LCH S. A. France Full EY and BDO Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited Sri Lanka Specific EY Full 1.
Some specific accounts within LSEG US Holdco Inc. were audited by the EY primary audit team Specic The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for Out of Scope 95% 2017: 94% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 95% 2017: 97% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality see page 112, 97% 2017: 99% of the Groups Revenue and 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups 95% Total assets.
Total assets For the current year, the full scope components contributed 75% 2017: 70% of 0% the Groups pre-tax profit, 77% 2017: 72% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit, 95% 2017: 93% of the Groups Revenue and 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed 20% 2017: 27% of the Groups pre-tax Full profit, 18% 2017: 22% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit, 2% 2017: 6% of the Specic Groups Revenue and less than 1% 2017: 1% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit Out of Scope scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
100% The percentages were calculated based on absolute values London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 111 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Changes from the prior year Materiality All full scope components remain consistent.
In the prior year, we identified 18 The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the specific scope components.
Specific scope components have been re-assessed aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of as the contribution of these smaller parts of the business to the Group financial the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining statements varies each year.
the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined overall materiality for the Group to be 35.5 million Involvement with component teams 2017: 30.0 million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of continuing operations, calculated by including the impact of amortisation of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the purchased intangible assets, but excluding other non-underlying items as primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global disclosed in Note 8 of the financial statements.
network firms or other firms operating under our instruction.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 7.1 million Of the 7 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 4 of these 2017: 5.6 million, which is based on the allocated performance materiality for directly by the primary audit team.
For the 3 full scope and 1 specific scope purposes of the Group audit.
This allocated materiality is based on the relative components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we scale and risk of the Parent Company to the Group as a whole, and our assessment determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that of the risk of misstatement at the Parent Company.
sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
We consider the basis of our materiality to be one of the important considerations for shareholders of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has Group.
It is linked to the key earnings measures discussed when the Group been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal presents the financial results.
In addition to non-underlying items, the Group also locations of the Group.
excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles to present adjusted operating During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior profit: this amount is not excluded from our materiality calculation.
Statutory Auditor and or other senior members of the primary audit team to the Our overall materiality threshold provided a basis for determining the nature, following locations: timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the Number risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of Component Location Scope of visits further audit procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional London Stock Exchange judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative Group Holdings Italy S. p. A. Milan, Italy Full 2 considerations implicit in the definition.
LSEG US Holdco Inc. New York, United States of America Full 2 Starting basis 684.9 million LCH S. A. Paris, France Full 2 Profit before tax from continuing operations These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In Adjustments 25.6 million addition, we participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected key audit working papers.
The primary team interacted regularly with the Exclude non-underlying items, mostly costs related to component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed the ongoing restructuring of LCH, integration of the key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit acquired businesses Mergent Inc. and The Yield Book process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, and Citi Fixed Income Indices and costs for potential gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
M&A transactions Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, Adjusted 710.6 million in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in basis forming our audit opinion.
Adjusted pre-tax profit from continuing operations but including amortisation of purchased intangible assets Materiality Materiality of 35.5 million 5% of materiality basis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
112 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Governance Independent Auditors Report Performance materiality Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 17.8 million 2017: 15.0 knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is the If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, lowest in the range due to misstatements which were identified in the prior year we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the audit.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed our based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material overall materiality of 35.5 million 2017: 30.0 million for the Group financial misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of that those items meet the following conditions: misstatement at that component.
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 105 the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to components taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the was as follows: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, Allocated performance business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge materiality obtained in the audit: or Component m London Stock Exchange Group plc 3.6 Audit Committee reporting set out on page 7479 the section describing the London Stock Exchange plc 11.5 work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters LCH Limited 9.8 communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or LCH S. A.
3.6 Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy S. p. A.
8.9 out on pages 62, 6971 and 101 the parts of the directors statement required LSEG US Holdco, Inc. 9.8 under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK FTSE International Limited 8.9 Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the All specific scope components 3.6 auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 clearly trivial.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.8 million 2017: 1.0 million, which is set at 5% of In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in considerations in forming our opinion.
accordance with applicable legal requirements Other information Matters on which we are required to report by exception The other information comprises the information included in the annual report In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent set out on pages 2105 including the Strategic Report including Highlights, company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Chairmans Statement, CEOs statement, What we do our business model, identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Overview of Group activities, Market trends and our response, Strategy in action, We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to Executive management team, Segmental review, Our Wider Responsibility, which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Financial review, and Principal risks and uncertainties, Governance information and disclosures including Board of Directors, Corporate governance, Complying adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, with the provisions of the Code, Report of the Nomination Committee, Report of the or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not Audit Committee, Report of Risk Committee, Directors Remuneration Report, visited by us: or Directors Report and Statement of Directors responsibilities, other than the the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting for the other information.
records and returns: or London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 113 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved we have not received all the information and explanations we require for inquiries of senior management, legal counsel, the compliance officer and our audit.
internal audit, review of significant correspondence with regulatory bodies and minutes of meetings of the Board and certain Board committees, and focused Responsibilities of directors testing, as referred to in the Key Audit Matters section above As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 105, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements The Group operates in the exchange and CCP industries which are regulated and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal environments.
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor reviewed the experience control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of experts fraud or error.
where appropriate The FCA has regulatory oversight over London Stock Exchange plc and certain In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing other entities within the Group.
The Bank of England BOE supervises CCPs in the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, the UK and therefore regulates LCH Limited.
In addition, local regulatory bodies disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going in France and Italy regulate other subsidiaries of the Group, including: LCH SA concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the which is regulated by LAutorit fide Contrle Prudentiel et fide Rsolution ACPR, Group or the parent company, or to cease operations, or have no realistic Banque fide France BDF and the Autorit des Marchs Financiers AMF : and alternative but to do so.
Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Cassa Di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G, EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. MTS Societ per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A. MTS Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and Monte Titoli S. p. A. which are all regulated by Commissione Nazionale per la Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial Societ e la Borsa and Banca dItalia statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit statements is located on the FRCs website at https: www.
uk conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material .
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be Other matters we are required to address expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these We were appointed by the Company on 12 June 2014 to audit the financial financial statements.
statements for the 9 months period ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of previous renewals and reappointments is 5 years, covering the 9 months period detecting irregularities, including fraud ended 31 December 2014 to the year ended 31 December 2018 The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with Use of our report governance of the entity and management.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Our approach was as follows: undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are the UK To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Companies Act 2006, UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, The Financial to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules, other relevant FCA rules and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
regulations, and tax legislation governed by HM Revenue and Customs We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of senior management, including the Global General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Head of Compliance and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
We also reviewed significant correspondence between the Group and regulatory Maurice McCormick Senior Statutory Auditor bodies, reviewed minutes of the Board, Risk Committee, and gained an for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor understanding of the Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the London Boards approval of the Groups governance framework and the Boards review of 1 March 2019 the Groups risk management framework and internal control processes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the London Stock Exchange Group plc website is the We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the controls that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website the Group has established to address risks identified by the Group, or that 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions performance and incentive plan targets and their potential to influence management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of investors 114 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018
