Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies A disposal group qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of an The Groups consolidated and the Companys financial statements are prepared in entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS a represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European operations: Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
b is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations: or The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial c is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as operations in the income statement.
Comparatives are also re-presented to modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and on the reclassify disposed businesses or held for sale businesses which meet the criteria basis of the Groups accounting policies.
The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income Investments in subsidiary companies shares, loans and other contributions are statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding of its results recognised at cost.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate the by presenting profit for the year before any non-underlying items.
Noncarrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys underlying items include amortisation of purchased intangible assets and other financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
income or expenses not considered to drive the operating results of the Group.
This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted earnings per share.
Profit Recent accounting developments before non-underlying items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of The following standards and amendments were endorsed by the EU and have the income statement.
been adopted in these financial statements: IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and measurement and The Company is a public company, incorporated and domiciled in England amendments regarding general hedge accounting and Wales.
The address of its registered office is 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LS.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payment on classification and As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys measurement of share-based payment transactions income statement has not been included in these financial statements.
IFRIC 22, Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the The impact of adopting IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on the Groups financial results is Company and its subsidiary companies with all inter-company balances and described in detail in Note 2.
The adoption of the other standards did not have a transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results material impact on the results of the Group.
The results of subsidiary companies sold or acquired in the period The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the International are included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC, but have not been adopted either Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns because they were not endorsed by the EU at 31 December 2018 or they are not from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen to early adopt.
The Group plans to through its power over the investee.
adopt these standards and interpretations when they become effective.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, amendments The acquisition of subsidiary companies is accounted for using the acquisition and interpretations is still under review, and where appropriate, a description of method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair the impact of certain standards and amendments is provided below: values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the IFRS 16, Leases 1 January 2019 acquiree.
Upon completion of the Groups fair value exercise, comparatives are IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 revised up to 12 months after the acquisition date, for the final fair value Amendments to IAS 28, Long-term interest in adjustments.
Further details are provided in Note 33.
Adjustments to fair values Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 19, Plan amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 1 January 2019 The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests Amendments to IFRS 9, Prepayment features through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests with negative compensation 1 January 2019 are recognised in equity.
Where the non-controlling interest has an option to IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 dispose of their holding to the Group, then the amounts potentially due are recognised at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
With the exception of IFRS 16, the changes in the other standards are not expected to have a material effect on the Group.
122 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases is effective for the year ending 31 December 2019 and will require all lease amounts to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only requires lease amounts categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the balance sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised.
The Group expects to recognise right of use assets of 145 million, and investment in lease assets of 3 million and a corresponding lease liabilities of 190 million on 1 January 2019 in relation to property leases.
Differences of 42 million between the leased assets and liabilities will be recognised in opening reserves on transition to the new standard.
Amounts previously recognised in operating expenses in relation to lease expenses will be recognised as a combination of depreciation and lease interest expense.
This will affect earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and impairment EBITDA and profit before tax on adoption.
The expected impact is as follows: Increase decrease Estimated effect on the income statement m Description Operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment 31 Amounts formerly recognised as rent Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment 31 Depreciation 26 Depreciation of the right of use asset Finance expense 4 Finance expense on lease liabilities Finance income Finance income on investment in lease Depreciation and net finance expense 30 Profit before tax 1 Net effect on profit Estimated effect on the balance sheet Right of use asset 145 Net book value of right of use assets Investment in lease 3 Present value of future rent receipts Total assets 148 Lease liabilities 190 Present value of future lease obligations Total liabilities 190 Net assets 42 Net effect on net assets Retained earnings 42 Total equity 42 Opening balance adjustment on adoption Basic and adjusted earnings per share 0.3p Costs relating to items that do not qualify as leased assets under the new standard because they are short-term arrangements or low value items will continue to be recognised in operating expenses.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 123 Notes to the financial statements continued Accounting policies Income Statement Revenue The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers with effect 1 January 2018.
The impact of adopting the standard is detailed in Note 2.
The main source of the Groups revenue is through fees for services provided.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer.
Amounts deducted from revenue relate to discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes, revenue share arrangements whereby as part of an operating agreement amounts are due back to the customer and pass-through costs where the Group has arrangements to recover specific costs from its customers with no mark up.
The Group recognises revenue as services are performed and as it satisfies its obligations to provide a product or service to a customer.
Further details of the Groups revenue accounting policy are set out below: Information The Information Services segment generates revenues from the provision of information and data products including Services indexes, benchmarks, real time pricing data and trade reporting and reconciliation services.
Data subscription and index licence fees are recognised over the licence or usage period as the Group meets its obligation to deliver data consistently throughout the licence period.
Services are billed on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
Other information services include licences to the regulatory news service and reference data business.
Revenue from licences that grant the right to access intellectual property are recognised over time, consistent with the pattern of the service provision and how our performance obligation is satisfied throughout the licence period.
Revenues from other information services, including revenues from the sale of right to use licences, are recognised at the point the licence is granted or service is delivered.
Post Trade LCH, CC&G Revenue in the Post Trade segments are generated from clearing, settlement, custody and other post trade services.
and Monte Titoli Clearing, settlement and custody services generate fees from trades or contracts cleared and settled, compression and custody services which are recognised as revenue at the point when the service is rendered on a per transaction basis.
Services are billed on a monthly basis.
Other post trade services include revenue from client connectivity services which is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis over the service period as this reflects the continuous transfer of services.
Capital Markets Revenues in the Capital Markets segment are generated from Primary and Secondary market services.
Primary market initial admission and the ongoing listing services represent one performance obligation and the Group recognises revenue from initial admissions and further issues over a period the Group provides the listing services.
All admission fees are billed to the customer at the time of admission to trading and become payable when invoiced.
Primary markets annual fees, secondary markets membership and subscription fees are generally paid in advance on the first day of the membership or subscription period.
The Group recognises revenue on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates, as this reflects the extent of the Groups progress towards completion of the performance obligation under the contract.
Revenue from secondary market trading and associated capital market services is recognised as revenue on a per transaction basis at the point that the service is provided.
Technology Technology revenue is generated from contracts to develop capital market technology solutions, software licences, network connections and hosting services.
Capital markets software licences contracts contain multiple deliverables for the provision of licences and software installation, and ongoing maintenance services.
The transaction price for each contract is allocated to these performance obligations based upon the relative standalone selling price.
Revenue is recognised based on the actual service provided during the reporting period, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
This is determined by measuring the inputs consumed in delivering the service for example, material and actual labour relative to the total expected input consumption over the contract.
This best reflects the transfer of assets to the customer which generally occurs as the Group incurs costs on the contract.
Network connections and service hosting revenues are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates as this reflects the continuous transfer of technology services and measures the extent of progress towards the completion of the performance obligation.
Other Fees are generated from the provision of events and media services, and are typically recognised as revenue at the point the service is rendered and becomes payable when invoiced.
Customer contracts across the Group that contain a single performance obligation at a fixed price do not require variable consideration to be constrained or allocated to multiple performance obligations.
However, certain businesses in the Group provide services to customers under a tiered and tariff pricing structure that generates a degree of variability in the revenue streams from the contract.
Where the future revenue from a contract varies due to factors that are outside of the Groups control, the Group limits the total transaction price at contract inception and recognises the minimum expected revenue guaranteed by the terms of the contract over the contract period.
Any variable element is subsequently recognised in the period in which the variable factor occurs.
As permitted by the practical expedient in IFRS 15, the Group does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components in contracts where the Group expects at contract inception, the period between the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that service to be 1 year or less.
124 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Other income Share-based compensation Other income typically relates to property rental income and property The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based compensation plans service charges.
The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised Cost of sales over the relevant vesting period.
Cost of sales comprises data and licence fees, data feed costs, expenses incurred in respect of revenue share arrangements and costs incurred in the MillenniumIT Foreign currencies business that are directly attributable to the construction and delivery of The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the customers goods or services, and any other costs linked and directly incurred to Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions generate revenues and provide services to customers.
are converted into the functional currency of the reporting entity using the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting Revenue share expenses presented within cost of sales relate to arrangements from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end with customers where the revenue share payment is not limited to the amount of rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are revenues receivable from the specific customer.
recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on pension fund assets or liabilities which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Contract costs Incremental costs of obtaining a customer contract, such as sales commissions The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional paid to employees, are recognised as an intangible asset if the benefit of such currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the costs is expected to be longer than 1 year.
The associated asset is amortised over presentation currency as follows: the period from which a customer benefits from existing software technology a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and supporting the underlying product or service, which the Group has determined to fair value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate: be between 3 to 5 years and is presented as an intangible asset in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
The Group amortises the contract costs over the b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income statement period from which a customer benefits from existing software technology at the average rate for the period: and supporting the underlying product or service.
c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The Group also applies the practical expedient in IFRS 15 to recognise the incremental cost of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred, if the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net amortisation period is 1 year or less.
investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders Net treasury income equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of the risk management as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Net treasury income is the result of interest earned on cash assets lodged with the clearing house, less interest paid to the members on their initial margin Finance income and expense and default fund contributions.
Net treasury income is shown separately from the Finance income and expense comprise interest earned on cash deposited with Group revenues on the face of the income statement to distinguish this income financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect the agreed stream from revenues arising from the Groups other activities and provides the market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken during the reader with a greater understanding of the operating activities of the Group.
financial period, and calculated using the effective interest rate method.
In Where negative interest rates apply, the Group recognises interest paid on cash conditions where negative interest rates apply, the Group recognises interest paid assets as a treasury expense and interest received on clearing members margin on cash deposits as an expense and interest received on liabilities as income.
Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities, cash Non-underlying items management transactions and the payment services provided by the Groups Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are not banks, are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility considered to be incurred in the normal course of business are classified as arrangement fees are capitalised and then amortised back to the income non-underlying items on the face of the income statement within their relevant statement over the term of the facility subject to projected utilisation.
The separate reporting of these items together with amortisation of charges are included within other finance costs.
purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the Groups sustainable performance.
Non-underlying items are disclosed in Note 8.
Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement in the market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
Pension costs The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense.
The interest cost and expected return on plan assets is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting period.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the difference between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 125 Notes to the financial statements continued Balance Sheet On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and liabilities Property, plant and equipment acquired.
These may include brand names, customer and supplier relationships, Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at cost software licences and intellectual property, all of which are recorded as intangible less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives which are as follows: Land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment a Customer and supplier relationships 2 to 25 years material assets are are depreciated to residual value on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful amortised over a life exceeding 15 years : economic lives of the assets which are as follows: b Brand names 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life of 25 a Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years: years : and b Fixed plant 3 to 20 years: and c Software licences and intellectual property 2 to 25 years the majority of c Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years.
material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding 5 years.
Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated The useful economic lives are based on managements best estimates such as to residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful attrition rates on customer relationships, product upgrade cycles for software and economic life of the asset.
technology assets, market participant perspective for brands and pace of change of regulation for business.
Investment in associates An associate is a company over which the Group has significant influence.
Third party software costs for the development and implementation of systems Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised and amortised decisions of the company, but is not control nor joint control over those policies.
over their estimated useful economic lives of 3 to 5 years.
The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be The Company accounts for its investments in associates at cost, less any reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially impairments recognised through the income statement.
feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are Under the equity method, investments are initially recognised at cost and recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third party adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or expenses, and amortised over their useful economic lives of 3 to 7 years.
losses, and if applicable, the Groups share of movements in other comprehensive income.
Dividends received or receivable from associates are recognised as a Intangible assets are assessed for any indicators of impairment at each balance reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
Where indicators of impairment for a particular intangible asset are identified, a full impairment assessment is performed, with any diminution in The Group and Companys investments in associates are assessed for value recognised in the income statement.
For assets with an indefinite useful life impairment at each balance sheet date.
Where indicators of impairment are a full impairment assessment is performed annually.
When performing any identified a full impairment assessment is performed.
Any difference between impairment assessment, in addition to considering matters particular to the the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value is recognised as relevant Group business area, management evaluates the overall value of the asset an impairment loss within Share of profit or loss of associates in the Group from the perspective of a market participant.
Accordingly, any reduction in value consolidated income statement.
is recorded to ensure the intangible asset is held at fair value.
Leases Current and non-current classification Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are Current assets comprise assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under equivalents, and assets expected to be realised within 1 year from the reporting operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis.
date, or intended for trade or consumption and realised in the course of the Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
The Group leases certain plant and equipment and licences where the Group Current liabilities comprise liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at liabilities due within 1 year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the classified as non-current liabilities.
Current and deferred taxation Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the liability The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Plant substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences Intangible assets arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable profits.
the aggregate consideration transferred, then the difference is recognised in profit or loss as a gain on purchase.
126 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL no ECL is calculated for On 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
The impact assets held at FVPL as any expected loss is already recognised in the fair value of adopting the new standard is detailed in Note 2.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised The Group classifies its financial instruments as fair value through profit or loss amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and FVPL, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or amortised cost.
The classification depends on the Groups business model for managing its financial instruments and whether the cash flows generated are solely payments Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank, short-term deposits and of principal and interest SPPI.
investments in money market funds, and other instruments and structures that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant Initial recognition: risk of changes in value.
Financial assets at amortised cost are financial assets that are held in order to collect the contractual cash flows, and the contractual terms give rise to cash Clearing member cash and cash equivalents represents amounts received from flows that are solely payments of principal and interest.
The Groups cash and the clearing members to cover initial and variation margins and default fund cash equivalents and trade and other receivables fall within this category.
contributions that are not invested in bonds.
These amounts are deposited with Clearing member trading balances relating to sale and buy back transactions banks, including central banks, or invested securely in overnight reverse and other receivables from clearing members of the CCP businesses also fall repurchase contracts reverse repos.
within this category Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI Fair value measurement are assets where the objective is achieved by both collecting the contractual All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured are categorised within the cash flows or selling the asset.
The contractual cash flows received are solely fair value hierarchy which is described in detail in Note 20. payments of principal and interest.
This category includes investments in financial assets and quoted debt instruments predominantly government For assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the bonds held by the CCP businesses of the Group, which are used under the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy business model to both collect the contractual cash flows and also to sell.
by re-assessing categorisation at each balance sheet date.
Any profit or loss recognised in other comprehensive income on debt instruments is recycled to the income statement if the asset is sold.
Any Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities profit or loss on an equity investment remains in retained earnings and is Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is not recycled through the income statement entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL include all other whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so the financial assets not classified as amortised cost or FVOCI.
This category includes nature of the item being hedged.
CCP businesses clearing member trading balances comprising derivatives, equity and debt instruments that are marked to market on a daily basis.
There is The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk on no change to the previous treatment for these instruments borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVPL are liabilities that finance expense.
must be held at fair value.
This includes all the CCP businesses clearing member trading balances, comprising derivatives, equity and debt instruments, which The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives and are marked to market on a daily basis hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective Financial liabilities at amortised cost are all financial liabilities that are not portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
included within financial liabilities at FVPL.
This comprises the Groups trade and other payables balances, borrowings and other payables to clearing members The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its foreign subsidiaries by designating Euro and US Dollar borrowings and derivative instruments as net Subsequent measurement: investment hedges.
The Group adopts a forward-looking approach to estimate impairment losses on financial assets.
An expected credit loss ECL is calculated based on the difference In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria as between the contractual cash flows due and the expected cash flows.
The regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability of difference is discounted at the assets original effective interest rate and measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the recognised as an allowance against the original value of the asset.
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging Financial assets at amortised cost the ECL for trade receivables, contract assets transactions.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the and cash and cash equivalents is calculated using IFRS 9s simplified approach commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge using lifetime ECL.
The allowance is based on the Groups historic experience of continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The collection rates, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to each counterparty ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
and the economic environment at large to create an expected loss matrix.
The ECL on other financial assets held at amortised cost is measured using the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the general approach.
The Group calculates an allowance based on the 12-month period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast ECL at each reporting date until there is a significant increase in the financial transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is instruments credit risk, at which point the Group will calculate a loss allowance sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any based on the lifetime ECL, as described above for FVOCI assets cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the the Groups financial assets held at FVOCI consist of high-quality government cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to bonds that have a low credit risk.
The Groups policy is to calculate a 12-month the income statement.
If there is a significant increase in credit risk, then a lifetime ECL will be calculated.
A significant increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 127 Notes to the financial statements continued Trade and other receivables Property provisions are made in the financial statements at the lower of the cost Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at of fulfilling lease commitments for property space surplus to business amortised cost, less any loss allowance.
The Groups approach to calculating credit requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any loss allowances is described above within the financial instruments policy.
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
Recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
All provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at passage of time is recognised as a finance expense.
amortised cost, less any loss allowance as described above.
Commitments to purchase non-controlling interests Contract assets Where the Group has granted put options to non-controlling interest shareholders, Contract assets are recognised when the Group has the conditional right to these are treated as liabilities as the Group has no control over whether these consideration from a customer in exchange for goods or services transferred.
options are exercised or not.
The amounts due are recognised at fair value and are revalued on each balance sheet date.
When the liability is recognised initially, the Contract assets are transferred to and presented as trade receivables when the redemption amount is reclassified from non-controlling interests.
The changes in entitlement to payment becomes unconditional and only the passage of time is the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in required before payment is due.
the measurement of the liability that do not change the relative interests in the subsidiary company that are held by the parent and the non-controlling interest Assets and liabilities held for sale shareholder are not equity transactions.
Assets and liabilities are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is Equity and related items considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and Share capital fair value less costs to sell.
The share capital of the Company includes balances relating to the Companys ordinary equity shares, own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and Contract liabilities treasury shares held by the Company.
Revenue relating to future periods is classified as a contract liability on the balance sheet to reflect the Groups obligation to transfer goods or services to a When the Company issues new shares to the Employee Benefit Trust at par, the customer for which it has received consideration, or an amount of consideration is share capital of the Company is increased by the par value of these own shares, due, from the customer.
and a corresponding deduction or debit is recorded to the employee share scheme reserves within retained earnings.
Contract liabilities are amortised and recognised as revenue in the income statement over the period the services are rendered.
From time to time, the Company may also issue new shares to the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy vesting of specific employee share schemes.
These shares Borrowings may be issued at a subscription price above par value, reflecting the option cost Borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct payable by the participant in the employee share scheme.
In such instances, the issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, share capital of the Company is increased by the par value of these own shares these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is charged to the and the difference between the subscription price and the par value of the own income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest share is recorded in share premium.
A corresponding deduction or debit is rate method.
Similarly, direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront recognised in the employee share scheme reserves within retained earnings.
facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Shares reacquired by the Company from the open market as part of share buyback programmes are referred to as treasury shares and are held by the Preference shares Company.
The consideration payable is deducted from retained earnings.
Preference shares or components of preference shares are classified on initial recognition as a financial liability or equity based on the terms of the contract.
The par value of the treasury shares is then recorded as a transfer from the They are classified as a financial liability if the terms impose a contractual Companys ordinary equity shares to treasury shares within share capital.
No gain or loss is recognised by the Company in the income statement on the Provisions purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys own shares held by the A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or Employee Benefit Trust and treasury shares.
constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate Dividend distributions can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are recognised as a liability in the Group financial statements in the period in which the dividends are The amount recognised as a provision is the present value of the best estimate approved by the Companys shareholders.
The Group maintains a sustainable of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the progressive dividend policy.
The interim dividend will generally be payable each reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would year in September and final dividend in May.
The Groups dividend policy rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer it determines that the interim dividend is calculated as one-third of the prior full to a third party.
128 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 2.
Adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations On 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9.
The impact of adopting the new standards has been reflected through transition adjustments to the Groups opening retained earnings at the start of the current year, as presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The table below provides a summary of the impact at the date of transition: Transition adjustments As previously IFRS 15 reported Capital Markets IFRS 15 IFRS 15 After adoption 1 31 December 2017 Revenue Contract costs Other IFRS 9 1 January 2018 Notes m m m m m m 2 Intangible assets revised 15 4,589 12 4,601 2 Trade and other receivables revised 22 689 10 699 Deferred tax assets 18 38 27 65 Accrued income 22 156 156 Contract assets 23 156 156 Other assets 736,508 736,508 Total assets 741,980 27 12 10 742,029 Deferred income 25 104 104 Contract liabilities 26 139 104 1 244 Deferred tax liabilities 18 502 2 2 506 Other liabilities 737,622 737,622 Total liabilities 738,228 139 2 3 738,372 Share capital, share premium and other reserves 2,808 2,808 Retained earnings 419 112 10 7 324 Non-controlling interests 525 525 Total equity 3,752 112 10 7 3,657 1.
Under IFRS 15, accrued income and deferred income are now referred to as contract assets and contract liabilities respectively, and are presented as separate line items on the face of the Groups consolidated balance sheet 2.
The 31 December 2017 comparatives have been revised for IFRS 3 fair value adjustments on the acquisition of the Yield Book business.
Refer to Note 33 for further details Further details on the impact of each of the new accounting standards is provided below.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers impact of adoption The Group adopted IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January 2018.
This new accounting standard requires the Group to recognise revenue when the Group transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new guidance requires more detailed revenue disclosures and policies to identify the Groups performance obligations to customers.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 prospectively from 1 January 2018 under the modified retrospective approach, and consequently the comparative amounts in the Groups consolidated financial statements remain unchanged and are reported under IAS 18 Revenue IAS 18.
As permitted by IFRS 15, the Group applied the new standard to contracts that were not completed as at the 1 January 2018 transition date.
IFRS 15 has impacted the Groups consolidated financial statements from 1 January 2018 in the following ways: Capital Markets Revenue In the period since issuing its Interim Report on 2 August 2018, the Group received clarification guidance from the IFRIC regarding the impact of adopting IFRS 15 on admission and listing services provided by the Groups Primary Markets businesses, within the Capital Markets segment.
Under IAS 18, initial admission fees were recognised at the time of admission to trading.
On conversion to IFRS 15, with the effect back-dated to 1 January 2018, the Group treats the initial admission and the ongoing listing service as one performance obligation and recognises revenue from initial admissions and further issues over the period the Group provides the listing service.
This is estimated to be between 12 and 4 years dependent on the nature of the listing and the service provided.
As a result the Group recorded a 112 million adjustment to opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2018, as presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity comprising a 139 million increase in the total contract liabilities, representing admission fee revenues previously recognised as revenue prior to transition which are now deferred, and a consequential 27 million increase in deferred tax assets.
Revenues deferred as at 1 January 2018 result in a recovery of tax paid at the prevailing rate on adoption of IFRS 15 by means of a reduction in the corporation tax payable due to the relevant tax authorities.
The Group will subsequently incur corporation tax charge as the deferred revenues from initial admission and further issue fees are recognised in the income statement.
All new and further listing fees will continue to be billed and the cash collected upfront.
In the first year of adoption of IFRS 15, the Groups cash and cash equivalent position will incrementally benefit from a reduction in corporation tax payable to the relevant tax authorities than what would have otherwise been payable had the new accounting standard not been adopted.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 129 Notes to the financial statements continued Contract costs The adoption of the new standard required the Groups incremental sales commission costs that were previously expensed when incurred, to be capitalised when they are expected to be recovered.
The capitalised contract costs are amortised over the period from which a customer benefits from existing software technology supporting the underlying product or service, which the Group has determined to be between 3 to 5 years.
As a result the Group recorded a 10 million adjustment to opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2018, as presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity comprising a 12 million increase in the intangible assets from capitalising sales commissions previously expensed prior to transition, and a consequential 2 million increase in deferred tax liabilities.
The table below shows the amounts by which the Groups financial statements are affected as at and for the year ended 31 December 2018 as a result of adopting IFRS 15.
Year ended 31 December 2018 Capital IFRS 15 Markets Contract reported Revenue costs IAS 18 Effect on the income statement m m m m Total income 2,135 13 2,148 Cost of sales 227 227 Gross profit 1,908 13 1,921 Operating expenses before depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation, and impairment 855 10 865 Depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation and impairment 294 6 288 Operating profit loss 751 13 4 760 Net finance expense 66 66 Profit loss before tax 685 13 4 694 Taxation 132 2 1 133 Profit loss for the year 553 11 3 561 At 31 December 2018 Capital IFRS 15 Markets Contract reported Revenue costs IAS 18 Effect on the balance sheet m m m m Intangible asset 4,687 16 4,671 Current tax 147 29 2 120 Other assets 838,012 838,012 Total assets 842,846 29 14 842,803 Contract liabilities 271 152 119 Deferred tax liabilities 475 1 474 Other liabilities 838,402 838,402 Total liabilities 839,148 152 1 838,995 Share capital, share premium and other reserves 2,919 2,919 Retained earnings 424 123 13 534 Non-controlling interests 355 355 Total equity 3,698 123 13 3,808 Year ended 31 December 2018 Capital IFRS 15 Markets Contract Effect on the earnings per share attributable to equity holders reported Revenue costs IAS 18 Basic earnings per share 138.3p 3.2p 0.9p 140.6p Diluted earnings per share 136.0p 3.1p 0.8p 138.3p Adjusted basic earnings per share 173.8p 3.2p 0.9p 176.1p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 170.8p 3.1p 0.8p 173.1p 130 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements IFRS 9 Financial instruments impact of adoption Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL are either assets that On 1 January 2018 the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial instruments and applied are designated as FVPL on recognition, or that are traded on a regular basis.
The Group has elected to continue to apply hedge category includes derivative instruments held by the Group and CCP clearing accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
member trading balances comprising derivatives, equity and debt instruments that are marked to market on a daily basis.
There is no change to the previous The Group has not restated comparative amounts in the financial statements, as treatment for these instruments.
At the date of transition 549,891 million of this would require the use of hindsight in factors influencing measurement such assets remained as FVPL as fair values and expected credit loss calculations and therefore is prohibited by Financial liabilities at amortised cost are all financial liabilities that are not the standard.
Instead the Group has recognised any differences between the included within financial liabilities at FVPL.
This comprises the Groups trade carrying amounts measured in accordance with IFRS 9 at the date of transition and other payables balances and borrowings as well as clearing member with previously reported carrying amounts in the opening retained earnings of the trading balances related to sale and buy-back transactions and other payables current period.
This has resulted in a 7 million adjustment to opening retained to clearing members.
There was no change on the previous treatment for earnings as at 1 January 2018, as presented in the consolidated statement of these instruments changes in equity.
This comprises a 10 million reduction in the provision for impairment of trade receivables and a 1 million reversal of contract liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVPL includes all the CCP prior to the adoption of IFRS 15 referred to as deferred income previously clearing member trading balances, comprising derivatives, equity and debt provided for as the Group modified its previous impairment model to an expected instruments, which are marked to market on a daily basis, along with any credit loss approach which takes into account historic collection rates as well as derivative instruments held by the Group.
There was no change to the previous forward-looking information, and a consequential 2 million increase in deferred treatment for these instruments tax liability.
IFRS 9 adopts a new approach to calculating impairment losses on financial Amounts presented in the Groups consolidated financial statements as at 31 instruments, with the Group required to adopt a forward-looking approach to December 2017 have been updated to adopt the new terminology under IFRS 9. estimate expected credit losses ECLs.
ECLs are based on the difference between The previously reported loans and receivables and available for sale at fair value the contractual cash flows due and the expected cash flows, the difference is then through other comprehensive income categories are now referred to as financial discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The impact of the new assets at amortised cost and financial assets at fair value through other approach on the Groups financial statements is as follows: comprehensive income FVOCI respectively in Note 20.
Financial assets at amortised cost the ECL for trade receivables, contract The new standard requires financial instruments to be classified as fair value assets and cash and cash equivalents is calculated using IFRS 9s simplified through profit or loss FVPL, fair value through other comprehensive income approach using lifetime ECL.
The new provision is calculated using an expected FVOCI or amortised cost, each of which are explained further below.
The loss matrix which has been developed using the Groups historic experience of classification depends on the Groups business model for managing its financial collection rates, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to each instruments and whether the cash flows generated are solely payments of counterparty and the economic environment at large.
Applying this approach to principal and interest SPPI.
the trade receivables as at 31 December 2017 created a lower provision than previously recognised: accordingly a 7 million net of tax credit to the opening Financial assets at amortised cost are assets that are held to collect the reserves has been recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in contractual cash flows solely payments of principal and interest : this includes equity.
There is no expected loss on cash and cash equivalents on transition to the Groups cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Clearing the new standard member trading balances relating to sale and buy-back transactions and other receivables from clearing members within the Central Counterparty CCP Financial assets held at FVOCI the Groups financial assets held at FVOCI are businesses also fall within this category.
At the date of transition, 164,906 largely held by the CCP businesses and consist of high-quality government million previously reported as loans and receivables are now referred to as bonds that have a low credit risk.
The Groups policy is to calculate a 12-month financial assets at amortised cost ECL on these assets.
A significant increase in credit risk is considered to have Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI are occurred when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due.
As at the assets used by the business mainly to collect the contractual cash flows, but date of adoption, the Group has determined that the 12-month ECL on these also to be sold from time to time.
This category includes investments in financial assets is nil, and there have been no significant increases in credit risk, and assets and quoted debt instruments predominantly government bonds held therefore no lifetime ECL has been calculated for these assets.
Previously these assets were classified as either available for sale at FVOCI or FVPL.
At the date of transition, 3,652 million of Expected credit losses on the remaining financial assets are measured using the other financial assets of the CCP clearing businesses previously designated as general approach.
The Group calculates an allowance based on the 12-month FVPL were reclassified as FVOCI with no change in valuation, and 18,541 million ECL at each reporting date until there is a significant increase in the financial of assets previously designated as available for sale at FVOCI are now referred to instruments credit risk, at which point the Group will calculate a loss allowance as FVOCI with no change in valuation.
Any profit or loss recognised in other based on the lifetime ECL, as described above for FVOCI assets.
The expected comprehensive income on debt instruments is recycled to the income loss in the year was nil statement if the asset is sold.
Any profit or loss on an equity investment remains Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVPL in accordance with in other comprehensive income and is not recycled IFRS 9, no ECLs are required for assets held at FVPL London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 131 Notes to the financial statements continued The table below illustrates the changes to the classification of the Groups financial assets under IFRS 9 and IAS 39 at the date of initial application of IFRS 9: Instrument Description IAS 39 IFRS 9 Assets Clearing member financial assets: Clearing member trading assets Sale and buyback transactions Amortised cost Amortised cost Clearing member trading assets All other clearing member trading assets FVPL FVPL Other receivables from clearing members Interest and margin receipts due Amortised cost Amortised cost Other financial assets Investments relating to cash collateral held FVPL or Available for sale FVOCI Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash of clearing members Amortised cost Amortised cost Trade and other receivables including Trade receivables and other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost non-current receivables Contract assets From contracts with customers Amortised cost Amortised cost Investments in financial assets Typically comprise investments in government debt Available for sale FVOCI Derivative financial instruments Both assets and liabilities FVPL FVPL Liabilities Clearing member financial liabilities: Clearing member trading liabilities Sale and buyback transactions Amortised cost Amortised cost Clearing member trading liabilities All other clearing member trading liabilities FVPL FVPL Other payables to clearing members Interest and margin payments due Amortised cost Amortised cost Trade and other payables, including Trade payables, accruals and deferred consideration Amortised cost Amortised cost other non-current payables Borrowings Bank borrowings and other forms of financing Amortised cost Amortised cost 132 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 3.
Financial risk management The Group seeks to protect its financial performance and the value of its business from exposure to capital, credit, concentration, country, liquidity, settlement, custodial and market including foreign exchange, cash flow and fair value interest rate risks.
The Groups financial risk management approach is not speculative and adopts a 3 lines of defence model.
It is performed both at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage their regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the Groups CCPs at LCH Group and CC&G that adhere to local regulation and operate under approved risk and investment policies.
The Group Chief Risk Officers team provides assurance that the governance and operational controls are effective to manage risks within the Board-approved risk appetite, supporting a robust Group risk management framework.
The Financial Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Financial Risk Committee which is also chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of, and controls around foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and concentration risks and the investment of excess liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
Both committees provide the Groups senior management with assurance that the treasury and risk operations are performed in accordance with Group Board-approved policies and procedures.
Regular updates on a range of key criteria, as well as new developments, are provided through the Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework to the Group Risk Committee.
See Risk Management Oversight Supplement for further detail on the Groups risk framework on our website at: www.
On 23 June 2016 the UK voted to exit the EU.
The UK companies within the Group, as members of the EU or European Economic Area EEA, rely on a number of rights that are available to them to conduct business with other EU or EEA members.
This includes, without limitation, the right for UK CCPs to offer clearing services to EU regulated firms under EMIR, and the right for UK trading venues to offer services to members in the EU or EEA.
The Group companies have analysed the potential impacts and considered contingency plans that they may choose to execute should these rights not be replaced by rights that persist outside EU membership.
Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and strongly cash The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide generative and its capital base comprises equity superior returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other and debt capital.
stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be available at renewal.
Maintaining access to capital and flexibility to invest for growth is a key management However, the Group recognises the risk that its consideration.
entities may not maintain sufficient capital to The Group can manage its capital structure and react to changes in economic conditions by varying returns to meet their obligations or they may make shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and investments that fail to generate a positive or funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
summary of the Groups capital structure is presented below: The Group comprises regulated and unregulated 31 December 31 December Book value of capital entities.
It considers that: 2018 2017 m m increases in the capital requirements of its Total shareholders funds 3,343 3,227 regulated companies, or negative yields on its investments of cash, or Group consolidated debt 2,203 1,953 a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own performance or financial market conditions Whilst the Company is unregulated, the regulated entities within the Group monitor compliance with the capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms of reference of the Financial either separately or in combination are the Risk Committee includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management Policy principal risks to managing its capital.
seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust evaluation, undertaken by the Groups Investment Committee, of the impact of new investments across the Group on its capital position.
Regulated entities within the Group have to date predominantly issued equity and held cash to satisfy their local regulatory capital requirements.
We believe that capital held by Group companies is sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks.
The level of amounts set aside for these purposes remains subject to ongoing review with regulators, particularly in Europe.
The aggregate of the Groups regulatory and operational capital is shown below: 31 December 31 December Regulatory and operational capital 2018 2017 m m Total regulatory and operational capital 1,203 1,147 Amount included in cash and cash equivalents 1,120 1,042 The total capital amounts have increased year on year reflecting strong cash generation at regulated entities and to meet the requirements of MiFID II regulation and IFRS 15 accounting changes.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at a reasonable cost and sustain an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt after excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to proforma adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation, foreign exchange gains or losses and non-underlying items, prorated for acquisitions or disposals undertaken in the period against a target range of 1-2 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies in considering increases to its borrowings.
As at 31 December 2018, net leverage was 1.8 times 2017: 1.7 times and remains well within the Groups target range.
The Group is comfortably in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and interest cover and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 133 Notes to the financial statements continued Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups credit risk relates to its customers Group and counterparties being unable to meet their Credit risk is governed through policies developed at a Group level.
Limits and thresholds for credit and obligations to the Group either in part or in concentration risk are kept under review.
full, including: Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers customer receivables, financial position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low repayment of invested cash and cash incidence of default.
Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so equivalents, and concentration risk on its receivables is deemed by management as low.
settlement of derivative financial instruments Non-CCP entities In their roles as CCP clearers to financial market Credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting exposure to counterparties participants, the Groups CCPs guarantee final with credit rating levels below policy minimum thresholds, potentially overlaid by a default probability settlement of transactions acting as buyer assessment.
Except where specific approval is arranged to increase this limit for certain counterparties, towards each seller and as seller towards each investment limits of between 100 million and 25 million apply for periods between 12 months and 1 buyer.
They manage substantial credit risks as week depending on counterparty credit rating and default probability risk.
Derivative transactions and part of their operations including unmatched other treasury receivable structures are undertaken or agreed with well capitalised counterparties and risk positions that might arise from the default are authorised by policy to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
of a party to a cleared transaction.
For more information see Principal Risks and CCPs Uncertainties, pages 48 to 57.
To address market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical Notwithstanding regulations that require CCPs to and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least daily, to cover the invest predominantly in secured instruments or exposures and theoretical costs which the CCP might incur in order to close out open positions in the event of a structures such as government bonds and reverse members default.
Margins are calculated using established and internationally acknowledged risk models and repos, CC&G and the LCH Group CCPs continue to are debited from participants accounts through central bank accounts and via commercial bank payment be able to maintain up to 5% of their total deposits systems.
Minimum levels of cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is revalued daily.
at commercial banks on an unsecured basis.
Through this potential for its CCPs to invest on an 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 unsecured basis as well as by certain other bn bn regulated and unregulated operations observing agreed investment policy limits, the Group may Clearing members margin liability 175 151 continue to face some risk of direct loss from a Collateral security Cash 81 73 deterioration or failure of one or more of its Non-cash 94 78 unsecured investment counterparties.
Maximum aggregate margin liability for the year 181 161 Concentration risk may arise through Group entities having large individual or connected Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the exposures to groups of counterparties whose markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the likelihood of default is driven by common basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
This is a particular focus of the Furthermore, each of the Groups CCPs reinforces its capital position to meet the most stringent relevant investment approach at the Groups CCPs.
regulatory requirements applicable to it, including holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework in the event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
An analysis of the aggregate clearing member contributions to default funds across the CCPs is shown below: 31 December 31 December Clearing member contributions to default funds 2018 2017 bn bn Aggregate at year end 17 16 Maximum during the year 19 18 Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory bodies including through direct investments in highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and bilateral reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash that is invested unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 bn bn Total investment portfolio 94 87 Maximum portfolio size during the year 103 95 Additional portfolio information: Weighted average invested securely 98% 99% Weighted average maturity days 49 74 Associated liquidity risks are considered in the investment mix and discussed further below.
To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2018 was 17% of the total investment portfolio to the French Government 2017: 24% to the French Government.
134 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Country risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress can result from the risk that certain Specific risk frameworks manage country risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral, and all clearing governments may be unable or find it difficult to members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits and counterparty service their debts.
This could have adverse and clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial market indicators, to effects, particularly on the Groups CCPs, ensure the Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign risk and respond quickly potentially impacting cleared products, margin to anticipated changes.
Risk Committees maintain an ongoing watch over these risks and the associated policy collateral, investments, the clearing membership frameworks to protect the Group against potentially severe volatility in the sovereign debt markets.
and the financial industry as a whole.
The Groups sovereign exposures of 1 billion or more at the end of either of the financial reporting periods shown below are: Group Aggregate Sovereign Treasury Exposures 2018 2017 Country bn bn France 16 21 USA 9 12 Netherlands 7 7 UK 4 6 Switzerland 3 1 EU 3 Italy 2 3 Germany 1 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity Group risk to the extent that they are unable to meet The combined Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not their daily payment obligations.
significantly impacted by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, meet its In addition, the Groups CCPs and certain other pension commitments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory constraints Group companies must maintain a level of impacting certain entities, funds can generally be lent across the Group and cash earnings remitted through liquidity consistent with regulatory requirements dividend payments.
This is an important component of the Group Treasury cash management policy and to ensure the smooth operation of their respective approach.
markets and to maintain operations in the event Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to of a single or multiple market stress event or reflect assumptions about more difficult market conditions or stress events.
This includes the potential requirement to liquidate the position of a clearing Non-CCP entities member under a default scenario including Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending covering the associated losses and the settlement group to cover its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the obligations of the defaulting member.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group extended the maturity of its 2017 arranged, 5-year, The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment 600 million committed revolving credit facility by another year to 2023 and issued a 500 million bond due or settlement bank could fail or that its systems in 2027, further extending its debt maturity profile.
It also issued Euro commercial paper under its newly encounter operational issues, creating liquidity established 1 billion programme, further diversifying its sources of liquidity, with 300 million in issuance at pressures and the risk of possible defaults on the end of the financial year.
At 31 December 2018, 1,159 million 2017: 675 million of the Groups bank payment or receivable obligations.
facilities were unutilised, providing swingline backstop coverage for the 300 million Euro commercial paper in issuance and financing flexibility more broadly for the Group.
The Group uses third-party custodians to hold securities and is therefore exposed to the CCPs custodians insolvency, its negligence, a The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access to misuse of assets or poor administration.
central bank refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to ensure that appropriate levels of back-up liquidity are in place to underpin the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, ensuring that the maximum potential outflow under extreme market conditions is covered see Credit and concentration risk section above.
The Groups CCPs monitor their liquidity needs daily under normal and stressed market conditions.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment settlement techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational facilities with commercial banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements, ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The borrowings line includes future interest on debt that is not accrued for in relation to bonds that are not yet due.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 December 2018 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 601 34 373 1,435 2,443 Trade and other payables 509 509 Clearing member business liabilities 835,508 835,508 Derivative financial instruments 30 17 47 Other non-current liabilities 7 3 1 11 836,648 41 376 1,453 838,518 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 135 Notes to the financial statements continued Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Continued Risk description Risk management approach Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 December 2017 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 556 299 364 951 2,170 Trade and other payables 471 471 Clearing member business liabilities 734,981 734,981 Derivative financial instruments 29 29 Other non-current liabilities 34 12 3 49 736,008 362 376 954 737,700 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates primarily in the UK, Europe The Group seeks to match the currency of its debt liabilities to the currency of its earnings and cash flows and North America, but also has growing and which, to an extent, protects its key ratios net leverage and interest coverage and balances the currency of strategically important businesses in Asia, and its assets with its liabilities.
In order to mitigate the impact of unfavourable currency exchange rate other alliances and investments across the globe.
movements on earnings and net assets, non-Sterling cash earnings are centralised and applied to matching Its principal currencies of operation are Sterling, currency debt and interest payments, and, where relevant, interest payments on Sterling debt reEuro and US Dollars.
denominated through the use of cross-currency swaps.
A material proportion of the Groups debt is held in or swapped into Euros and US Dollars as noted below.
Group companies generally invoice revenues, incur expenses and purchase assets in their 31 December 31 December Currency of debt respective local currencies.
As a result, foreign 2018 2017 exchange risk arises mainly from the translation m m of the Groups foreign currency earnings, assets Euro-denominated drawn debt 1,631 921 and liabilities into its reporting currency, Sterling, Euro-denominated cross-currency interest rate swaps 361 355 and from occasional, high-value intragroup US Dollar-denominated drawn debt transactions.
Exceptions exist including at MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan Rupee reporting US Dollar denominated cross-currency entity which invoices a material proportion of its interest rate swaps 631 622 revenues in US Dollars, and at certain operations of the LCH Group a Euro reporting subsidiary, The cross-currency interest rate swaps are directly linked to Sterling and Euro fixed debt.
The Euro and US which generate material revenues in Sterling and Dollar denominated debt, including the cross-currency swaps, provides a hedge against the Groups net US Dollars and incur material costs in Sterling.
investment in Euro and US Dollar denominated entities.
Intragroup dividends and the currency debt As at 31 December 2018, the Groups designated hedges of its net investments were fully effective.
interest obligations of the Company may create short-term transactional FX exposures but play Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in their part in controlling the level of translational accordance with Group Treasury policy which requires cash flows of more than 5 million or equivalent per FX exposures the Group faces.
annum to be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables within a short timeframe.
Where appropriate, hedge accounting for derivatives is considered in order to The Group may be exposed from time to time to mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
FX risk associated with strategic investments in, or divestments from, operations denominated in In addition to projecting and analysing its earnings and debt profile by currency, the Group reviews currencies other than Sterling.
sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
The Group has considered movements in the Euro and the US Dollar over the year ended 31 December 2018 and year ended 31 December 2017 and, based on actual market observations between its principal currency pairs, has concluded that a 10% movement in rates is a reasonable level to illustrate the risk to the Group.
The impact on post tax profit and equity for the years ended 31 December is set out in the table below: 2018 2017 Post-tax Post-tax profit Equity profit Equity m m m m Euro Sterling weaken 2 16 4 21 Sterling strengthen 2 15 3 19 US Dollar Sterling weaken 7 45 6 39 Sterling strengthen 7 41 5 35 This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of Euro and US Dollar denominated financial assets and financial liabilities, including Euro and US Dollar denominated cash and borrowings.
The impact on the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items, of a 10 Euro cent and 10 US Dollar cent movement in the Sterling-Euro and Sterling-US dollar rates respectively, can be seen below: 2018 2017 m m Euro Sterling weaken 27 25 Sterling strengthen 23 21 US Dollar Sterling weaken 31 26 Sterling strengthen 27 22 136 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the Group interest rate management policy focuses on protecting the Groups credit rating and maintaining impact of changes in market rates on cash flows compliance with bank covenant requirements.
To support this objective, a minimum coverage of interest associated with cash and cash equivalents, expense by EBITDA of 7 times, and a maximum floating rate component of 50% of total debt are targeted.
investments in financial assets and borrowings This approach reflects: held at floating rates.
i. a focus on the Groups cost of gross debt rather than its net debt given the material cash and cash The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure equivalents set aside for regulatory purposes: through the impact of changes in the reference ii.
the short duration allowed for investments of cash and cash equivalents held for regulatory purposes rates used to calculate member liabilities versus which, by their nature, generate low investment yields: the yields achieved through their predominantly iii.
a view currently maintained that already low market yields are unlikely to move materially lower: and secured investment activities.
the broad natural hedge of floating rate borrowings provided by the significant balances of cash and cash equivalents held effectively at floating rates of interest.
As at 31 December 2018, consolidated net interest expense cover by EBITDA was measured over the 12-month period at 16.1 times 2017: 15.5 times and the floating rate component of total debt was 14% 2017: 27%.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets are generally invested in secured instruments or structures and for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is reset daily.
This makes net investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 1 percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 December 2018, at the Group level, if interest rates on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would have been 8 million higher 2017: 5 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents partially offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2018, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for Euro, US Dollar and Sterling liabilities respectively, had been 1 percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post tax profit for the Group would have been 2 million lower 2017: 2 million lower.
This deficit is expected to be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is reinvested.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 137 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
Estimates: For the year ended 31 December 2018, the following areas require the use of estimates: Impairment of purchased intangible assets, goodwill and investment in subsidiaries these assets form a significant part of the balance sheet and are key assets for the cash generating business in the Group.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Details are provided in Note 15: Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 19: and Estimated service period for admission and listing services within the Primary Markets business the Group determines the estimated period for admission services using historical analysis of listing durations in respect of the companies on our markets.
The estimated service period inherently incorporates an element of uncertainty in relation to the length of a customer listing which is subject to factors outside of the Groups control.
The estimated service periods are provided in Note 2 and are reassessed at each reporting date to ensure the period reflects the Groups best estimates.
The Group estimates that a 1-year decrease in the deferral period would cause an estimated 5 million increase in revenue and a 1-year increase in the deferral period would cause an estimated 4 million decrease in revenue recognised in the year.
Judgements: In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, the following judgement has been made: Clearing member trading assets and trading liabilities The Group uses its judgement to carry out the offsetting within clearing member balances.
The carrying values of the balances are offset at what the Group considers an appropriate level to arrive at the net balances reported in the balance sheet.
The Group has an aligned approach for its CCP subsidiaries to ensure the principles applied are consistent across similar assets and liabilities.
The approach is reviewed on a timely basis to ensure the approach used is the most appropriate.
Details of amounts offset are provided in Note 21.
Segmental information The Group is organised into operating units based on its service lines and has 6 reportable segments: Information Services, Post Trade Services LCH, Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli, Capital Markets, Technology Services and Other.
These segments generate revenue in the following areas: Information Services Subscription and licence fees for data and index services provided: Post Trade Services LCH Fees based on CCP and clearing services provided, non-cash collateral management and net interest earned on cash held for margin and default funds: Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli Clearing fees based on trades and contracts cleared, net interest earned on cash, securities held for margin and default funds, and fees from settlement and custody services: Capital Markets Admission fees from initial listing and further capital raises, annual fees charged for securities traded on the Groups markets, and fees from our secondary market services: Technology Services Capital markets software licences and related IT infrastructure, network connection and server hosting services: and Other Includes events and media services.
The Executive Committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
138 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Sales between segments are carried out at arms length and are eliminated on consolidation.
Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2018 are as follows: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 841 487 102 407 65 9 1,911 Inter-segmental revenue 1 21 22 Revenue 841 487 103 407 86 9 22 1,911 Net treasury income through CCP business 175 43 218 Other income 6 6 Total income 841 662 146 407 86 15 22 2,135 Cost of sales 70 123 7 16 9 2 227 Gross profit 771 539 139 391 77 13 22 1,908 Share of loss after tax of associate 1 7 8 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment 469 304 92 201 18 5 13 1,066 Underlying depreciation, amortisation and impairment 29 62 9 17 20 2 4 135 Operating profit loss before non-underlying items 440 242 83 184 2 7 9 931 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 159 Other non-underlying items 21 Operating profit 751 Net finance expense 66 Profit before tax from continuing operations 685 Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered of 1,837 million 2017: 1,668 million and Technology Services of 65 million 2017: 91 million.
Net treasury income through CCP businesses of 218 million 2017: 162 million comprises gross interest income of 1,025 million 2017: 813 million less gross interest expense of 807 million 2017: 651 million.
During the year the Group recognised a total of 106 million 2017: 74 million of net treasury income on financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost comprising 732 million 2017: 559 million gross treasury income and 626 million 2017: 485 million gross treasury expense, and 112 million net gain 2017: 88 million net loss on assets held at fair value comprising 293 million 2017: 254 million fair value gain and 181 million 2017: 166 million fair value loss.
Presented within revenue are net settlement expenses from the CCP business of 2 million 2017: 1 million expense which comprise gross settlement income of 24 million 2017: 22 million less gross settlement expense of 26 million 2017: 23 million.
The Groups revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated by segment, major product and service line, and timing of revenue recognition for the year ended 31 December 2018 is shown below: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Other Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers Major product & service lines FTSE Russell Indexes 631 631 Real time data 94 94 Other information services 116 116 Clearing 487 41 528 Settlement, custody and other 61 61 Primary capital markets 113 113 Secondary capital markets Equities 169 169 Secondary capital markets Fixed income, derivatives and other 125 125 Capital markets software licences 65 65 Other 9 9 Total revenue from contracts with customers 841 487 102 407 65 9 1,911 Timing of revenue recognition Services satisfied at a point in time 45 479 93 237 2 8 864 Services satisfied over time 796 8 9 170 63 1 1,047 Total revenue from contracts with customers 841 487 102 407 65 9 1,911 The disaggregated revenue table presented above for the year ended 31 December 2018 is a new requirement as a result of the Group adopting IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018.
The Group has used the modified retrospective approach to transition to IFRS 15 and therefore no comparative disclosures are presented.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 139 Notes to the financial statements continued Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 736 432 109 391 91 9 1,768 Inter-segmental revenue 1 20 21 Revenue 736 432 110 391 111 9 21 1,768 Net treasury income through CCP business 120 42 162 Other income 10 15 25 Total income 736 562 152 391 111 24 21 1,955 Cost of sales 62 88 17 16 29 3 215 Gross profit 674 474 135 375 82 21 21 1,740 Share of loss after tax of associates 9 9 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment 400 245 82 194 5 1 12 915 Underlying depreciation, amortisation and impairment 17 51 11 14 7 6 3 103 Operating profit loss before non-underlying items 383 194 71 180 2 5 9 812 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 153 Other non-underlying items 33 Operating profit 626 Net finance expense 62 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 564 Geographical disclosures 2018 2017 m m Revenue from external customers UK 1,092 999 USA 348 276 Italy 316 316 France 109 106 Other 46 71 Total 1,911 1,768 2017 1 2018 revised m m Non-current operating assets UK 1,149 1,107 USA 2,226 2,119 Italy 1,271 1,284 France 61 58 Other 154 155 Total 4,861 4,723 1.
Refer to Note 33 for further details Non-current operating assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment in associates.
140 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 6.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2018 2017 Notes m m Underlying items Employee costs 7 510 497 IT costs 136 120 Other costs 188 199 Operating expenses before depreciation, amortisation and impairment 834 816 Underlying depreciation, amortisation and impairment 14, 15 135 103 Total operating expenses 969 919 Other costs include foreign exchange gains of 5 million 2017: 17 million loss.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: 2018 2017 Note m m Salaries and other benefits 387 368 Social security costs 62 64 Pension costs 19 25 27 Share-based compensation 36 38 Total 510 497 Staff costs include the costs of contract staff who are not on the payroll, but fulfil a similar role to employees.
The average number of employees in the Group from total operations was: 2018 2017 UK 1,628 1,532 USA 659 626 Italy 612 573 France 166 165 Sri Lanka 1,025 1,094 Other 315 751 Total 4,405 4,741 Average staff numbers are calculated from the date of acquisition for subsidiary companies acquired in the year and up to the date of disposal for businesses disposed in the year.
The Company had no employees in the year 2017: nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 141 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Non-underlying items 2018 2017 Notes m m Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14, 15 159 153 Transaction costs 9 25 Restructuring costs 7 Integration costs 12 8 Profit on disposal of businesses 7 Total affecting operating profit 180 186 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 33 184 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 11 2 Tax effect on other items 11 4 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 55 190 Total charge credit to continuing operations income statement 125 4 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 11 25 Total charge to income statement 125 21 During the year the Group incurred a 154 million 2017: 153 million amortisation charge in relation to purchased intangible assets and 5 million 2017: nil asset write-off expense comprising 3 million software see Note 15 and 2 million IT hardware see Note 14 work in progress assets which are no longer required for development as a result of the integration of Yield Book into the Group.
Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for services relating to potential merger and acquisition transactions.
Integration costs in the current and prior year relate to the activities to integrate the Mergent and Yield Book businesses into the Group.
In the prior year, the Group incurred restructuring costs in relation to the LCH Group.
In the prior year, the Group disposed of Information Services Professional Solutions ISPS a business line of BIt Market Services S. p. A, for a cash consideration of 10 million 9 million.
The profit on disposal was 5 million, and the net assets disposed contained brands, intellectual property and work-in-progress assets, used for carrying out the ISPS business along with identified agreements with suppliers and clients and employment relationships.
The remaining 2 million profit on disposal in the prior year related to the sale of the Millennium Enterprise Systems Integration business, a business that formed part of the Technology Services segment and the MillenniumIT cash generating unit, for cash consideration of 5 million.
The loss after tax on discontinued operations in the prior year relates to the disposal of the Russell Investment Management business.
See Note 11 for further details.
Further details on the recognition of deferred tax in relation to the amortisation of purchased intangible assets are provided in Note 18.
Net finance expense 2018 2017 Notes m m Finance income Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 19 1 Bank deposit and other interest income 8 3 Other finance income 4 5 13 8 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 72 63 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 19 1 2 Other finance expenses 6 5 79 70 Net finance expense 66 62 Bank deposit and other interest income includes negative interest earned on the Groups borrowings.
Interest payable includes amounts where the Group earns negative interest on its cash deposits.
During the year the Group recognised a total of 66 million 2017: 60 million of net interest expense on financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, comprising 12 million 2017: 8 million gross finance income and 78 million 2017: 68 million gross finance expense.
Presented within finance income and finance expense are amounts in relation to defined benefit pension schemes which are measured at fair value.
142 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 10.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 19% 19.25% for the year ended 31 December 2017.
2018 2017 Taxation charged to the income statement Note m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 53 76 Overseas tax for the year 107 95 Adjustments in respect of previous years 12 10 148 161 Deferred tax: 18 Deferred tax for the year 15 9 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2 10 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 33 184 Taxation charge credit 132 22 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns submitted to relevant tax authorities.
2018 2017 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 5 8 5 8 Deferred tax credit charge : Tax on defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement 5 25 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 2 4 Tax on movement in value of investments in financial assets 4 2 16 11 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2017: 19.25% as explained below: 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation from continuing operations 685 564 Loss before taxation from discontinued operations 23 685 541 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 130 104 Income not taxable expenses not deductible 7 9 Adjustment arising from change in tax rates 2 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 25 10 Adjustments in respect of previous years 10 Adjustment arising from changes in tax rates on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 2 147 Deferred tax previously not recognised 4 2 132 20 Income tax from continuing operations 132 22 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 2 The UK Finance Bill 2016 was enacted in September 2016, reducing the standard rate of corporation tax further to 17% effective from 1 April 2020.
Accordingly, the UK deferred tax balances at December 2018 have been stated at 19% or 17% dependent on when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax balances in other countries are recognised at the substantively enacted rates at the balance sheet date.
Uncertain tax positions The Group does not have any uncertain tax positions as at 31 December 2018.
In the prior year an amount of 2 million was provided for in respect of uncertain tax positions in relation to an uncertainty arising from the introduction of UK Diverted Profits Tax.
The Group no longer considers this amount to be uncertain.
EU State Aid The Group is monitoring developments in relation to the EUs ongoing State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company CFC regime and whether the rules constitute unlawful State Aid.
The Group has made claims under the CFC legislation for practical reasons, however given that the Groups financing activities are properly established and operated in accordance with EU and local law as well as the OECDs transfer pricing guidelines, we do not anticipate any significant impact should a finding of unlawful State Aid be ultimately upheld.
Therefore, the Group does not currently consider that any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
The Group will continue to monitor the position as the review develops.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 143 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale On 17 January 2018, the Group completed the sale of Exactpro Systems Limited and its subsidiaries Exactpro for an aggregate consideration of 6 million, comprising a purchase price of 3 million and an unconditional waiver on 3 million of deferred consideration payable to the Exactpro purchasers recognised on the acquisition of Exactpro by the Group.
A total of 6 million of Exactpro assets were disposed and comprised goodwill, property, plant and equipment, trade receivables, cash and accumulated foreign exchange translation reserve.
The Exactpro business was part of the Technology Services segment and was contained within a standalone CGU.
Exactpro was classified as a disposal group held for sale in the Groups 31 December 2017 balance sheet.
Discontinued operations As previously reported, on 31 May 2016 the Group completed the sale of the Russell Investment Management business to TA Associates and Reverence Capital Partners for US$1,150 million 794 million total consideration, of which US$150 million consideration was deferred and payable in cash instalments until 31 December 2022.
In the prior year, the Group incurred a non-underlying loss before tax of US$29 million 23 million loss after tax of US$31 million 25 million relating to the disposal of the Russell Investment Management business comprising a US$21 million 17 million adjustment to the disposal balance sheet relating to tax balances at the disposal date and an US$8 million 6 million reduction to the net proceeds received on disposal as a result of the finalisation of the completion statement, which resulted in a US$2 million 2 million cash payment by the Group.
During the prior year, the Group also recognised US$18 million 13 million current tax and other receivables in relation to the disposed business.
The disposal accounting and final tax position will be finalised on completion of the relevant tax returns.
There were no cash flows generated or incurred by discontinued operations from operating, investing or financing activities in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on 4 bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of all outstanding share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2018 2017 Total Continuing Discontinued Total Basic earnings per share 138.3p 153.6p 7.2p 146.4p Diluted earnings per share 136.0p 150.1p 7.1p 143.0p Adjusted basic earnings per share 173.8p 148.7p 148.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 170.8p 145.3p 145.3p Profit and adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders: 2018 2017 Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m Profit loss for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders 480 530 25 505 Adjustments: Non-underlying items: Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 159 153 153 Transaction costs 9 25 25 Restructuring costs 7 7 Integration costs 12 8 8 Profit on disposal of businesses 7 23 16 Other adjusting items: Tax effect of amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items 55 190 2 188 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-underlying items and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 2 13 13 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Company's equity holders 603 513 513 Weighted average number of shares million 347 345 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 6 8 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 353 353 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the Employee Benefit Trust and treasury shares held by the Group.
144 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 13.
Dividends 2018 2017 m m Final dividend for 31 December 2016 paid 31 May 2017: 31.2p per Ordinary share 109 Interim dividend for 31 December 2017 paid 19 September 2017: 14.4p per Ordinary share 50 Final dividend for 31 December 2017 paid 30 May 2018: 37.2p per Ordinary share 129 Interim dividend for 31 December 2018 paid 18 September 2018: 17.2p per Ordinary share 60 189 159 Dividends are only paid out of available distributable reserves.
The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 of 43.2p per share, which is estimated to amount to 150 million, to be paid in May 2019.
This is not reflected in the financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment Land & Buildings Fixed plant, other plant and Freehold Leasehold equipment Total Cost: m m m m 31 December 2016 51 50 172 273 Additions 47 47 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 2 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of business 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1 1 Transfers 2 2 3 1 Foreign exchange 1 2 1 31 December 2017 51 52 216 319 Additions 5 8 44 57 Disposals 5 4 9 Write-off 2 2 Transfers 3 3 Foreign exchange 1 1 31 December 2018 55 55 251 361 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 31 December 2016 28 34 103 165 Charge for the year 3 23 26 Impairment 1 1 Disposal of business 2 2 31 December 2017 29 37 124 190 Disposals 5 4 9 Charge for the year 4 27 31 31 December 2018 29 36 147 212 Net book values: 31 December 2018 26 19 104 149 31 December 2017 22 15 92 129 As at 31 December 2018, the Group held no items of equipment under finance leases 2017: nil.
Transfers relate to reclassification of property, plant and equipment to other asset classes and reallocations of work in progress assets between property, plant and equipment types.
During the year the Group incurred a 2 million 2017: nil asset write-off expense presented as a non-underling item in the Groups consolidated income statement in relation to IT hardware work in progress which is no longer required for development as a result of the integration of Yield Book into the Group.
The Company has no property, plant and equipment 2017: nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 145 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets Software, licences and Customer intellectual Software and Goodwill relationships Brands property other Total Cost: m m m m m m 31 December 2016 2,097 1,732 971 434 502 5,736 Acquisition of subsidiaries revised 288 151 57 168 11 675 Additions 143 143 Disposal of business 1 8 9 Disposals 15 3 12 9 39 Reclassification to assets held for sale 3 3 Transfer of asset 1 1 Foreign exchange 4 20 65 6 14 81 31 December 2017 revised 2,377 1,848 960 584 652 6,421 Impact of adopting new accounting standard Note 2 26 26 1 January 2018 restated 2,377 1,848 960 584 678 6,447 Additions 187 187 Disposals 6 14 4 24 Transfer of asset 3 3 Write-off 5 5 Foreign exchange 70 50 45 12 13 190 31 December 2018 2,447 1,892 1,005 582 872 6,798 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 31 December 2016 500 482 122 277 231 1,612 Amortisation charge for the year 90 38 25 76 229 Disposal of business 6 6 Disposals 15 3 12 9 39 Foreign exchange 21 9 6 1 11 36 31 December 2017 as previously presented 521 566 151 291 303 1,832 Impact of adopting new accounting standard Note 2 14 14 1 January 2018 restated 521 566 151 291 317 1,846 Amortisation charge for the year 91 39 24 102 256 Impairment 1 1 Disposals 6 14 4 24 Write-off 1 1 Foreign exchange 7 11 7 3 5 33 31 December 2018 528 662 197 304 420 2,111 Net book values: 31 December 2018 1,919 1,230 808 278 452 4,687 31 December 2017 revised 1,856 1,282 809 293 349 4,589 Goodwill During the current year, the Group completed the exercise of attributing fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities acquired in the Yield Book business combination.
As a result, final fair value adjustments have been made to the previously presented provisional fair values for Yield Book at 31 December 2017 arising from a reduction in the value of purchase consideration of 1 million and an increase in other receivables of 1 million.
The impact of these final fair value adjustments resulted in a decrease in goodwill of 1m to amounts previously disclosed in our 31 December 2017 Annual Report, reducing the total goodwill on acquisition of the Yield Book business from 215 million to 214 million.
The impact of these final fair value adjustments have been incorporated with effect from the acquisition date of the Yield Book business and the comparative 31 December 2017 balance sheet and related notes have been revised.
The revised total goodwill arising on acquisition of the Mergent and Yield Book businesses is 289 million.
In the prior year, the Group disposed of the Millennium Enterprise Systems Integration business, which resulted in a reduction of 1 million in goodwill.
In the prior year, the Group classified Exactpro as a disposal group held for sale which resulted in 3 million of goodwill being reclassified as an asset held for sale.
Further details are provided in Note 11.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, LCH Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT, the US Information Services Group and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets 2017: none.
146 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Purchased intangible assets The fair values of the purchased intangible assets were principally valued using discounted cash flow methodologies and are being amortised over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years.
The Groups purchased intangible assets include: Customer relationships These assets have been recognised on acquisition of major subsidiary companies by the Group.
The amortisation period remaining on these assets are between 8 to 24 years.
Brands Brands have been recognised in a number of major acquisitions, including FTSE, LCH, Russell and Yield Book.
Included within brands are trade names relating to the acquisition of Frank Russell Group of 583 million 2017: 574 million.
The remaining amortisation period on these assets are between 4 to 24 years.
Software, licences and intellectual property These assets have been recognised on acquisition of subsidiary companies and have a remaining amortisation period of 3 to 19 years.
There are no other individual purchased intangible assets with a carrying value that is considered material to each asset class.
Software and other As a part of the business operating model the Group develops technology solutions where software products are developed internally, for use within the Group or to sell externally.
The cost of self-developed software products in the year includes 133 million 2017: 94 million representing assets not yet brought into use.
No amortisation has been charged on these assets and instead they are tested for impairment annually.
During the year, additions relating to internally generated software amounted to 175 million 2017: 143 million.
Following a review of software assets, the Group has recognised net write-offs of 4 million in relation to assets not yet brought into use and 1 million impairment.
The 5 million income statement charge comprises 3 million non-underlying asset write-off expense, 1 million underlying write-off expense and 1 million underlying impairment charge 2017: nil.
Other amounts represent the internally built and developed trading systems within the various business lines, licences and capitalised contract costs.
In general these assets have a useful economic life of up to 5 years.
The carrying value of licences held under finance leases at 31 December 2018 was 6 million 2017: 7 million.
During the year, the Group capitalised 10 million of incremental contract costs in respect of revenue generating contracts with customers and recognised a 6 million amortisation charge relating to contract cost assets.
No impairment was recognised in the year in relation to contract cost assets.
Transfers in the year relate to 3 million reclassification of property, plant and equipment to software intangible assets.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 147 Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 10 cash generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using discounted cash flow forecasts based on business plans prepared by management for a 3-year period ending 31 December 2021, and then projected for a further 2 years to 31 December 2023.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount rate used in value in use calculations 31 December Foreign 31 December 2017 Reallocation exchange 2018 m m m m 2018 2017 Italian Group: Capital Markets 257 142 6 405 12.3% 12.6% Information Services 142 142 12.7% Technology Services 23 1 24 10.5% 11.4% Post Trade Services 437 6 443 13.2% 13.4% MillenniumIT 1 1 20.0% 20.7% Turquoise 9 9 9.7% 9.7% FTSE Group 191 191 9.6% 10.1% LCH Group 126 2 128 10.4% 10.4% US Information Services Group: Frank Russell Group 399 30 429 10.5% 11.9% Yield Book revised 204 13 217 10.5% 9.5% Mergent 67 5 72 10.0% 14.0% 1,856 63 1,919 During the year the Group reassessed the Italian Groups cash generating units and concluded that the previously reported Information Services Italian CGU was no longer operating on a standalone basis and generating independent cash inflows.
This resulted in the transfer of 142 million into the Italian Capital Markets CGU.
Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long-term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions are based on the business plans prepared by management for a 3-year period ending 31 December 2021.
The assumptions are derived from an assessment of current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience.
These factors are considered in conjunction with the Groups long-term strategic objectives to determine appropriate short and medium growth assumptions.
Long-term growth rates assumed to be 1.9% for each of the Italian CGUs 2017: 1.6%, 9.0% for MillenniumIT 2017: 9.4%, 3.9% for each of the US Information Services CGUs 2017: 3.8% and 3.5% for the other CGUs 2017: 3.7% represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation analysis for the 10-year period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2023, and do not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, France, Sri Lanka, USA and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed, management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long-term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
Management believes goodwill allocated to each CGU is unlikely to be materially impaired under reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 2018.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a 5% change in revenues or costs for each of the 5 years in the value in use calculations.
148 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 16.
Investment in associates Group Company m m 31 December 2016 3 8 Acquisitions and investments 11 9 Share of loss after tax 9 Impairment 14 31 December 2017 5 3 Acquisitions and investments 28 12 Share of loss after tax 8 Impairment 8 31 December 2018 25 7 During 2018, the Group acquired a 15.9% equity interest in AcadiaSoft, Inc. a provider of margin automation solutions, for US$22 million 16 million cash consideration.
The Group also made additional investments in Curve Global for 12 million cash consideration, which maintained the Groups equity interest at 43.38%.
During the prior year, the Group increased its equity interest in Curve Global to 43.38% through a non-cash contribution of 9 million and acquired a 27.35% equity interest in The Hub Exchange Limited, a provider of enterprise-grade platforms for investment networks, for 2 million cash consideration.
Investment in subsidiary companies Shares Other Total Company m m m 31 December 2016 4,362 1,003 5,365 Investment in LSE Group Holdings Italy Limited 94 94 Investment in LSEG US Holdco Inc 297 297 Investment in LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 328 328 Other movements 14 14 31 December 2017 5,081 1,017 6,098 Investment in London Stock Exchange C Limited 382 382 Investment in London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited 10 10 Investment in LSEGH US PT, Inc. 16 16 31 December 2018 5,489 1,017 6,506 Other includes amounts invested in subsidiary companies by way of capital contributions and awards granted under the Groups share schemes.
Country of % Country of principal equity and Principal subsidiaries: Principal activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange England and England and 100 Wales Wales Held indirectly by the Company: Banque Centrale fide Compensation LCH SA CCP clearing services France France 73.45 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP clearing services Italy Italy 99.99 Elite S. p. A.
Business support programme Italy Italy 74.99 Frank Russell Company Market indices provider USA USA 100 FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider England and England and 100 Wales Wales LCH Limited CCP clearing services England and England and 82.61 Wales Wales Mergent, Inc. Business and financial information provider USA USA 100 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and centralised custody Italy Italy 98.87 Millennium IT Software Private Limited IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 MTS S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 62.53 The Yield Book, Inc.
Fixed income indices and analytics USA USA 100 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multilateral trading facility England and England and 51.36 Wales Wales Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries is provided in Note 38.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 149 Notes to the financial statements continued Material non-controlling interests The LCH Group is the only subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests within the Group.
On 23 February 2018 the Group acquired an additional 2.04% interest of LCH Group Holdings Limited from non-controlling interests for cash consideration of 35 million 31 million.
This increased the Groups holding to 67.97%.
On 17 December 2018, the Group acquired a further 14.64% for cash consideration of 425 million 382 million, increasing the Groups holding in LCH Group Holdings Limited to 82.61%.
Both amounts have been recognised as movements within non-controlling interests in the statement of changes in equity.
2018 2017 Summarised financial information for material non-controlling interests m m Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 63 49 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 65 77 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests in the year 37 11 2018 2017 Summarised balance sheet m m Non-current assets 548 542 Current assets 684,787 621,814 Current liabilities 684,071 621,125 Non-current liabilities 41 89 Total equity 1,223 1,142 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 967 721 Non-controlling interests 256 421 1,223 1,142 The balances above include goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation, impairments and deferred tax attributable to non-controlling interests.
Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 87 62 The summarised total comprehensive income of the LCH Group is provided below.
This information is based on amounts excluding goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
2018 2017 Summarised statement of total comprehensive income m m Total income 662 561 Profit for the year 188 139 Other comprehensive loss income excluding exchange on translation of foreign operations 15 38 Total comprehensive income excluding exchange translation of foreign operations 173 177 Gains on translation of foreign operations 16 35 Total comprehensive income 189 212 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 124 127 Non-controlling interests 65 85 189 212 Subsidiaries exempt from audit The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Company Name Registration number London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited 6795362 London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited 7378551 London Stock Exchange C Limited 7943990 London Stock Exchange Group Services Limited 9313935 LSEG M Financing Limited 10532155 FTSE Australia Limited 6182374 FTSE International France Limited 3793705 FTSE International Italy Limited 6858736 FTSE Japan Limited 4511214 LSEG Employment Services Limited 9100833 SSC Global Business Services Limited 7584392 LSEG Technology Limited 7484865 Gatelab Limited 6606847 150 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 18.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions Accelerated deferred and other tax tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 31 December 2016 8 671 26 637 Transfer between categories 4 4 Deferred tax recognised on acquisition of businesses 1 23 4 20 Tax credited charged to the income statement 3 184 4 183 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit scheme remeasurement gain 25 25 investments in equity instruments under IAS 39 2 2 foreign exchange 1 26 27 Allowance on share options awards to equity 4 4 Disposal of business 2 2 31 December 2017 9 484 11 464 Impact of adopting new accounting standards Note 2 23 23 1 January 2018 restated 9 484 34 441 Tax credited charged to the income statement 2 33 15 16 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit scheme remeasurement gain 5 5 movements in debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 4 4 foreign exchange 19 19 Allowance on share options awards to equity 2 2 31 December 2018 7 470 30 433 Assets at 31 December 2018 7 35 42 Liabilities at 31 December 2018 470 5 475 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2018 7 470 30 433 Assets at 31 December 2017 9 29 38 Liabilities at 31 December 2017 484 18 502 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2017 9 484 11 464 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than 1 year.
The net deferred tax asset of 30 million 2017: 11 million in respect of provisions and other temporary differences relates to assets on share-based payments of 15 million 2017: 14 million, retirement benefits liabilities of 10 million 2017: 15 million, interest payable of 15 million 2017: nil, assets on trading losses of 8 million 2017: 5 million, withholding tax liabilities on distributable reserves of subsidiary companies of 4 million 2017: 5 million and assets on other provisions and temporary differences of 6 million 2017: 12 million.
The purchased intangible assets of the acquired subsidiaries create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the purchased intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 17 million 2017: 18 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company 2017: nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 151 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
In the UK, the defined benefit scheme is administered by trustees with the assets primarily being managed by Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited, Ruffer LLP, Schroder Investment Management Limited, and a buy-in insurance asset with Pension Insurance Corporation.
On 5 September 2016, the London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan LSERP and the LCH Pension Scheme in the UK LCH UK underwent a sectionalised merger into a new London Stock Exchange Group Pension Scheme LSEGPS.
The scheme maintains separate LCH and LSE Sections.
The assets of the LSEGPS are held by the trustees who are responsible for the schemes governance.
The schemes are invested in a wide range of assets in the UK and overseas, which seek to balance risk and investment return, through investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian Group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and other pension commitments of the LCH Group outside of the UK.
The only schemes operated by FTSE International and US entities are defined contribution schemes recorded in Other plans.
All schemes are governed by the local regulatory framework and employment laws in the country in which they operate.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
Defined benefit schemes United Kingdom The LSE section of LSEGPS was a non-contributory defined benefit scheme that closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the LSERP also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits already accrued for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
The LCH section of LSEGPS was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
It was closed to further employee contributions and accrual of future benefits from 31 March 2013 with the defined contribution section remaining open until April 2017, when the Legal & General mastertrust was provided to all UK employees.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
Overseas LCH Group also operates retirement indemnity and long-service award schemes in Paris, for which the scheme obligations are calculated by an independent qualified actuary.
They also operate an independent defined benefit scheme in Porto, assumed in 2006.
Updated valuations of these funds are carried out by an independent qualified actuary.
The TFR operated by the Italian Group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91% of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75% of national life price index 1.5% by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than 5 years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
The principal risks to which the defined benefit schemes expose the Group arises from an increase in pension liability.
The pension liabilities could increase in the following circumstances: if increases in the plan liabilities are not accompanied by corresponding increases in the plan assets: if investment returns are lower than assumed in assessing the adequacy of plans: if inflation is higher than expected, increasing liabilities through indexing of pension payments: and the risk that members live longer than expected, increasing the length of time for which pensions have to be paid, potentially due to a medical breakthrough.
Such an increase in pension liabilities could lead to an increase in pension deficit.
Defined benefit schemes are normally revalued by actuaries every 3 years.
Where any material funding gap is identified by this process, the Trustees will agree a schedule of contributions with the sponsor company.
Such contributions would result in financial impact to the Group.
In addition, with regard to the LSE Section of LSEGPS, the Group is exposed to the credit of the buy-in insurance provider.
A failure of the buy-in insurance provider would reduce the pension assets and could thus also lead to a pension deficit or an increase in pension deficit and the need for contributions from the Group.
152 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Defined contribution schemes In the UK, the only pension scheme open to employees is a defined contribution scheme, provided by Legal & General.
Following a pension consultation, from April 2017, all UK employees are eligible to participate in the same pension scheme.
A core contribution of 8% of basic salary is paid by the Group, who will also match employee contributions up to 4% of basic salary.
Amounts recognised in the income statement from continuing operations are as follows: 2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total Notes m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 4 4 10 18 5 4 9 18 Defined benefit scheme current past service cost and expenses 1 6 7 1 1 7 9 Total pension charge included in employee costs 7 5 4 16 25 6 5 16 27 Net finance expense income 9 1 1 2 2 Total recognised in the income statement 6 3 16 25 8 5 16 29 Defined benefit assets obligations for pension schemes 2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities Quoted 62 62 66 66 Not quoted 42 42 48 48 Bonds Quoted 14 17 1 32 15 17 1 33 Not quoted 140 121 261 148 131 279 Property 6 6 5 5 Cash 15 2 17 4 2 6 Pensioner buy-in policy 180 180 184 184 Total fair value of assets 355 244 1 600 356 264 1 621 Present value of funded obligations 361 198 17 576 376 208 17 601 Deficit surplus 6 46 16 24 20 56 16 20 As at 31 December 2018, the Group has recognised a net defined benefit asset of 46 million 2017: 56 million asset in relation to the LCH UK scheme on the basis that the Group has access to the surplus in the event of wind-up of the scheme and therefore no asset ceiling has been applied to the net surplus recognised.
Further, no minimum funding commitments are associated with the plan.
UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK LSERP LCH UK Inflation rate RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.1% 3.2% Inflation rate CPI 2.0% 2.0% 1.9% 2.0% Rate of increase in salaries 3.2% n a 3.1% n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 2.2% 3.6% 2.2% Discount rate: Non-insured 3.0% 3.0% 2.7% 2.8% Insured 2.7% n a 2.7% n a Life expectancy from age 60 years Non-retired male member 28.1 28.1 28.3 28.2 Non-retired female member 30.6 30.5 30.6 30.5 Retired male member 27.2 27.5 27.3 27.6 Retired female member 29.4 29.2 29.4 29.3 The mortality assumptions are based on S2PA tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CMI 2017 projections and applied a 1.25% for the male and female long-term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSERP and LCH UK scheme obligations are: 2018 2017 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Impact on scheme obligations LSERP LCH UK LSERP LCH UK Inflation rate CPI and salary increase Increase by 0.5% Increase by 3m Increase by 6m Increase by 7m Increase by 6m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase by 0.5% Increase by 21m Increase by 11m Increase by 24m Increase by 13m Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Reduce by 24m Reduce by 19m Reduce by 29m Reduce by 22m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 14m Increase by 6m Increase by 14m Increase by 6m London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 153 Notes to the financial statements continued The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligations as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The impact of the salary increase assumption as a standalone sensitivity has an immaterial impact on the scheme obligations.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations during the year 2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation as at beginning of year 376 208 17 601 410 253 16 679 Pension expense: Past current service cost 1 6 7 7 7 Interest cost 10 6 16 11 7 18 Subtotal included in the income statement 11 6 6 23 11 7 7 25 Remeasurement gains losses: Actuarial gains financial assumptions 10 8 1 19 9 11 1 21 Actuarial gains demographic assumptions 3 3 13 11 24 Actuarial losses gains experience 3 1 4 6 22 28 Subtotal included in total comprehensive income 10 7 1 18 28 44 1 73 Benefits paid 16 9 5 30 17 7 5 29 Foreign exchange 1 1 Benefit obligation as at end of year 361 198 17 576 376 208 17 601 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the year 2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at beginning of year 356 264 1 621 350 255 1 606 Pension income: Interest income 9 7 16 9 7 16 Subtotal included in the income statement 9 7 16 9 7 16 Remeasurement loss gains: Loss return on plan assets, excluding interest income 9 21 30 11 9 20 Subtotal included in total comprehensive income 9 21 30 11 9 20 Contributions by employer 15 3 18 4 4 Expenses 1 1 Benefits paid 16 9 25 17 7 24 Fair value of scheme assets as at end of year 355 244 1 600 356 264 1 621 The actual loss on plan assets was 14 million 2017: gain 36 million.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
2018 2017 LSERP LCH UK Other plans LSERP LCH UK Other plans m m m m m m Recognised up to beginning year 29 44 1 68 9 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 1 14 1 39 53 1 Cumulative amount recognised at end of year 28 30 2 29 44 1 The last actuarial valuations of the UK defined benefit scheme were carried out as at 31 December 2017 by an independent qualified actuary.
According to the schedule of contributions of these valuations, LSE plc has funded its defined benefit scheme deficit 14 million in 2018 and is expected to pay 14 million per annum into the LSE Section in years 2019 to 2022, and LCH Limited is expected to pay 3 million per annum into the LCH Section in years 2019 to 2022.
The weighted average duration of the LSERP defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is estimated to be 21 years and 11.5 years for non-insured and insured, respectively.
The weighted average duration of the LCH UK defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is estimated to be 24 years.
154 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 20.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company 31 December 2018 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets at fair assets at fair Financial assets at fair assets at value through value through assets at value through amortised cost OCI profit or loss Total amortised cost profit or loss Total m m m m m m m Financial assets Clearing member financial assets: Clearing member trading assets 138,153 604,303 742,456 Other receivables from clearing members 2,261 2,261 Other financial assets 19,694 19,694 Clearing member cash and cash equivalents 70,927 70,927 Clearing member business assets 211,341 19,694 604,303 835,338 Trade and other receivables 621 621 622 622 Cash and cash equivalents 1,510 1,510 6 6 Investments in financial assets 84 84 Contract assets 144 144 Total 213,616 19,778 604,303 837,697 628 628 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
Prepayments within trade and other receivables are not classified as financial instruments.
Group Company 31 December 2018 Financial Financial liabilities at liabilities at Financial fair value Financial fair value liabilities at through profit liabilities at through profit amortised cost or loss Total amortised cost or loss Total m m m m m m Financial liabilities Clearing member financial liabilities: Clearing member trading liabilities 138,153 604,303 742,456 Other payables to clearing members 93,052 93,052 Clearing member business liabilities 231,205 604,303 835,508 Trade and other payables 510 10 520 402 402 Borrowings 2,203 2,203 2,186 2,186 Derivative financial instruments 47 47 47 47 Total 233,918 604,360 838,278 2,588 47 2,635 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
Social security and other tax liabilities within trade and other payables, and contract liabilities are not classified as financial instruments.
The financial instruments of the Group and Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company 31 December 2017 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets at fair assets at fair Financial assets at fair assets at value through value through assets at value through amortised cost OCI profit or loss Total amortised cost profit or loss Total m m m m m m m Financial assets Clearing member financial assets: Clearing member trading assets 98,076 549,874 647,950 Other receivables from clearing members 3,303 3,303 Other financial assets 18,436 3,665 22,101 Clearing member cash and cash equivalents 61,443 61,443 Clearing member business assets 162,822 18,436 553,539 734,797 1 Trade and other receivables revised 703 703 646 646 Cash and cash equivalents 1,381 1,381 4 4 Investments in financial assets 105 105 Derivative financial instruments 4 4 4 4 Total 164,906 18,541 553,543 736,990 650 4 654 1.
The 31 December 2017 comparatives have been revised for IFRS 3 fair value adjustments on the acquisition of the Yield Book business There were no transfers between categories during the prior year.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 155 Notes to the financial statements continued Group Company 31 December 2017 Financial Financial liabilities at liabilities at Financial fair value Financial fair value liabilities at through profit liabilities at through profit amortised cost or loss Total amortised cost or loss Total m m m m m m Financial liabilities Clearing member financial liabilities: Clearing member trading liabilities 98,076 549,874 647,950 Other payables to clearing members 87,031 87,031 Clearing member business liabilities 185,107 549,874 734,981 Trade and other payables 502 18 520 275 275 Borrowings 1,953 1,953 1,921 1,921 Derivative financial instruments 29 29 29 29 Total 187,562 549,921 737,483 2,196 29 2,225 Deferred income, social security and other tax liabilities within trade and other payables are not classified as financial instruments.
Financial liabilities as at 31 December 2017 have been re-presented to exclude provisions, which are no longer classified as a financial liability.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2018: Group 31 December 2018 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: Clearing member trading assets: Derivative instruments 4,958 8 4,966 Non-derivative instruments 5 599,332 599,337 Other financial assets 19,694 19,694 Fair value of clearing member business assets 24,657 599,340 623,997 Investments in financial assets 84 84 The Company had derivative assets of nil 2017: 4 million.
All derivatives assets in the Company were cross-currency swaps and were classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Group 31 December 2018 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Clearing member trading liabilities: Derivative instruments 4,958 8 4,966 Non-derivative instruments 5 599,332 599,337 Fair value of clearing member business liabilities 4,963 599,340 604,303 Deferred consideration 10 10 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross-currency interest rate swaps 47 47 The Company had derivative liabilities of 47 million 2017: 29 million.
All derivative liabilities in the Company are the same as for the Group.
156 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017: Group 31 December 2017 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: Clearing member trading assets: Derivative instruments 5,834 1,557 7,391 Non-derivative instruments 14 542,469 542,483 Other financial assets 22,101 22,101 Fair value of clearing member business assets 27,949 544,026 571,975 Investment in financial assets debt 105 105 Derivatives designated as hedges: Cross-currency interest rate swaps 4 4 Group 31 December 2017 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: Clearing member trading liabilities: Derivative instruments 5,834 1,557 7,391 Non-derivative instruments 14 542,469 542,483 Fair value of clearing member business liabilities 5,848 544,026 549,874 Deferred consideration 18 18 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross-currency interest rate swaps 29 29 The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting date.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2, the fair value is calculated using one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach with market observable inputs.
The selection of the appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of the relevant inputs as well as the reliability of the inputs.
The inputs may include currency rates, interest rate and forward rate curves and net asset values.
The results of the application of the various techniques may not be equally representative of fair value, due to factors such as assumptions made in the valuation.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the current and prior period.
When observable market data is not available, the Group uses one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
These inputs used in estimating the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments include expected timing and level of future cash flows, timing of settlement, discount rates and net asset values of certain investments.
The Group has classified deferred consideration in relation to put options over the non-controlling interests of subsidiaries as Level 3 in the hierarchy for determining the fair value, due to the significant inputs used in the valuation that are not based on observable data.
The valuation of the deferred consideration is set out in the terms of the option agreement, where the cash flow forecasts of the underlying business over the deferred consideration payment period are discounted at the Groups pre-tax cost of debt.
The key inputs into the valuation of the deferred consideration are cash flow forecasts over a 5-year period from the date of acquisition and the discount rate.
During the year, the Group made a fair value gain of 8 million on deferred consideration liabilities classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, as a result of the revaluation of the amounts due.
For the remaining deferred consideration liabilities classified as Level 3 as at 31 December 2018, a 10% increase or decrease in the total cash flows or a 1% change in the discount rate applied would not have a material effect on the valuation of the amounts payable.
The Group does not consider there to be any alternative assumptions that will be used in the valuation of the liability.
With the exception of Group borrowings, management has assessed that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities categorised as Financial assets at amortised cost and Financial liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is disclosed in Note 27.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The nature and composition of the clearing member assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies section in Note 1.
As at 31 December 2018, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the clearing members financial assets 2017: nil and none of these assets were past due 2017: nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 157 Notes to the financial statements continued Hedging activities and derivatives In September 2017, the Group issued 1 billion of bonds in two 500 million tranches maturing in 2024 and 2029.
At the same time 700 million worth of these bonds was swapped on a coordinated basis into US$836 million through a series of 9 cross-currency interest rate swaps.
These instruments effectively exchange some of the principal and coupon amounts of the 2024 and 2029 500 million bonds from Euros into US Dollars in order to more closely match the Groups currency of borrowings to the currency of its net assets and earnings.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in its US Dollar reporting subsidiaries and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
These swaps have been recognised at fair value as non-current financial liabilities of 17 million 2017: 4 million asset at 31 December 2018.
The remaining 300 million of bonds outstanding provide a hedge of the Groups net investments in Euro denominated subsidiaries and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
Current derivative financial liabilities of 30 million 2017: 29 million represent the fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps comprising 6 contracts totalling 300 million notional 2017: 300 million.
These instruments effectively exchange the obligations and coupons of the 2019 250 million bond from Sterling into Euros in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of net assets and earnings.
This also results in a reduction in balance sheet translation exposure on Euro denominated net assets and the protection of Sterling cash flows.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian Group and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group recognised a net 22 million loss on mark to market of these derivatives in reserves 2017: 5 million loss.
Through the financial year the Company drew on its committed bank facilities in Euro and US Dollars and issued Euro denominated Commercial Paper.
These drawings and issuances were designated as hedges of the Groups net investment in Euro and US Dollar denominated subsidiaries.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group recognised a net 33 million revaluation loss on Euro and US Dollar borrowings in the Company in reserves 2017: 8 million gain.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of Euro and US Dollar denominated exposures.
These contracts forward buy and sell payables and receivables denominated in Euros and US Dollars, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the revaluation of the underlying hedged item in the income statement.
They also offer more predictable cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 December 2018, payables of 34 million 2017: 19 million and US$43 million 2017: US$10 million, and receivables of US$69 million 2017: nil were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the derivatives was nil 2017: nil in aggregate.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: Gross Amount Net amount as 31 December 2018 amounts offset reported m m m Other financial assets 867,201 859,535 7,666 Repurchase agreements 823,180 88,390 734,790 Total assets 1,690,381 947,925 742,456 Other financial liabilities 892,461 884,795 7,666 Reverse repurchase agreements 823,180 88,390 734,790 Total liabilities 1,715,641 973,185 742,456 The impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 is as follows: Gross Amount Net amount as 31 December 2017 amounts offset reported m m m Other financial assets 980,465 973,067 7,398 Repurchase agreements 729,833 89,281 640,552 Total assets 1,710,298 1,062,348 647,950 Other financial liabilities 1,000,100 992,702 7,398 Reverse repurchase agreements 729,833 89,281 640,552 Total liabilities 1,729,933 1,081,983 647,950 All offset amounts are held in Clearing member trading assets and Clearing member trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 742,456 million 2017: 647,950 million to nil.
158 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 22.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m 1 Notes revised Non-current Deferred consideration 28 52 Amounts due from Group companies 36 25 37 Other receivables 2 3 30 55 25 37 Current Trade receivables 432 326 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 11 21 Trade receivables net 421 305 Amounts due from Group companies 36 525 566 Amounts due from associates 36 1 Group relief receivable 68 41 Deferred consideration 28 51 Other receivables 141 136 4 2 Prepayments 53 41 3 1 2 Accrued income 156 644 689 600 610 Total 674 744 625 647 The carrying amount of the Groups current trade and other receivables, including 141 million 2017: nil of the Groups current contract assets presented in Note 23, are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 m m 1 revised Sterling 361 217 Euro 117 157 US Dollar 288 297 Other currencies 19 18 785 689 1.
Refer to Note 33 for further details.
On adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, accrued income is now referred to as contract assets which are presented in Note 23.
Movements in the Groups provision for expected credit losses on trade receivables are as follows: 2018 2017 Note m m 31 December as previously reported 21 13 Adoption of new accounting standard 2 10 1 January restated 11 13 Provision for impairment of receivables 2 10 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1 2 Amounts recovered in the year 1 31 December 11 21 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 159 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Contract assets 2018 m Non-current 3 1 Contract assets 3 Current 141 1 Contract assets 141 Total 144 1.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, contract assets were previously referred to as accrued income and presented in Note 22.
Contract assets primarily relate to the Groups rights to consideration for work completed but not invoiced at the reporting date.
During the year, the Group recognised no impairment losses in relation to contracts assets.
Changes to the Groups contract assets during the year were as follows: 2018 Note m 1 January 2 156 Amounts billed in the period 153 Services provided in the period 138 Foreign exchange 3 31 December 144 The contract asset tables presented above for the year ended 31 December 2018 are a new requirement as a result of the Group adopting IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Cash at bank 701 578 1 4 Short-term deposits 809 803 5 1,510 1,381 6 4 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short-term deposits and AAA-rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by the CCPs on behalf of their clearing members.
At 31 December 2018, cash and cash equivalents shown above include 1,120 million 2017: 1,042 million of amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
Total amounts set aside for regulatory and operational purposes include current investments in financial assets of 53 million 2017: 19 million and non-current investments in financial assets of 31 million 2017: 86 million.
All amounts are subject to regular reviews with regulators in the UK, France and Italy.
Trade and other payables Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note m m m m Non-current Deferred consideration 38 Other non-current payables 11 11 11 49 Current Trade payables 52 50 1 Amounts owed to Group companies 36 366 251 Social security and other taxes 29 23 Other payables 102 128 22 16 Accruals 355 293 13 8 1 Deferred income 104 538 598 402 275 Total 549 647 402 275 1.
On adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, deferred income is now referred to as contract liabilities and are presented in Note 26 160 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26.
Contract liabilities 2018 m Non-current 1 Contract liabilities 118 118 Current 1 Contract liabilities 153 153 Total 271 1.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, contract liabilities were previously referred to as deferred income and presented in Note 25 Contract liabilities primarily relate to the consideration received from customers for which services have not yet been rendered.
Changes in the Groups contract liabilities balances during the year were as follows: 2018 Notes m 31 December 2017 as previously presented 25 104 Adoption of new accounting standards 2 140 1 January 2018 restated 2 244 Revenue recognised in the income statement 134 Increases due to consideration received excluding amounts recognised as revenue during the year 160 Foreign exchange 1 31 December 2018 271 We estimate that the Groups contract liabilities will be recognised in the following periods after 31 December 2018: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Group m m m m m m Less than 1 year 99 1 3 48 2 153 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 78 78 More than 5 years 40 40 Contract liabilities as at end of year 99 1 3 166 2 271 The contract liability tables presented above for the year ended 31 December 2018 are a new requirement as a result of the Group adopting IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018.
Borrowings Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current Bank borrowings 41 522 24 490 Commercial paper 270 270 Bonds 250 250 561 522 544 490 Non-current Bonds 1,642 1,431 1,642 1,431 1,642 1,431 1,642 1,431 Total 2,203 1,953 2,186 1,921 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 161 Notes to the financial statements continued The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Carrying value Interest rate at 31 percentage at December 31 December Notes Facility 2018 2018 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2022 600 42 LIBOR 0.45 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Dec 2023 600 1 LIBOR 0.3 Total Committed Bank Facilities 41 1 Commercial paper Jan 2019 270 270 0.260 Bond due October 2019 Oct 2019 250 250 9.125 Bond due November 2021 Nov 2021 300 300 4.750 Bond due September 2024 Sep 2024 451 449 0.875 Bond due December 2027 Dec 2027 451 446 1.750 Bond due September 2029 Sep 2029 451 447 1.750 Total Bonds 1,892 Total Committed Facilities and Unsecured Notes 2,203 1.
The Commercial paper interest rate reflected is the average interest rate achieved on the outstanding borrowings The carrying values of drawn bank facilities, commercial paper and bonds at 31 December 2018 were 41 million 2017: 522 million, 270 million 2017: nil and 1,892 million 2017: 1,431 million, respectively.
Current borrowings The Group retained total committed bank facilities of 1,200 million during the financial year.
The 5-year 600 million facility arranged in December 2017 was extended for a year to December 2023, with a further 1-year extension option available to the Group, subject to lender approval.
These facilities were partially drawn at 31 December 2018 with carrying value of 41 million 2017: 522 million which includes 2 million of deferred arrangement fees 2017: 3 million.
In February 2018, the Group commenced issuance under its newly arranged 1 billion Euro Commercial Paper Programme.
Outstanding issuances at 31 December 2018 of 300 million 270 million 2017: nil may be reissued upon maturity in line with the Groups liquidity requirements.
In June 2009, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors, which were unchanged at A3 and Arespectively.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125% per annum throughout the financial year.
Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged commercial bank back-up credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totaled 420 million at 31 December 2018 2017: 420 million, for overnight and longer durations to broaden its liquidity resources consistent with requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
LCH SA has a French banking licence and is able to access refinancing at the European Central Bank to support its liquidity position.
LCH Limited is deemed to have sufficient fungible liquid assets to maintain an appropriate liquidity position, and has direct access to certain central bank facilities to support its liquidity risk management in accordance with the requirements under the EMIR.
In accordance with the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures CPMI, International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO and Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures PFMIs, many Central Banks now provide for CCPs to apply for access to certain Central Bank facilities.
In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day-to-day liquidity requirements across its operations.
Non-current borrowings In November 2012, the Company issued a 300 million bond under its Euro Medium Term Notes Programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75% per annum.
In September 2017, the Company issued 1 billion of bonds in two 500 million 451 million tranches under its updated Euro Medium Term Notes Programme.
The bonds are unsecured and the tranches are due for repayment in September 2024 and September 2029 respectively.
Interest is paid annually in arrears in September each year.
The issue prices of the bonds were 99.602 per 100 nominal for the 2024 tranche and 99.507 per 100 nominal for the 2029 tranche.
The coupon on the respective tranches is fixed at 0.875% per annum and 1.75% per annum respectively.
In December 2018, the Company issued a 500 million 451 million bond under its updated Euro Medium Term Notes Programme.
The bond is unsecured and due for repayment in December 2027.
Interest is paid annually in arrears in December each year.
The issue price was 99.547 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 1.75% per annum.
162 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 561 561 522 522 after more than 1 year 1,642 1,914 1,431 1,520 2,203 2,475 1,953 2,042 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 544 544 490 490 after more than 1 year 1,642 1,914 1,431 1,520 2,186 2,458 1,921 2,010 Borrowings are classified as Level 2 in the Groups hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments.
The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over the appropriate inter-bank reference rate.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 572 270 302 1,032 267 765 Euro 1,631 361 1,270 921 355 566 US Dollar 631 631 622 622 Total 2,203 2,203 1,953 1,953 The carrying amounts of the Companys borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 572 270 302 1,032 267 765 Euro 1,614 361 1,253 889 355 534 US Dollar 631 631 622 622 Total 2,186 2,186 1,921 1,921 28.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Due within 1 year Cash and cash equivalents 1,510 1,381 6 4 Bank borrowings 41 522 24 490 Commercial paper 270 270 Bonds 250 250 Derivative financial liabilities 30 30 919 859 568 486 Due after 1 year Bonds 1,642 1,431 1,642 1,431 Derivative financial assets 4 4 Derivative financial liabilities 17 29 17 29 Total net debt 740 597 2,227 1,942 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 163 Notes to the financial statements continued Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the year 84 216 1 3 Bond issue proceeds 445 885 445 885 Redemption of preferred securities 157 Commercial paper issuance 255 255 Additional drawdowns from bank credit facilities 242 215 Repayments made towards bank credit facilities 489 87 474 2 Utilisation of drawn funds for financing activities 103 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 127 564 225 1,101 Foreign exchange movements 4 2 40 2 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 22 6 22 6 Bond valuation adjustment 3 5 3 5 Movement in bank credit facility arrangement fees 1 1 1 1 Reclassification of cash to assets held for sale 1 Net debt at the start of the year 597 34 1,942 839 Net debt at the end of the year 740 597 2,227 1,942 29.
Provisions Property Other Total Group m m m 1 January 2018 10 10 Utilised during the year 1 1 Unwinding of discount on provision 1 1 Provisions no longer required 1 1 Additional charge in the year 1 2 3 31 December 2018 10 2 12 Current 1 1 2 Non-current 9 1 10 31 December 2018 10 2 12 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between 1 and 10 years to expiry.
Other provisions primarily relate to the expected costs arising on the restructuring and integration of the Mergent and Yield Book businesses into the Group.
The Company has no provisions 2017: nil.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number of Ordinary Share 1 shares shares premium Total millions m m m 1 January 2017 350 24 961 985 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 3 3 31 December 2017 350 24 964 988 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 1 1 1 31 December 2018 351 24 965 989 79 86 1.
Ordinary Shares of 6 pence 79 86 The Board approved the allotment and issue of 72,763 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at a weighted average exercise price of 2,042 pence to the 79 86 Employee Benefit Trust 2017: 224,965 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at 1,251 pence, to settle employee Save As You Earn share plans.
This generated a premium of 1 million 2017: 3 million.
Included within the current year Ordinary Share Capital of 351 million shares are 2 million treasury shares, recorded at par.
164 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 31.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Notes m m m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 685 564 112 18 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 11 23 Profit before tax 685 541 112 18 Adjustments for depreciation, amortisation and impairments: Depreciation and amortisation 14,15 287 255 Impairment of software 15 5 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 14 2 1 Adjustments for other non-cash items: Profit on disposal of businesses 8 7 Loss on disposal of investment in subsidiary 11 23 Gain on disposal of financial assets 7 Other gains on disposal of assets 2 Share of loss of associates 16 8 9 Impairment of investment in associate 16 8 14 Net finance expense 9 66 62 61 45 Share scheme expense 7 36 38 Royalties 3 Movement in pensions and provisions 19 31 Net foreign exchange differences 30 103 52 1 Dividend income 36 320 142 Movements in working capital: Decrease in inventories 1 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables and contract assets 107 36 38 30 Increase decrease in trade and other payables and contract liabilities 3 47 66 47 Movement in other assets and liabilities relating to operations: Increase in clearing member financial assets 101,678 162,005 Increase in clearing member financial liabilities 101,646 162,095 Movement in derivative assets and liabilities 2 6 22 6 Unrealised gain on the revaluation of financial assets 3 Cash generated from operations 969 852 39 17 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 978 1,130 46 30 Non-underlying items 9 278 7 13 969 852 39 17 Movement in financial liabilities arising from financing activities: As at Foreign 31 December 1 January 2018 Cash flows exchange Other 2018 m m m m m Bank borrowings 522 489 7 1 41 Bonds 1,431 445 18 2 1,892 Commercial paper 255 15 270 Finance lease liabilities 7 2 5 Derivative financial instruments 25 22 47 1,985 209 40 21 2,255 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 165 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Commitments and contingencies The Group and Company have no contracted capital commitments or any other commitments not provided for in the financial statements as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
In the normal course of business, the Group and the Company receive legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and other matters.
Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Group or the Company, a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
33. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2018 There were no business combinations during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2017 The Group made 2 acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Mergent On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Mergent, a leading global provider of business and financial information on public and private companies, for total cash consideration of US$147 million 119 million.
The acquisition will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering, supplying underlying data and analytics for the creation of a wide range of indexes.
On completion of the fair value exercise in the prior year, the Group recognised 74 million of goodwill and 69 million of purchased intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Mergent.
Yield Book On 31 August 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of the Yield Book business, a leading global provider of fixed income indexes and analytics.
The cash consideration paid by the Group at completion was US$679 million 525 million.
The acquisition enhances and complements LSEGs Information Services data and analytics offering, building on FTSE Russells US market presence and fixed income client base globally.
In the prior year, the Group recognised 215 million in provisional goodwill and the provisional fair value of net assets identified was 310 million, including 307 million of other intangible assets.
Subsequent to the year ended 31 December 2017, the purchase price exercise was finalised whereby the Group received 3 million US$4 million cash consideration from the vendor and resulted in a 1 million reduction in the total purchase consideration paid by the Group on acquisition of the Yield Book business.
The 3 million US$4 million cash consideration received in the year ended 31 December 2018 was offset against a 2 million other receivable already recognised within the provisional fair values reported on the Groups balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
A final fair value adjustment for an additional 1 million other receivable was recognised in the acquisition balance sheet compared to the provisional fair value amounts previously presented in our 31 December 2017 Annual Report.
Consequently, the Group recognised a 1 million decrease in goodwill from amounts previously disclosed at 31 December 2017, bringing the total goodwill on acquisition of the Yield Book business to be 214 million.
166 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 34.
Leases Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group leases various office properties under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property 2018 2017 Leases expiring in: m m Less than 1 year 35 33 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 126 111 More than 5 years 60 54 221 198 Operating lease payments of 33 million 2017: 32 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 2018 2017 Leases expiring in: m m Less than 1 year 4 5 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 11 13 More than 5 years 2 3 17 21 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance lease contracts for certain distribution licences.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2018 2017 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 4 4 3 3 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 1 1 4 4 Total minimum lease payments 5 5 7 7 Less amounts representing finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments 5 5 7 7 The Company has no lease commitments 2017: none.
Finance lease commitments Group as lessor The Group and Company has no finance lease contracts as a lessor 2017: none.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 167 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Share schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2014 AGM, has 2 elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares the latter element is not applicable to executive directors.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 100.
Awards are granted at nil cost to employees.
The SAYE Option Scheme and International Sharesave Plan SAYE Scheme provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value during the year.
The Group has an employee benefit discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end, 573,672 2017: 944,495 shares were held by the trust, funded in part by an interest-free loan from the Group and in part by the issue of 72,763 2017: 224,965 shares and transfer of 1,359,900 2017: 1,757,774 shares held in treasury.
The Company has no employees but, in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the employee benefit trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
168 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Number life Number life outstanding Years outstanding Years Share options Between 8 and 9 1,676 1,676 SAYE Between 10 and 20 4,788 Between 20 and 30 188,218 0.1 414,144 0.5 More than 30 604,769 1.6 448,941 1.5 LTIP Nil 4,794,922 1.2 5,438,872 1.3 Total 5,589,585 1.3 6,308,421 1.4 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the BlackScholes model was used.
The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical 3-year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 169 Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Transactions with related parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2018 2017 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 11 13 Pensions 1 1 Share-based payments 14 21 26 35 Other directors interests One director has a 40.5% 2017: 45% equity interest in Quantile Technologies Limited who are an approved compression service provider for the Groups LCH Limited subsidiary.
The Group operated a commercial arrangement with Quantile Technologies Limited and all transactions were carried out on an arms length basis.
During the year there was no income or expenses recognised as part of the agreement 2017: nil.
Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loans with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 December 2018 are shown in the table below: Amount owed to Interest due from as at Interest charge credit rate as at Loan counterparty 2018 2017 Term 31 December 2018 2018 2017 London Stock Exchange plc 198 m 130 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 5 m 3 m five equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange 25m 37m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest Employee Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group 11 m Fifth anniversary of the EURIBOR plus 1 m Holdings Italy Limited initial utilisation date 1.5% per annum which was April 2018.
London Stock Exchange Group 226m 240m Tenth anniversary of LIBOR plus 12m 10m Holdings Limited the initial utilisation date 4.0% per annum which was October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group Tenth anniversary of LIBOR plus US$ 1 m Holdings Limited the initial utilisation date 4.0% per annum which was October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group 1 m Tenth anniversary EURIBOR plus Holdings Limited of the initial utilisation date 4.0% per annum which was October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Reg 1m Fifth anniversary EURIBOR plus Holdings Limited of the initial utilisation date 1.2% per annum which was July 2018.
London Stock Exchange Reg 20m 20m Fifth anniversary LIBOR plus Holdings Limited of the initial utilisation date 1.2% per annum which was July 2018.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 19m Fifth anniversary EURIBOR plus of the initial utilisation date 1.5% per annum which was May 2017.
London Stock Exchange Group US$ 24 m US$ 4 m Fifth anniversary LIBOR plus 1.5% per US$ 3 m Holdings Luxembourg Ltd of the initial utilisation date annum which was December 2014.
LSEG Employment Services Limited 137m 111m Fifth anniversary LIBOR plus 1.2% per 2m 1m of the initial utilisation date annum which was January 2015.
London Stock Exchange Group 71m 67m Fifth anniversary LIBOR plus 0.9% per 2m Services Limited of the initial utilisation date annum which was January 2016.
During the year, the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 9 million 2017: 10 million to LSEG Employment Services Limited, 5 million 2017: 6 million to LCH Group, 5 million 2017: 6 million to the London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia S. p. A. group of companies, 3 million 2017: 2 million to the FTSE Group, 7 million 2017: 5 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings, Inc. 5 million 2017: 8 million to London Stock Exchange plc, 1 million 2017: 1 million to Millennium Group and 1 million 2017: nil million to other subsidiaries of the Group.
During the year the Company received dividends of 163 million from LSE Group Holdings Italy Ltd and 157 million from LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd.
The Company recognised 7 million income 2017: 32 million and 61 million expenses 2017: 49 million with Group undertakings in relation to corporate recharges.
At 31 December 2018, the Company had 67 million 2017: 106 million other receivables due from Group companies and other payables of 144 million 2017: 116 million owed to Group undertakings.
Transactions with associates In the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group recognised 1 million revenue 2017: 4 million from its associates and as at 31 December 2018, the Group had 1 million receivable from its associates 2017: nil.
All transactions with subsidiaries and associates were carried out on an arms length basis.
170 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 37.
Events after the reporting period On 30 January 2019 the Group acquired a 4.92% equity interest in Euroclear Holding SA NV share capital for 242 million.
The transaction was funded from existing cash and debt facilities.
On 25 February 2019 the Group acquired a 7.3% equity interest in Nivaura Limited for 2 million, a UK-based fintech specialising in developing end-to-end automation and distributed ledger technology solutions for capital raising and administration.
Other statutory information Auditors remuneration payable to Ernst and Young LLP and its associates comprises the following: 2018 2017 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Audit of subsidiary companies 2 2 Non-audit services 1 1 Total 4 4 Ernst and Young LLP provided non-audit services of 0.6 million: 15% of total fees 2017: 0.6 million: 15% of total fees.
This comprised of audit related assurance services of 0.5 million 2017: 0.5 million and other non-audit services of 0.1 million 2017: 0.1 million.
Further details of the services provided by Ernst and Young LLP are given in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 7479.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2018 2017 m m Salary and fees 3 3 Performance bonus 2 3 Gains made on share awards 3 7 Benefits 1 1 9 14 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 1 9 15 During the year, no Directors 2017: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and 1 Director 2017: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 100.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 171 Notes to the financial statements continued Related undertakings A list of the Groups subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018 is given below including the percentage of each class held and the Groups ownership percentages.
The share ownership percentage records the percentage of each subsidiarys share capital owned within the LSEG Group.
Shares owned directly by LSEG plc are listed as being a direct shareholding, shares owned by other LSEG Group companies are listed as an indirect group interest shareholding.
Where more than 1 LSEG Group company owns shares in a subsidiary these interests have been added together.
The ultimate economic interest percentage on the other hand does not show actual share ownership.
It records LSEG plcs effective interest in the subsidiary, allowing for situations where subsidiaries are owned by partly owned intermediate subsidiaries.
All subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Identity of LSEG plc each class of ultimate share held in Share economic the subsidiary Direct or ownership interest Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address undertaking indirect holding % % BANQUE CENTRALE fide France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, Ordinary Indirect 88.91 73.45 COMPENSATION LCH SA 75002, Paris, France group interest BIt Market Services S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 99.99 99.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Bondclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Milano, Ordinary Indirect 99.99 99.99 Lombardia, Italy group interest Cassa Di Compensazione e Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, 00186 Rome, Italy Ordinary Indirect 100 99.99 Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G group interest CommodityClear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Elite Club Deal Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 74.99 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Elite S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 75 74.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Elite SIM S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 100 74.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Equityclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest EuroMTS Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 62.53 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 70 69.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest ForexClear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Frank Russell Company United States c o United Agent Group Inc. West 505 Riverside Common Indirect 100 100 Avenue #500, Spokane, Spokane County, WA, group interest 99201, United States FTSE Australia Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE Beijing China Room 02D-H, 6 F Dongwai Diplomatic Building, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Consulting Limited 23 Dongzhimenwai Dajie, Beijing, China group interest FTSE Japan Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE Americas, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 15 North Mill Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Nyack, Rockland County, NY, 10960, United States group interest FTSE China Index Ltd Hong Kong 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Central Hong Kong group interest FTSE Fixed Income LLC United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Member Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle Interest group interest County, fide, 19810, United States FTSE Global Debt Capital Canada Suite 2400, 333 Bay Street, Toronto, ON, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Markets, Inc. M5H 2T6, Canada group interest FTSE Global Debt Capital England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, England Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Markets Limited and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE International England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 France Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE International Hong Kong 6th Floor Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Hong Kong Limited Central Hong Kong group interest FTSE International England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Italy Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE International United Arab Emirates Unit 15501, Level 15, Gate Building, DIFC, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 MEA Ltd PO Box 121208, Dubai, United Arab Emirates group interest FTSE International Brasil Brazil Edificio Argentina, Praia fide Botafogo 228, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Representacoes LTDA 16 andar, Sala1617, Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil group interest FTSE International Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest 172 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Identity of LSEG plc each class of ultimate share held in Share economic the subsidiary Direct or ownership interest Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address undertaking indirect holding % % FTSE International Taiwan Taiwan 12F, No.
Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited Taipei City.
Taiwan group interest FTSE Mexico Sociedad fide Mexico Paseo fide los Tamarindos 400, 5 piso, Col.
Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Responsabilidad Limitada Bosques fide las Lomas, Mexico City, group interest fide Capital Variable C. P. 05120, Mexico Gatelab Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Gatelab S. r. l. Italy Via dei Pentri, 161, 86170, Isernia, Italy Ordinary Indirect 100 100 group interest globeSettle S. A. Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 L-1273.
Luxembourg group interest International Commodities England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 Clearing House Limited London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Intrinsic Research United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary A Indirect 100 100 Systems, Inc. Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Ordinary B Indirect 100 100 group interest LCH Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Non-voting group interest Ordinary 82.61 Voting LCH.
Clearnet LLC United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Units Indirect 100 82.61 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, Delaware, 19810, United States LCH GP Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH Pensions Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH PLP Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest London Stock Exchange C England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Ordinary Direct 100 London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Partnership Indirect 100 100 Connectivity Solutions LP England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Services Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings Italy Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings R Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Milano, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Group Holdings Italia S. p. A. Lombardia, Italy group interest London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 LEI Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest London Stock Exchange Plc England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Reg Holdings Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG M Financing England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Business Services Sri Lanka Trace Expert City, Maradana, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Colombo Private Limited Colombo 10, Sri Lanka group interest LSEG Business Services England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG ELT Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Business Services Romania 6F Iuliu Maniu Blvd, Building 6.1, 3rd 4th floor, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 RM S. R. L District 6, Bucharest, Romania group interest LSEG Employment England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Services Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Information United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Services US, Inc. Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 173 Notes to the financial statements continued Identity of LSEG plc each class of ultimate share held in Share economic the subsidiary Direct or ownership interest Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address undertaking indirect holding % % LSEG Ireland Limited Ireland 10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin Ordinary Indirect 100 100 D02 T380, Ireland group interest LSEG Ireland 2 Limited Ireland 1 Stokes Place, St Stephen's Green, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Dublin 2, D02 DE03, Ireland group interest LSEG Ireland 3 Limited Ireland 1 Stokes Place, St Stephen's Green, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Dublin 2, D02 DE03, Ireland group interest LSEG LuxCo 1 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, L-1273 Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Luxembourg group interest LSEG LuxCo 2 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, L-1273 Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Luxembourg group interest LSEG Malaysia Sdn.
Malaysia Level 19-1, Menara Milenium Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, group interest W. P. Kuala Lumpur, 50490, Malaysia LSEG Pension England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Trustees Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Technology England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG US Holdco, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Common Direct 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle County, fide, 19810, United States LSEGH I LLC United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States LSEGH Luxembourg England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEGH, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States LSEGH US PT, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Common Direct 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle County, fide, 19810, United States March fide TitreS France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, Ordinary Indirect 100 62.53 France MTS France 75002, Paris, France group interest M-CCP Holdings, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States M-CCP Parent, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Mergent Japan K. K. Japan 1-5-1, Otemachi First Square East Tower 11F, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 1-5-1 group interest Mergent, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Millennium Information India 83 - C, Mittal Towers, Nariman Point, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Technologies India Mumbai - 400 021, India group interest Private Limited Millennium IT USA, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Common Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Millennium IT Services Sri Lanka 65 2, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Private Limited Colombo 02, Sri Lanka group interest Millennium IT Software Canada Suite 2400, 333 Bay Street, Toronto, Common Indirect 100 100 Canada, Inc. Ontario, Canada group interest Millennium IT Software Sri Lanka No.
01 Millennium Drive, Malabe, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Private Limited Sri Lanka group interest Monte Titoli S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 98.88 98.87 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest MTS S. p. A. Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, 00186 Rome, Italy Ordinary Indirect 62.53 62.53 group interest MTS Markets United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 62.53 International, Inc. Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States MTSNext Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Repoclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest 174 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Identity of LSEG plc each class of ultimate share held in Share economic the subsidiary Direct or ownership interest Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address undertaking indirect holding % % SSC Global Business England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Services Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Stock Exchange Holdings England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited The England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest SwapAgent Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Swapclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest The London Clearing England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 House Limited London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest London Produce Clearing England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 82.61 House Limited The London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest The London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Retirement Plan Trustee England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Company Limited The Yield Book, Inc. United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Common Indirect 100 100 Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Turquoise Global Holdings Netherlands 679, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam, Ordinary Indirect 100 51.36 Europe B. V. 1017DV, Netherlands group interest Turquoise Global Holdings England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary A Indirect 100 51.36 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Ordinary B Turquoise Global United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Ordinary Indirect 100 51.36 Holdings US, Inc. Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Turquoise SwapMatch England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary A Indirect 100 51.36 Limited England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Ordinary B 100 Unavista Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest UnaVista TRADEcho B. V. Netherlands 679, Keizersgracht, Amsterdam, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 1017DV, Netherlands group interest Yield Book Software United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Member Indirect 100 100 BRE LLC Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle Interest group interest County, fide, 19810, United States Yield Book Tangible United States c o United Agent Group Inc. 3411 Silverside Road Member Indirect 100 100 Property BRE LLC Tatnall Building #104, Wilmington, New Castle Interest group interest County, fide, 19810, United States The Groups associate undertakings were: Identity of Share each class of ownership % Group share held in held by the ultimate the subsidiary Direct or Parent economic Associate name Country of incorporation Registered office address undertaking indirect holding Company interest % AcadiaSoft, Inc. United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Convertible Indirect 15.67 15.67 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Preferred group interest New Castle, 19801 United States Curve Global Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary A Direct 46.90 43.38 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS Ordinary B MTS Associated Markets S. A. Belgium Rue des Comdiens, 16-22, Ordinary Indirect 23.30 14.57 1000 Brussels, Belgium group interest The Hub Exchange Limited England and Wales 843 Finchley Road, London, Ordinary Indirect 30.03 22.52 England and Wales, group interest NW11 8NA London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 175
