LondonMetric Property Plc 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer waseffected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot of the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Registered equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 number 7124797 will be held at The Connaught, Carlos of the 2006 Act up to a maximum nominal amount Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL on 11 July 2018 at 10.00 am.
of 46,495,670 such amount to be reduced by any Relevant Securities allotted or granted under Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary paragraph 16a above provided that this authority resolutions and resolutions 17 to 20 inclusive will be may only be used in connection with a rights issue proposed as special resolutions.
in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other 1.
That the Annual Report and Audited Financial persons entitled to participate therein where the Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 be equity securities respectively attributable to the considered and approved.
interests of all those persons at such record date as the Directors may determine are proportionate 2.
That the Annual Report on Remuneration in the form as nearly as may be to the respective numbers set out in the Annual Report and Audited Financial of equity securities held by them or are otherwise Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to be approved.
such equity securities subject to such exclusions or 3.
That Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor of the other arrangements as the Directors may consider Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next necessary or expedient to deal with fractional general meeting at which accounts are laid before entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of the Company.
any territory or the requirements of a regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being 4.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the represented by depositary receipts or any other remuneration of the auditor.
That Patrick Vaughan be re-elected as a Director.
provided that the authorities in paragraphs 16a and 6.
That Andrew Jones be re-elected as a Director.
16b shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing 7.
That Martin McGann be re-elected as a Director.
of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date which is 8.
That Valentine Beresford be re-elected as a Director.
15 months after the date of this Annual General Meeting, except that the Company may before such 9.
That Mark Stirling be re-elected as a Director.
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 10.
That James Dean be re-elected as a Director.
might require Relevant Securities or equity securities as the case may be to be allotted and treasury shares to 11.
That Alec Pelmore be re-elected as a Director.
be sold after such expiry and the Directors may allot 12.
That Philip Watson be re-elected as a Director.
Relevant Securities or equity securities and sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as 13.
That Rosalyn Wilton be re-elected as a Director.
if the authority in question had not expired.
That Andrew Livingston be re-elected as a Director.
That the Directors be and are empowered, in 15.
That Suzanne Avery be elected as a Director.
accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities as dened in Section 560 1 16.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority and unconditionally authorised in accordance with conferred by resolution 16 or by way of a sale of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did in substitution for all existing authorities: not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that a. t o exercise all the powers of the Company to allot this power shall be limited to: shares and to make offers or agreements to allot a. the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or for or to convert any security into shares in the invitation to apply for, equity securities made to but Company together Relevant Securities up to an in the case of the authority conferred by paragraph aggregate nominal amount of 23,247,835 such 16b of resolution 16 above, by way of a rights amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of issue only : any equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the 2006 Act allotted under paragraph 16b i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly below in excess of 23,247,835 : and as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018149 19.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and ii t o holders of other equity securities as required unconditionally authorised, in accordance with by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors Section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases otherwise consider necessary, as permitted by within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act the rights of those securities, of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or Company ordinary shares on such terms and in restrictions and make any arrangements which they such manner as the Directors may from time to time consider necessary or appropriate to deal with any determine provided that: treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under to be purchased is 69,743,505: the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b. the minimum price which may be paid for an b. the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury ordinary share is 10p being the nominal amount shares otherwise than under paragraph 17a above thereof exclusive of expenses payable by up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,487,175, the Company : provided that this power shall expire at the conclusion c. the maximum price which may be paid for an of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the the Company cannot be more than the higher of: date of this Annual General Meeting but prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into i 1 05% of the average market value of an ordinary agreements, which would, or might, require equity share for the five business days prior to the day securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be on which the ordinary share is contracted to be sold after the authority expires and the Directors may purchased: and allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under ii t he value of an ordinary share calculated any such offer or agreement as if the authority had onthebasis of the higher of: not expired.
A. the last independent trade of: or 18.
That the Directors be and are empowered, in addition to any authority granted under resolution 17, to allot B. the highest current independent bid for, equity securities as dened in Section 560 1 of the a ny number of ordinary shares on the trading venue 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred where the market purchase by the Company will be by resolution 16 or by way of a sale of treasury shares carried out: and as if Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be: the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company a. l imited to the allotment of equity securities or sale except that the Company may before such expiry of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of make a contract to purchase its own shares which 3,487,175: and willor may be completed or executed wholly or partly b. used only for the purposes of nancing or after such expiry.
renancing, if the authority is to be used within six 20.
That the Company is authorised to call any general months after the original transaction a transaction meeting of the Company other than the Annual which the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated General Meeting by notice of at least 14 clear days by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Preduring the period beginning on the date of the passing Emption Rights most recently published by the Preof this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the Emption Group prior to the date of this notice, next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
provided that this power shall expire at the end of the By order of the Board next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the date of this Annual General Meeting but, in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter Jadzia Duzniak into agreements which would, or might, require equity Company Secretary securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold 30 May 2018 after the authority expires and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority in question had not expired.
LondonMetric Property Plc 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting: byenquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
i Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies who need not be shareholders to ix The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the attend, speak and vote on their behalf, provided that each proxy circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to the different shares Securities Regulations 2001. held by him or her.
x CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or ii Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Company or another person who has agreed to attend to does not make available special procedures in CREST for any represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must attend particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of how to appoint therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
the Chairman or another person as your proxy using the proxy form It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure iii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated that his or her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical such proxy appointment right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she limitations of the CREST system and timings.
may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement xi Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its in paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by tothe same shares.
xii You may not use any electronic address provided either in this iv To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you must hold Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents ordinary shares in the Company and your name must be entered including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company on the share register of the Company in accordance with note vi for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xiii As at 30 May 2018 being the closest practical business day before v To be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or other the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certied consisted of 697,435,054 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
copy thereof must be completed and signed and received by xiv Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the 2006 Act can Link Asset Services at PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF as soon as possible but, in any event, out any matter relating to: so as to arrive no later than 10.00 am on 9 July 2018.
A Form of a. the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Proxy accompanies this notice.
Completion and return of a report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before Form of Proxy will not preclude members from attending and the meeting: or voting at the meeting should they wish to do so.
Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would b. any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company like to change the instructions using another hard copy proxy ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, form, please contact Link Asset Services at PXS1, The Registry, 34 that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The deadline for The Company cannot require the members requesting the receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
Where two or more valid separate appointments The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of any statement that the Company has been required to publish the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as onits website.
replacing and revoking the other or others.
xv Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
vi The time by which a person must be entered on the register of The Company must cause to be answered any such question members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such is close of business on 9 July 2018.
If the meeting is adjourned, the answer need be given if: time by which a person must be entered on the register of members a. to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information: meeting is close of business on the day that is two days before the date xed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries b. the answer has already been given on a website in the form on the register of members after such times shall be disregarded ofan answer to a question: or in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at c. it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good the meeting.
order of the meeting that the question be answered.
vii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by xvi A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at www.
so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
xvii The following documents are available for inspection at the CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, registered office of the Company during normal business hours on and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service each weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on atthe place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior their behalf.
toand during the meeting: viii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means a. copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Company: and Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance b. copies of letters of appointment of Non Executive Directors: and with Euroclear UK & Irelands specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the c. a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes xviii In the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one holder the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction on a proxy card will be accepted and the vote of the senior given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, the For this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the names stand on the register of members of the Company in respect timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications of the relevant joint holding.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018151 nominal amount represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital Explanatory notes: oftheCompany as at 30 May 2018.
The information below is an explanation of the business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
Taking into account the template resolutions published by the UK Pre-Emption Group in May 2016, the authority set out in Resolution 18 is Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Audited limited to allotments or sales of up to an aggregate nominal amount of FinancialStatements 3,487,175 representing 34,871,753 shares in addition to the authority The Chairman will present the Annual Report and Audited Financial set out in Resolution 17 which are used only for the purposes of nancing Statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 to the meeting.
or renancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the Resolution 1 is to consider and approve the Report of the Directors, the original transaction a transaction which the Directors determine to financial statements and the Auditors report on the financial statements be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated and on the auditable part of the Annual Report on Remuneration by the Statement of Principles on dis-applying pre-emption rights most forthenancial year ended 31 March 2018. recently published by the UK Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of Resolution 2 Annual Report on Remuneration this Notice.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Annual Report anadditional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on Remuneration relating to the implementation of the Companys asat 30 May 2018. existing Remuneration Policy, which was approved at last years Annual The Directors also confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the General Meeting.
Section 439 of the 2006 Act requires UK-incorporated UK Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative listed companies to put their Annual Report on Remuneration to an usage of authorities within a rolling three year period where the advisory shareholder vote.
As the vote is advisory it does not affect Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% of issued ordinary share the actual remuneration paid to any individual Director.
The Annual capital of the Company excluding treasury shares should not take Report on Remuneration is set out in full in the Annual Report and place without prior consultation with shareholders, except in connection Financial Statements.
with an acquisition or specified capital investment as referred to above.
Resolutions 3 and 4 Reappointment of auditors Resolution 19 Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 3 relates to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Resolution 19 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary Companys auditor to hold office until the next Annual General Meeting shares in the market as permitted by the 2006 Act.
The authority limits the of the Company and Resolution 4 authorises the Directors to set number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 69,743,505 their remuneration.
representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary Resolutions 5 to 15 Re-election and election of Directors share capital as at 30 May 2018 and sets minimum and maximum prices.
Resolutions 5 to 15 deal with re-election and election of the Directors This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General asapplicable.
Biographies of each of the Directors seeking re-election Meeting of the Company.
and election can be found on pages 64 and 65 of the Annual Report The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to and Accounts.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, that all Directors standing for re-election or election continue review, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the toperform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their role.
Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority Resolution 16 Allotment of share capital will be exercised only after consideration by the Directors of the effect At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company the Directors were on net asset value and if the Directors believe that to do so would be given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary This authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting shares would be by means of market purchases through the London or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the date of the Annual Stock Exchange.
Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
No dividends Your Board considers it appropriate that a similar authority be granted are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum totreasury shares.
nominal amount of 23,247,835 representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 May 2018 during If Resolution 19 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, it is the the period up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Companys current intention to hold in treasury the majority of the shares the Company.
Such authority is sought in paragraph 16a of Resolution 16. it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to it.
However, in In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Investment Association, order to respond properly to the Companys capital requirements and paragraph 16b of Resolution 16 will allow Directors to allot, including prevailing market conditions, the Directors will need to reassess at the the shares referred to in paragraph 16a of Resolution 16, shares in the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in Company in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
The Company issue to shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 46,495,670, may hold a maximum of up to 10% of its issued share capital in treasury representing approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share inaccordance with guidelines issued by the Investment Association.
capital of the Company as at 30 May 2018.
As at 30 May 2018 the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, there were share awards over 7,874,111 ordinary shares in Your Board considers it appropriate to seek this additional allotment the capital of the Company representing approximately 1.13% of the authority at the Annual General Meeting in order to take advantage Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase of the exibility it offers.
However, the Board has no present intention of the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these awards exercising either authority.
If they do exercise the authority, the Directors would represent approximately 1.13% of the Companys issued ordinary intend to follow best practice as regards its use, as recommended by share capital.
As at the date of this Notice the Company does not hold any ordinary Resolution 20 Notice period for general meetings shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
It is proposed in Resolution 20 that shareholders should approve the continued ability of the Company to hold general meetings other than Resolutions 17 and 18 General and additional authority to disapply the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
pre-emption rights This resolution is required under Section 307A of the 2006 Act.
At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company the Directors were Under thatsection, a traded company which wishes to be able to call also given authority to allot equity securities for cash without first being general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
This authority days notice must obtain shareholders approval.
Resolution 20 seeks expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, such approval.
on the date which is 15 months after the date of last years Annual General Meeting.
The resolution is valid up to the next Annual General Meeting of the The passing of Resolutions 17 and 18 would allow the Directors to allot Company and needs to be renewed annually.
The Company will also equity securities or sell any shares which the Company may purchase need to meet the requirements for voting by electronic means under and hold in treasury without first offering them to existing holders in Section 307A of the 2006 Act before it can call a general meeting on proportion to their existing holdings.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for The authority set out in Resolution 17 is limited to: a allotments or sales in general meetings, but only where the exibility is merited by the business connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders securities if required by the rights of those shares: or b otherwise than asa whole.
in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,487,175 representing 34,871,753 shares.
