122 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC IMPORTANT NOTICE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 WEMBLEY STADIUM, WEMBLEY LONDON HA9 0WS Tuesday 10 July 2018 at 11am THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if you reside elsewhere, another appropriately authorised financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in the Company, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
123 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 NOTICE OF MEETING 2018 DEAR SHAREHOLDER ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM VOTING The AGM is an important day in our calendar The accompanying proxy form invites you and is the Boards opportunity to present to vote in one of three ways for each of the the Companys performance and strategy resolutions: for, against or vote withheld.
to shareholders and to listen and respond Voting on all resolutions will be by way of a to your questions.
Your vote counts whether you are able The AGM will be held at Wembley Stadium, to attend the meeting or not and we think Wembley, London, HA9 0WS.
"This venue poll voting is the most democratic approach offers superb facilities and is accessible as the proxy results are added to the votes ""I am pleased to invite by bus, rail and tube."
shareholders to the More details about the day and how to The results of the voting will be announced get there, including a map, can be found through a Regulatory Information Service 16th Annual General on page 129 of this Notice.
and will be published on our website Meeting of Marks and marksandspencer.
"com thecompany The formal Notice of Meeting follows this on 10 July 2018 or as soon as reasonably Spencer Group plc. """
The meeting will start at 11am, with practicable thereafter.
light refreshments available before the AMANDA MELLOR GROUP SECRETARY meeting and following its conclusion.
If you have already voted by proxy you will After the meeting, a lunch bag will be still be able to vote at the meeting and your provided for you to enjoy either at the vote on the day will replace your previously venue or during your onward journey.
If you cannot attend the meeting, we would In 2017, all resolutions were passed at the still like to understand the themes and meeting with votes ranging from 89.57% issues of concern to you, as shareholders.
You may send your comments by e-mail to chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com EXPLANATORY NOTES M&S WEBSITE with the heading AGM 2018.
An explanation of each of the resolutions Our corporate website, being proposed at the AGM is set out on YOUR VOTE COUNTS marksandspencer.
com thecompany, the following pages.
is the principal means we use to Your vote is important to us.
You can: communicate with our shareholders.
Register your proxy vote electronically There is a wealth of information by logging on to our Registrars website, online including: sharevote.
co. uk, or by using the service offered by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited A copy of our full Annual for members of CREST.
Report, which includes Complete and return the enclosed our Strategic Report.
All the latest M&S news, Attend and vote at the AGM.
press releases and investor presentations.
A detailed account of our approach to corporate governance at M&S.
124 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS RENEWAL OF THE POWERS OF THE BOARD TO RECEIVE THE REPORTS AND ACCOUNTS 1 TO ALLOT SHARES 15 The Board asks that shareholders receive the Strategic Report, Paragraph A of this resolution would give the directors the Directors Report, and the financial statements for the 52 weeks authority to allot ordinary shares of the Company up to an ended 31 March 2018, together with the report of the auditor.
aggregate nominal amount equal to 135,397,323 representing 541,589,293 ordinary shares of 25p each.
This amount represents approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital APPROVAL OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2 as at 21 May 2018, the latest practicable date before the publication The Directors Remuneration Report is provided on pages 50 - 62 of this Notice.
It sets out the pay and benefits received by In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association IA, each of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2018.
In line with paragraph B of this resolution would give the directors authority legislation this vote will be advisory and in respect of the overall to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour remuneration package.
of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 270,794,647 representing 1,083,178,587 ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under FINAL DIVIDEND 3 paragraph A of this resolution.
This amount before any reduction The Board proposes a final dividend of 11.9p per share for the year represents approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share ended 31 March 2018.
If approved, the recommended final dividend capital of the Company as at 21 May 2018, the latest practicable will be paid on 13 July 2018 to all shareholders who were on the Register date before the publication of this Notice.
of Members at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of this resolution will expire on the date of the AGM in 2019 or on ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 4 9 1 October 2019, whichever is sooner.
The directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities sought under this The directors believe that the Board continues to maintain an resolution except, under paragraph A, to satisfy options under appropriate balance of knowledge and skills and that all the nonthe Companys share option schemes: however, the Board wishes executive directors are independent in character and judgement.
to ensure that the Company has maximum flexibility in managing This follows a process of formal evaluation which confirms that each the Groups capital resources.
director makes an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrates commitment to the role including making As at the date of this Notice, no shares are held by the Company sufficient time available for Board and Committee meetings and in treasury.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and in line with previous years, all directors will DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION again stand for election or re-election, as relevant, at the AGM RIGHTS IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES 16 this year.
Biographies are available on pages 26 and 27 of the The directors are also seeking authority to allot ordinary shares Annual Report, with further details available on our website, for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in marksandspencer.
proportion to their existing holdings.
The power set out in resolution 16 would be limited to: APPOINTMENT OF FUTURE DIRECTORS 10 12 a allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers, or On 10 January 2018, the Company announced that Humphrey b otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 20,309,599 Singer would join the Board as Chief Finance Officer, and on 21 May representing 81,238,394 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal 2018, the market was notified of the proposed appointments of amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary Katie Bickerstaffe and Pip McCrostie as a Non-Executive Directors.
share capital of the Company as at 21 May 2018, being the latest Humphrey is an experienced Finance Director with an extensive practicable date before the publication of this Notice.
track record in finance roles in retail and brands.
In respect of the power granted under resolution 16 B, the directors Katie has wide-ranging experience of retail transformation from confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption a career in a variety of functions in leading UK retailers and Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of consumer companies.
authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% of the issued ordinary share Pip brings extensive experience of finance and transactions from capital of the Company should not take place without prior a career at Ernst & Young where she transformed and led the consultation with shareholders.
The directors have no current intention to allot shares except in The Board is pleased to recommend Humphrey, Katie and Pip for connection with employee share schemes.
election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and they will be formally appointed to the Board following their election.
The Company has issued 8,589,748 ordinary shares representing 0.53% of issued share capital over the past three years on a Biographical details are given on pages 26 and 27 of the non-pre-emptive basis.
If approved, the authority sought under this resolution will expire APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION on the date of the AGM in 2019 or on 1 October 2019, whichever OF AUDITOR 13 14 is sooner.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board proposes in resolution 13 that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
Resolution 14 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
125 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS CONTINUED AUTHORITY FOR THE COMPANY TO AUTHORITY TO MAKE PURCHASE ITS OWN SHARES 17 POLITICAL DONATIONS 19 Authority is sought for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its The 2006 Act prohibits companies from making any political issued ordinary shares, renewing the authority granted by the donations to EU political organisations or independent candidates, shareholders at previous AGMs.
or incurring EU political expenditure, unless authorised by shareholders in advance.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys own shares: however, this authority The Company does not make, and does not intend to make, would provide them with the flexibility to do so in the future, if the donations to EU political organisations or independent prevailing market conditions made such purchases in the best election candidates, nor does it incur or intend to incur any interests of shareholders generally.
Ordinary shares purchased by the Company pursuant to this However, the definitions of political donations, political authority may be held in treasury or may be cancelled.
It remains organisations and political expenditure used in the 2006 Act the Companys intention to cancel any shares it buys back rather are very wide.
As a result, this can cover activities such as than hold them in treasury.
The Company currently holds no shares sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for in treasury.
The minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may employees fulfilling certain public duties, and support for bodies be paid for an ordinary share is 25p.
The maximum price, exclusive representing the business community in policy review or reform.
of expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share is the Shareholder approval is being sought on a precautionary basis highest of: only, to allow the Company and any company which, at any time i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value for an during the period for which this resolution has effect, is a subsidiary Ordinary Share for the five business days immediately preceding of the Company, to continue to support the community and put the date of the purchase: and forward its views to wider business and government interests, without running the risk of inadvertently breaching legislation.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the The Board is therefore seeking authority to make political purchase is carried out.
donations to EU political organisations and independent election candidates not exceeding 50,000 in total and to incur EU political The Company has options outstanding over 43 million ordinary expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total.
In line with best shares, representing 2.65% of the Companys issued ordinary practice guidelines published by the IA, this resolution is put to share capital as at 21 May 2018, the latest practicable date before shareholders annually rather than every four years as required the publication of this Notice.
For the purposes of this resolution, the terms If the existing authority given at the 2017 AGM and the authority political donations, political organisations, independent election now being sought by this resolution were to be fully used, these candidate and political expenditure shall have the meanings options would represent 2.94% of the Companys ordinary share given to them in sections 363 to 365 of the 2006 Act.
capital in issue at that date.
NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING 18 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the notice period for general meetings other than an AGM is 21 clear days notice unless the Company: i has gained shareholder approval for the holding of general meetings on 14 clear days notice by passing a special resolution at the most recent AGM: and ii offers the facility for all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The Company would like to preserve its ability to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
This shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
RECOMMENDATION Resolution 18 seeks such approval and, should this resolution be Your directors believe that the proposals described above approved, it will be valid until the end of the next AGM.
This is the are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders same authority that was sought and granted at last years AGM.
as a whole and recommend you to give them your support by voting in favour of all the resolutions, as they intend to in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Yours faithfully, Amanda Mellor Group Secretary 7 June 2018 126 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC NOTICE OF MEETING 10 JULY 2018 Notice is hereby given that the Annual 13.
To resolve that Deloitte LLP be, and is directors may allot relevant securities in General Meeting of Marks and Spencer hereby, re-appointed as auditor of the pursuance of that offer or agreement as Group plc the Company will be held Company to hold office until the conclusion if the authority conferred hereby had at Wembley Stadium, Wembley, London, of the next general meeting at which not expired.
HA9 0WS on Tuesday 10 July 2018 at accounts are laid before the Company.
11am the AGM for the purposes 16.
To resolve that the Audit Committee set out below.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS determine the remuneration of the Resolutions 1 to 15 and 19 will be proposed auditor on behalf of the Board.
To resolve as a special resolution that, as ordinary resolutions, and resolutions 16 subject to the passing of resolution 15, to 18 will be proposed as special resolutions.
DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO the directors be empowered to allot equity ALLOT SHARES securities as defined in the Companies Act 1.
To receive the Strategic Report, Directors 2006 for cash under the authority given Report, and the financial statements for the To resolve that the directors be and by that resolution set out in this Notice of 52 weeks ended 31 March 2018, together are hereby authorised generally and Meeting, and or to sell ordinary shares held with the report of the auditor.
unconditionally to exercise all the powers by the Company as treasury shares for cash, of the Company to allot shares in the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 Company and to grant rights to subscribe Report.
did not apply to any such allotment or sale, for or convert any security into shares in provided that such authority be limited: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 11.9p per the Company: ordinary share.
A To the allotment of equity securities and A Up to a nominal amount of 135,397,323 sale of treasury shares in connection with To elect the following directors who are such amount to be reduced by any an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity seeking annual re-election in accordance allotments or grants made under paragraph securities but in the case of the authority with the UK Corporate Governance Code: B below in excess of such sum : and granted under paragraph B of resolution 4.
Archie Norman B Comprising equity securities as defined 15, by way of a rights issue only : in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 5.
Steve Rowe i To ordinary shareholders in proportion 2006 up to a nominal amount of as nearly as may be practicable to their 6.
Vindi Banga 270,794,647 such amount to be reduced existing holdings: and by any allotments made under paragraph 7.
Alison Brittain A above in connection with an offer by ii To holders of other equity securities 8.
Andy Halford way of a rights issue: as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise 9.
Andrew Fisher i To ordinary shareholders in proportion consider necessary, as nearly as may be practicable to their To appoint the following directors with existing holdings: and and so that the directors may impose effect from 10 July 2018 any limits or restrictions and make any ii To holders of other equity securities as 10.
Humphrey Singer arrangements which they consider required by the rights of those securities necessary or appropriate to deal with any 11.
Katie Bickerstaffe or as the directors otherwise consider treasury shares, fractional entitlements, necessary, and so that the directors may 12.
Pip McCrostie record dates, legal, regulatory or practical impose any limits or restrictions and make problems in, or under the laws of, any any arrangements which they consider territory or any other matter: and necessary or appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional entitlements, B In the case of the authority granted record dates, legal, regulatory or practical under paragraph A of resolution 15 and or problems in, or under the laws of, any in the case of any sale of treasury shares, territory or any other matter.
to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares otherwise than under The authorities conferred on the directors paragraph A above up to a nominal to allot securities under paragraphs A and amount of 20,309,599 and shall expire at B will expire on the date of the AGM of the the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2019 Company to be held in 2019 or on 1 October or on 1 October 2019, whichever is sooner 2019, whichever is sooner, unless previously unless previously revoked or varied by the revoked or varied by the Company, and such Company in general meeting, provided that authority shall extend to the making before the Company may before that date make such expiry of an offer or an agreement that To view our Board biographies go to offers, and enter into agreements, which would or might require relevant securities the Investors section of our corporate would, or might, require equity securities to to be allotted after such expiry, and the website, marksandspencer.
127 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED be allotted and treasury shares to be sold the day on which that Ordinary Share is 19.
POLITICAL DONATIONS after the authority ends and the directors contracted to be purchased: and To resolve that in accordance with section may allot equity securities and sell treasury ii the higher of the price of the last 366 of the Companies Act 2006 the shares under any such offer or agreement independent trade and the highest Company and any company which, at any as if the authority had not ended.
current independent bid on the trading time during the period for which this venues where the purchase is carried out, resolution has effect, is a subsidiary of the 17.
COMPANYS AUTHORITY TO in each case, exclusive of expenses, Company, be and are hereby authorised: PURCHASE ITS OWN SHARES such power to apply until the end of the i to make political donations to EU political To resolve as a special resolution that the AGM to be held in 2019 or until 1 October organisations or independent election Company is authorised for the purposes 2019, whichever is sooner, but in each case candidates not exceeding 50,000 in of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 so that the Company may enter into a total: and to make one or more market purchases as contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which defined in section 693 4 of the Companies ii incur EU political expenditure not will or may be completed or executed Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 25p each exceeding 50,000 in total, in each case wholly or partly after the power ends and Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: during the period commencing on the date the Company may purchase Ordinary of this resolution and ending on the date of Shares pursuant to any such contract A To a maximum number of 162m the AGM of the Company to be held in 2019 as if the power had not ended.
or on 1 October 2019, whichever is sooner.
B By the condition that the minimum price 18.
CALLING OF GENERAL MEETINGS By order of the Board which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is ON 14 DAYS NOTICE Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary 25p and the maximum price which may be 7 June 2018, London paid for an Ordinary Share is the highest of: To resolve as a special resolution that a general meeting other than an Annual Registered office Waterside House, 35 i an amount equal to 105% of the average General Meeting may be called on not North Wharf Road, London W2 1NW.
market value of an Ordinary Share for the less than 14 clear days notice.
five business days immediately preceding Registered in England and Wales No.
Biographies of the directors seeking box below the proxy holders name.
To be valid, any proxy form or other election are given in the Annual Report on also indicate if the instruction is one of instrument appointing a proxy must be pages 26 and 27, including membership of multiple instructions being given, and if a received by post during normal business the principal committees.
The terms of the proxy is being appointed for less than your hours only or by hand at Equiniti, Aspect current directors service contracts are such full entitlement, please enter the number of House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, that all executive director appointments shares in relation to which each such proxy is BN99 6DA no later than 11am on Friday may be terminated by the Company giving entitled to act in the box below the relevant 6July 2018.
12 months notice and by the individual proxy holders name.
The return of a completed proxy form, giving six months notice: non-executive accompanying this Notice assumes you other such instrument or any CREST proxy directors have agreements for service wish to vote on all your shares in the same instruction as described in paragraph 14 which can be terminated on three months way.
To vote only part of your holding or on page 128 will not prevent a shareholder notice by either party: the Chairman has to vote some shares one way and some attending the AGM and voting in person if an agreement for service which requires another, please contact the shareholder he she they wishes to do so.
six months notice by either party.
All proxy forms must be signed and should be returned together.
Indirect Shareholders: Any person to 2.
Registered Shareholders: Members are whom this Notice is sent who is a person entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or 3.
If you would like to submit your vote nominated under section 146 of the any of their rights to attend, speak and vote electronically, please visit sharevote.
co. uk, Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information on their behalf at the AGM.
Members may where there are full instructions, and submit rights a Nominated Person may, under appoint more than one proxy in relation your vote by no later than 11am on Friday 6 an agreement between him her and the to the AGM provided that each proxy is July 2018.
You are advised to read the terms shareholder by whom he she was appointed to exercise the rights attached and conditions of use.
If you return paper nominated, have a right to be appointed to a different share or shares held by that and electronic instructions, those received or to have someone else appointed as a shareholder.
A proxy need not be a last by the Registrar before 11am on Friday 6 proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person shareholder of the Company.
A proxy July 2018 will take precedence.
Electronic has no such proxy appointment right or form which may be used to make such communication facilities are available to all does not wish to exercise it, he she may, appointment and give proxy instructions shareholders and those that use them will under any such agreement, have a right to accompanies this Notice.
If you do not have not be disadvantaged.
give instructions to the shareholder as to a proxy form and believe that you should 4.
In the case of joint holders, where more the exercise of voting rights.
have one, or if you require additional proxy than one of the joint holders purports to forms to appoint more than one proxy, 8.
The statement of the rights of appoint a proxy, only the appointment please contact our shareholder helpline shareholders in relation to the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will on 0345 609 0810 or, alternatively, you may of proxies in paragraphs 2 to 6 does not be accepted.
Seniority is determined by photocopy the enclosed proxy form.
Please apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights the order in which the names of the joint indicate the number of shares in relation to described in these paragraphs can only be holders appear in the Companys register which each proxy is authorised to act in the exercised by shareholders of the Company.
of members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
128 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC NOTES CONTINUED 9.
To be entitled to attend, speak, and vote 14.
In order for a proxy appointment or 18.
Under section 527 of the Companies at the meeting and for the purpose of the instruction made using the CREST service Act 2006, members meeting the threshold determination by the Company of the votes to be valid, the appropriate CREST message requirements set out in that section have they may cast, shareholders must be a CREST proxy instruction must be the right to require the Company to publish entered on the Register of Members of the properly authenticated in accordance on a website a statement setting out any Company by 6.30pm on Friday 6 July 2018 with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds matter relating to: or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm specifications and must contain the i the audit of the Companys accounts on the date which is two working days prior information required for such instruction, including the auditors report and the to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the as described in the CREST manual available conduct of the audit that are to be laid Register of Members after the relevant via euroclear.
The message, regardless before the AGM: or deadline shall be disregarded in of whether it constitutes the appointment determining the rights of any person to of a proxy or is an amendment to the ii any circumstance connected with an attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
instruction given to a previously appointed auditor of the Company ceasing to hold proxy must, in order to be valid, be office since the previous meeting at which 10.
The following documents are available transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti annual accounts and reports were laid for inspection at an agreed time at the ID RA19 by 11am on Friday 6 July 2018.
For in accordance with section 437 of the Companys registered office: Waterside this purpose, the time of receipt will be Companies Act 2006.
The Company may House, 35 North Wharf Road, London taken to be the time as determined by the not require the shareholders requesting any W2 1NW.
Please ring 44 0 20 8718 9888 time stamp applied to the message by the such website publication to pay its expenses during normal business hours on any CREST Application Host from which Equiniti in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the weekday excluding public holidays.
is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company These documents will also be available for CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
is required to place a statement on a website inspection at Wembley Stadium, Wembley, After this time, any change of instructions to under section 527 of the Companies Act London HA9 0WS from 10am on 10 July 2018 proxies appointed through CREST should be 2006, it must forward the statement to the until the conclusion of the AGM.
communicated to the appointee through Companys auditor not later than the time i C opies of the executive directors other means.
when it makes the statement available service contracts.
CREST members and, where applicable, be dealt with at the AGM includes any ii C opies of the non-executive directors their CREST sponsors, or voting service statement that the Company has been letters of appointment.
providers should note that Euroclear UK & required under section 527 of the Companies Ireland Limited does not make available iii Copies of the directors Deeds Act 2006 to publish on a website.
special procedures in CREST for any of Indemnity.
Any member attending the meeting iv A c opy of the Articles of Association and limitations will, therefore, apply in has the right to ask questions.
The Company of the Company.
relation to the input of CREST proxy must have cause to answer any such instructions.
It is the responsibility of question relating to the business being 11.
Shareholders are advised that, unless the CREST member concerned to take dealt with at the meeting but no such otherwise specified, the telephone or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal answer need be given if numbers, website and email addresses set member, or sponsored member, or has out in this Notice or proxy forms are not A to do so would interfere unduly with the appointed a voting service provider, to to be used for the purpose of serving preparation for the meeting or involve the procure that his her their CREST sponsor information or documents on the Company, disclosure of confidential information, or voting service provider s take s such including the service of documents or action as shall be necessary to ensure that a B the answer has already been given on information relating to proceedings at message is transmitted by means of the a website in the form of an answer to a the Companys AGM.
CREST system by any particular time.
As at 21 May 2018 the latest practicable connection, CREST members and, where C it is undesirable in the interests of the date before the publication of this Notice applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Company or the good order of the meeting the Companys issued share capital consists system providers are referred in particular that the question be answered.
of 1,624,767,881 ordinary shares carrying one to those sections of the CREST manual vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights concerning practical limitations of the 20.
A copy of this Notice, and other in the Company as at 21 May 2018 are CREST system and timings.
information required by section 311A of 1,624,767,881. the Companies Act 2006, can be found at 16.
The Company may treat as invalid a marksandspencer.
CREST members who wish to appoint a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances proxy or proxies through the CREST set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 21.
Please see the letter dated 7 June 2018 electronic proxy appointment service may Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. from the Group Secretary on pages 123 to do so for the AGM and any adjournment 125 for further explanatory notes.
Any corporation which is a member thereof by using the procedures described can appoint one or more corporate in the CREST manual.
CREST personal representatives who may exercise on members or other CREST sponsored its behalf all of its powers as a member, members, and those CREST members provided that they do not do so in relation who have appointed a service provider, to the same shares.
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
D A O FULTON ROAD R W O R R A H S O From North Circular U 129 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 AGM LOCATION WEMBLEY PARK FULTON ROAD TUESDAY 10 JULY 2018 Wembley Stadium, Wembley, YELLOW London HA9 0WS CAR PARK Live webcast from ENGINEERS ROAD Car coach ENGINEERS WAY 11am via our website park entrance WEMBLEY ARENA GREEN CAR COACH marksandspencer.
com ARENA SQUARE PARK ENTRANCE thecompany LAKESIDE WAY M&S AGM Club Wembley main entrance Level B2 YORK HOUSE ROYAL ROUTE PLAZA RED CAR HOTEL PARK WEMBLEY CENTRAL Allow 15 minutes walk to the stadium Bobby Moore Statue 4 0 WEMBLEY STADIUM Olympic Way Shareholders enter through Club Wembley main entrance Level B2 TRAVEL FROM THE STATION TO ADMISSION TRANSPORT THE VENUE Admission will be through the Club Wembley Stadium is well served by Following feedback during last years Wembley Main Entrance on Level B2 numerous public transport links.
meeting we have looked again at the see map above.
Please plan to arrive In line with our Plan A commitments, we shareholder journey from the station to before 10.30am to allow enough time recommend that shareholders use these the venue.
Unfortunately, due to location for registration and security clearance, to travel to the meeting if possible.
restrictions, we are unable to offer support bringing your attendance card with you.
London Underground and Main Line from the station and you will be required This is either attached to your proxy form, Railway Stations Wembley Stadium is to make your own way to the venue.
Please Notice of Availability, or, for those registered served by three stations: be advised that this is at least a ten minute for electronic communications, is attached walk.
If you are unable to make this Wembley Park 600m walk to the email you will have received.
This will unassisted, please do ensure that you Jubilee and Metropolitan lines.
There is help us to register you more swiftly.
only one lift to street level at this station, There is a paid-for carpark available to so please allow sufficient time to make SHAREHOLDERS WITH DISABILITIES shareholders and taxis are permitted your way to the venue.
to drop-off in front of the venue.
Wembley Stadium is easily accessible by Wembley Stadium 750m walk wheelchair users and has lift access inside.
on the Chiltern Main Line, linking London TIMINGS There will also be an assisted hearing loop Marylebone and the Midlands, system in The Great Hall.
For further Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire.
Date: Tuesday 10 July 2018 information on the facilities at the venue, Wembley Central 2km walk 9.30am Doors open, registration please call Wembley Stadium direct on: Bakerloo line and London Overground.
Bus routes 83, 92 and 182 run towards the Bobby Moore Room on level 1.
SECURITY Wembley Stadium from stop CM.
For further information regarding your 10.15am Doors to the Great Hall open.
Security measures will be in place to ensure journey, please contact Transport for Please make your way to your safety.
Please note that bag searches London travel information on 0343 222 the Great Hall on level 3 will be in operation and any items deemed 1234, or visit tfl.
where hosts will direct inappropriate will be removed and stored you to your seats.
until the end of the event.
It is highly CAR PARKING unlikely, but should it be required, body 11.00am AGM begins.
searches may also be in operation.
Flash For those who wish to travel to the AGM 1.00pm approximately AGM closes.
photography is not allowed at the AGM.
by car, there is parking available in the The results of the poll will be Yellow Car Park.
The location of the car park released to the London Stock is indicated on the map above.
Parking is Exchange once collated.
operated by APCOA and car park spaces are pay on foot machines on departure.
4 A HIGH ROAD T Y One way H A Y W W A H IBIS Y A T U O S W WHITE HORSE BRIDGE B4557 T S R B4565 F I I R S EMPIRE WAY F T W A Y WEMBLEY HILL OLYMPIC WA Y Pedestrian walkway RUTHERFORD WAY One way
