120 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOSSARY Reconciling Closest equivalent items to statutory APM statutory measure measure Definition and purpose Income Statement Measures Like-for-like revenue Movement in Sales from non likeThe period-on-period change in revenue excluding VAT from stores which growth revenue per the for-like stores have been trading and where there has been no significant change in Income Statement footage for at least 52 weeks and online sales.
The measure is used widely in the retail industry as an indicator of sales performance.
It excludes the impact of new stores, closed stores or stores with significant footage change.
com revenue None Not applicable Total revenue through the Groups online platforms.
These revenues Online revenue are reported within the relevant UK and International segment results.
The growth in revenues on a year-on-year basis is a good indicator of the performance of the online channel and is a measure used within the Groups incentive plans.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for explanation of why this measure is used within incentive plans.
Revenue growth at None Not applicable The period-on-period change in revenue retranslating the previous year constant currency revenue at the average actual periodic exchange rates used in the current financial year.
This measure is presented as a means of eliminating the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on the period-on-period reported results.
FY 17 18 FY 16 17 m m % International Revenue At constant currency 1,087.2 1,211.3 10.2 Impact of FX retranslation 31.0 At reported currency 1,087.2 1,180.3 7.9 International owned Movement in Sales from closure The period-on-period change in revenue relating to those international retained and revenue per the markets markets in which the Group continues to trade subsequent to the franchise revenue Income Statement completion of the International exit strategy retranslating the previous growth at constant year revenue at the average actual periodic exchange rates used in the currency current financial year.
This measure is presented as a means of eliminating the effects of the International exit programme and exchange rate fluctuations on the period-on-period reported results.
FY 17 18 FY 16 17 m m % International Revenue Reported currency 1,087.2 1,180.3 7.9 Owned exit 66.4 192.3 Owned retained and franchise 1,020.8 988.0 3.3 Impact of FX translation 23.5 Owned retained and franchise at constant currency 1,020.8 1,011.5 0.9 Gross margin Gross profit Certain Where referred to throughout the Annual Report, gross margin is calculated 1 margin downstream as gross profit before adjusting items on a management basis divided by logistics costs revenue.
The gross profit used in this calculation is based on an internal see Note 2 measure of margin rather than the statutory margin, which excludes certain downstream logistics costs.
This is a key internal management metric for assessing category performance.
Adjusting items None Not applicable Those items which the Group excludes from its adjusted profit metrics in order to present a further measure of the Groups performance.
Each of these items, costs or incomes, is considered to be significant in nature and or quantum or are consistent with items treated as adjusting in prior periods.
Excluding these items from profit metrics provides readers with helpful additional information on the performance of the business across periods because it is consistent with how the business performance is planned by, and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee.
2 EBIT before EBIT Adjusting items Calculated as profit before the impact of adjusting items, net finance costs adjusting items see Note 5 and tax.
This measure is used in calculating the Return on Capital Employed for the Group.
121 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Reconciling Closest equivalent items to statutory APM statutory measure measure Definition and purpose Income Statement Measures continued Profit before tax Profit before tax Adjusting items Profit before the impact of adjusting items and tax.
The Group considers this and adjusting items see Note 5 to be an important measure of Group performance and is consistent with how the business performance is reported and assessed by the Board and the Operating Committee.
This is a measure used within the Groups incentive plans.
Adjusted earnings Earnings per share Adjusting items Profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent and before the impact of per share see Note 5 adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for explanation of why this measure is used.
Adjusted diluted Diluted earnings Adjusting items Profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent and before the impact of earnings per share per share see Note 5 adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of any potentially dilutive options.
Effective tax rate Effective tax rate Adjusting items and Total income tax charge for the Group excluding the tax impact of adjusting before adjusting items their tax impact items divided by the profit before tax and adjusting items.
This measure is an see Note 5 indicator of the ongoing tax rate for the Group.
Balance Sheet Measures Net debt None Reconciliation Net debt comprises total borrowings bank, bonds and finance lease of net debt liabilities net of accrued interest, net derivative financial instruments see note 27 that hedge the debt and the Scottish Limited Partnership liability to the UK pension scheme less cash, cash equivalents and unlisted and short term investments.
This measure is a good indication of the strength of the Groups balance sheet position and is widely used by credit rating agencies.
Capital employed Net assets Refer to definition The net total of assets and liabilities as reported in the annual financial statements excluding assets and liabilities in relation to investment property, net retirement benefit position, derivatives, current and deferred tax liabilities, Scottish Limited Partnership liability, non-current borrowings and provisions in respect of adjusting items.
This measure is used in the calculation of return on capital employed.
Cash Flow Measures Free cash flow Net cash inflow See Financial The cash generated from the Groups operating activities less capital from operating Review expenditure and interest paid.
activities This measure shows the cash retained by the Group in the year.
Free cash flow Net cash inflow See Financial Calculated as the cash generated from the Groups operating activities less pre-shareholder from operating Review capital expenditure and interest paid excluding returns to shareholders returns activities dividends and share buyback.
This measure shows the cash generated by the Group during the year that is available for returning to shareholders and is used within the Groups incentive plans.
Other Measures Capital expenditure None Not applicable Calculated as the purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets during the year less proceeds from asset disposals excluding any assets acquired or disposed of as part of a business combination.
Return on capital None Not applicable Calculated as being EBIT before adjusting items divided by the average employed of opening and closing capital employed which are defined above.
The measures used in this calculation are set out below: FY 17 18 FY 16 17 m m EBIT before adjusting items 670.6 690.6 Average capital employed 4,785.3 5,031.6 This measure is used within the Groups incentive plans.
Gross profit margin is not defined within IFRS but is a widely accepted profit measure being derived from revenue less cost of sales divided by revenue.
EBIT is not defined within IFRS but is a widely accepted profit measure being earnings before interest and tax.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
