81 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for The financial statements have been prepared in accordance periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and therefore will with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS be effective in the Group financial statements for the 52 weeks Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as adopted ending 30 March 2019.
The standard establishes a principles-based by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
recognising revenue for performance obligations only when they are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial In doing so, the standard applies a five-step approach to the statements, the directors have considered the business activities timing of revenue recognition and applies to all contracts as set out on pages 1 to 24 including the Groups principal risks and with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
uncertainties as set out on pages 22 to 24.
Based on the Groups It replaces the separate models for goods, services and cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is satisfied that the construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence and therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in T he Group has completed its assessment of the impact of preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended IFRS 15 and based on the straightforward nature of the Groups 31 March 2018. revenue streams with the recognition of revenue at the point of sale and the absence of significant judgement required in The Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership has taken determining the timing of transfer of control, the adoption of an exemption under paragraph 7 of the Partnership Accounts IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on the timing or nature Regulations 2008 from the requirement to prepare and deliver of the Groups revenue recognition.
financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act.
IFRS 16 Leases is effective for periods beginning on or after New accounting standards adopted by the Group 1 January 2019 and therefore will be effective in the Group There have been no significant changes to accounting under financial statements for the 52 weeks ending 28 March 2020.
IFRS which have affected the Groups results.
The IFRS IC has Transition to IFRS 16 will take place for the Group on 31 March issued the annual improvements to IFRS: 2014-2016 cycle.
The standard introduces a comprehensive model for the The majority of amendments in this cycle are effective for identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments annual periods on or after 1 January 2018 with the exception for both lessors and lessees and will replace the current lease of the changes to IFRS 12 which have already been implemented accounting requirements including IAS 17 Leases and the and have not impacted the Group.
New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective F or lessees, IFRS 16 removes distinctions between operating The following IFRS have been issued but are not yet effective: leases and finance leases.
These are replaced by a model where a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial right of use asset and a corresponding liability are recognised Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard for all leases except for short-term leases and low value assets.
is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 In contrast to lessee accounting, IFRS 16 substantially carries and therefore will be effective in the Group financial statements forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17, and for the 52 weeks ending 30 March 2019. continues to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an operating lease or a finance lease.
The standard introduces changes to three key areas: T he Group has established a steering committee to oversee new requirements for the classification and measurement the governance of the implementation project, which regularly of financial instruments: reports to the Group Audit Committee.
During the current period a new impairment model based on expected credit losses the Group has made progress in a number of areas including the for recognising provisions: and identification of leases and contracts that could be determined to include a lease: the collation of lease data required for the simplified hedge accounting through closer alignment with calculation of the impact assessment: identification of areas of an entitys risk management methodology.
complexity or judgement relevant to the Group: identification of T he Group has completed an assessment of the impact of necessary changes to systems and processes required to enable IFRS 9 and has concluded that adoption will not have a material reporting and accounting in accordance with IFRS 16: and impact on either the Consolidated Income Statement or the development of initial estimates for discount rates.
The Group will apply all aspects F rom the work performed to date and based on the of the new standard at the transition date of 1 April 2018 by undiscounted lease commitments presented in note 25, adjusting opening retained earnings in the balance sheet and it is anticipated that implementation of the new standard will no restatement of comparative periods.
have a significant impact on the reported assets and liabilities T he Group has an economic interest in M&S Bank which entitles of the Group.
In addition, the implementation of the standard the Group to a 50% share of the profits of M&S Bank after will impact the income statement and classification of cash flows.
M&S Bank adopted IFRS 9 with effect A reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Groups from 1 January 2018.
The Groups share of profits for the period consolidated results is dependent on a number of unresolved includes the post implementation impact of adopting the areas, including: choice of transition option, refinement of expected credit loss model for provisioning in accordance approach to discount rates, estimates of lease-term for leases with the requirements of IFRS 9. with options to break and renew and conclusion of data collection.
In addition, the financial impact is dependent on the facts and circumstances at the time of transition.
For these reasons, it is not yet practicable to determine a reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 82 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Alternative Performance Measures Basis of consolidation In reporting financial information, the Group presents alternative The Group financial statements incorporate the financial performance measures, APMs, which are not defined or specified statements of Marks and Spencer Group plc and all its subsidiaries under the requirements of IFRS.
made up to the period end date.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
a substitute for or superior to IFRS measures, provide stakeholders with additional helpful information on the performance of the Subsidiaries business.
These APMs are consistent with how the business Subsidiary undertakings are all entities including special purpose performance is planned and reported within the internal entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial management reporting to the Board and Operating Committee.
This power is generally accompanied by the Some of these measures are also used for the purpose of setting Group having a shareholding of more than one half of the voting remuneration targets.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting and their The key APMs that the Group uses include: like-for-like sales: gross results are included from the date of acquisition.
margin: profit before tax and adjusting items: adjusted earnings per share: net debt: free cash flow: and return on capital employed.
The separable net assets, including property, plant and equipment Each of these APMs, and others used by the Group, are set out in and intangible assets, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings the Glossary on pages 120 to 121 including explanations of how they are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements on the are calculated and how they can be reconciled to a statutory basis of the fair value as at the effective date of control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on The Group reports some financial measures, primarily International transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
sales, on both a reported and constant currency basis.
The constant Revenue currency basis, which is an APM, retranslates the previous year Revenue comprises sales of goods to customers outside the revenues at the average actual periodic exchange rates used in Group less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected the current financial year.
This measure is presented as a means returns, discounts and loyalty scheme vouchers, and is stated net of eliminating the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on the of value added tax and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised year-on-year reported results.
when goods are delivered to our franchise partners or the customer The Group makes certain adjustments to the statutory profit and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been measures in order to derive many of these APMs.
The Groups policy transferred to the buyer.
is to exclude items that are considered to be significant in nature Supplier income and or quantum or are consistent with items that were treated as In line with industry practice, the Group enters into agreements adjusting in prior periods.
Treatment as an adjusting item provides with suppliers to share the costs and benefits of promotional stakeholders with additional useful information to assess the activity and volume growth.
The Group receives income from its year-on-year trading performance of the Group.
On this basis, suppliers based on specific agreements in place.
This supplier the following items were included within adjusting items for the income received is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales 52-week period ended 31 March 2018: based on the entitlement that has been earned up to the balance Net charges associated with the strategic programme in relation sheet date for each relevant supplier agreement.
Marketing to the review of the UK store estate.
contributions, equipment hire and other non-judgemental, fixed rate supplier charges are not included in the Groups definition of Significant restructuring costs and other associated costs arising supplier income.
from strategy changes that are not considered by the Group to be part of the normal operating costs of the business.
The types of supplier income recognised by the Group and the associated recognition policies are: Significant pension charges arising as a result of the previous years changes to the UK defined benefit scheme practices.
Promotional contribution: Includes supplier contributions to promotional giveaways and pre-agreed contributions to annual Impairment charges and provisions that are considered to be spend and save activity.
significant in nature and or value to the trading performance of the business.
Income is recognised as a deduction to cost of sales over the relevant promotional period.
Income is calculated and invoiced Charges arising from adjustments to depreciation of leasehold at the end of the promotional period based on actual sales or assets and write-off of assets that are considered to be significant according to fixed contribution arrangements.
Contributions earned in nature and or value.
but not invoiced are accrued at the end of the relevant period.
Adjustments to income from M&S Bank due to a provision B. Volume-based rebates: Includes annual growth incentives, recognised by M&S Bank for the cost of providing redress to seasonal contributions and contributions to share economies of customers in respect of possible mis-selling of M&S Bank scale resulting from moving product supply.
Annual growth incentives are calculated and invoiced at the end of Other adjusting items including profit on sale of Hong Kong and the financial year, once earned, based on fixed percentage growth charges for potential liabilities for employee related matters.
targets agreed for each supplier at the beginning of the year.
They Refer to note 5 for a summary of the adjusting items.
are recognised as a reduction in cost of sales in the year to which they relate.
Other volume-based rebates are agreed with the A summary of the Companys and the Groups accounting policies supplier and spread over the relevant season contract period to is given below: which they relate.
Contributions earned but not invoiced are Accounting convention accrued at the end of the relevant period.
The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost basis of accounting, as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
83 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Uncollected supplier income at the balance sheet date is classified B.
Brands Acquired brand values are held on the statement of within the financial statements as follows: financial position initially at cost.
Definite life intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Trade and other payables: The majority of income due from Indefinite life intangibles are tested for impairment annually or as suppliers is netted against amounts owed to that supplier as the triggering events occur.
Any impairment in value is recognised Group has the legal right to offset these balances.
Trade and other receivables: Supplier income that has been C. Software intangibles Where computer software is not an earned but not invoiced at the balance sheet date is recognised in integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is trade and other receivables and primarily relates to volume-based treated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised software costs include rebates that run up to the period end.
external direct costs of goods and services, as well as internal In order to provide users of the accounts with greater understanding payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated in this area, additional balance sheet disclosure is provided in note 17 with the project.
Capitalised software development costs are amortised on a Dividends straight-line basis over their expected economic lives, normally Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the between three and ten years.
Computer software under period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
development is held at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are Any impairment in value is recognised within the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Pensions The Groups policy is to state property, plant and equipment at cost Funded pension plans are in place for the Groups UK employees less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment and some employees overseas.
Property is not revalued for accounting purposes.
Assets in the course of construction are held at cost less any recognised For defined benefit pension schemes, the difference between the impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying fair value of the assets and the present value of the defined benefit assets, borrowing costs.
obligation is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position.
The defined benefit obligation is actuarially Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of tangible noncalculated using the projected unit credit method.
current assets including investment properties, less estimated residual values on a straight line basis as follows: The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year, together with the cost of any curtailment, is charged Freehold land not depreciated: to operating profit in the year.
With effect from 1 April 2017 the Freehold and leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term Group no longer incurs any service cost or curtailment costs related over 50 years depreciated to their residual value over their to the UK defined benefit pension scheme as the scheme is closed estimated remaining economic lives: to future accrual.
Leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term of less than The net interest cost on the net retirement benefit asset liability is 50 years depreciated over the shorter of their useful economic calculated by applying the discount rate, measured at the beginning lives or the remaining period of the lease: and of the year, to the net defined benefit asset liability and is included as a single net amount in finance income.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 25 years according to the estimated economic life of the asset.
Remeasurements, being actuarial gains and losses, together with the difference between actual investment returns and the return Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
implied by the net interest cost, are recognised immediately in Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, the statement of comprehensive income.
depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal.
During the year the UK defined benefit DB pension scheme Any impairment in value is recognised within the income statement.
purchased annuities in order to hedge longevity risk for pensioners Leasing within the scheme.
As permitted by IAS19, the Group has opted to Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and the risks and recognise the difference between the fair value of the plan assets rewards are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases and the cost of the policy as an actuarial loss in the statement of the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright, and comprehensive income.
the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is are charged as an expense on an accruals basis.
charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets, unless the term of the lease is shorter.
Leasing payments Intangible assets are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the A.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the interest is charged to the income statement.
excess of the consideration paid and the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the All other leases are operating leases and the costs in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities including intangible assets of the operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
The value of any lease incentive received to take on an as an asset and assessed for impairment annually or as triggering operating lease for example, a rent free period is recognised as events occur.
Any impairment in value is recognised within the deferred income and is released over the life of the lease.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 84 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Leasehold prepayments Deferred tax is accounted for using a temporary difference Payments made to acquire leasehold land and buildings are approach, and is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable included in prepayments at cost and are amortised over the life on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets of the lease.
and liabilities in the statement of financial position and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Cash and cash equivalents Deferred tax is calculated based on the expected manner of Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term deposits with banks realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and and other financial institutions, with an initial maturity of three liabilities, applying tax rates and laws enacted or substantively months or less and credit card payments received within 48 hours.
enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Inventories Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable Inventories are valued on a weighted average cost basis and carried temporary differences.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct taxable temporary differences arising on investments in expenditure and other attributable costs incurred in bringing subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the inventories to their present location and condition.
All inventories reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled by the are finished goods.
Certain purchases of inventories may be subject Group and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the to cash flow hedges for foreign exchange risk.
The Group applies a foreseeable future.
basis adjustment for those purchases in a way that the cost is initially established by reference to the hedged exchange rate and not the Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary differences spot rate at the day of purchase.
that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Provisions Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation taxable profits will be available against which the deductible as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that at the end of the reporting period, and are discounted to present sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the value where the effect is material.
Share-based payments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value Financial instruments of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups The fair value of each award is recognised as an expense over the statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
of the share awards that will eventually vest.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recorded reviewed at each reporting period and the charge is adjusted to initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised reflect actual and estimated levels of vesting.
Subsequently, this results in their recognition at nominal Foreign currencies value less an allowance for any doubtful debts.
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the weighted B.
Other financial assets Other financial assets consist of average of monthly exchange rates for revenue and profits.
investments in debt and equity securities and short-term The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries are investments and are classified as either available-for-sale or fair translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange value through profit and loss.
Available for sale financial assets are differences are booked into reserves and reported in the initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs directly consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Financial assets Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at held at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
monetary assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting Where securities are designated as fair value through profit and period are translated at the closing balance sheet rate.
The resulting loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included exchange gain or loss is recognised within the income statement, in the income statement for the period.
For available-for-sale except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying investments, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
recognised in other comprehensive income, until the security is Taxation disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other in the income statement, except to the extent it relates to items comprehensive income is included in the income statement for recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, the period.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market in which case the related tax is recognised in other comprehensive price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably income or directly in equity.
measured by other means are held at cost.
Provision is made for uncertain tax positions when it is considered C. Classification of financial liabilities and equity Financial probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the authority.
The provision is calculated using the single best estimate substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity where that outcome is more likely than not and a weighted average instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in probability in other circumstances.
The position is reviewed on an the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
ongoing basis, to ensure appropriate provision is made for each known tax risk.
85 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED D. Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are B.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of a derivative initially recorded at fair value, which equals the proceeds received, instrument designated in a fair value hedge, or for non-derivatives net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently held at amortised the foreign currency component of carrying value, are recognised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement in the income statement.
The hedged item is adjusted for changes or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for using an in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying corresponding entry in the income statement.
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled C. Net investment hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative in the period in which they arise.
or non-derivative financial instruments that are designated and E. Loan notes Long-term loans are initially measured at fair value effective as hedges of net investments are recognised in other net of direct issue costs and are subsequently held at amortised comprehensive income in the hedging reserve and any ineffective cost unless the loan is designated in a hedge relationship, in which portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
case hedge accounting treatment will apply.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that F. Trade payables Trade payables are recorded initially at fair do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally statement as they arise.
this results in their recognition at their nominal value.
D. Discontinuance of hedge accounting Hedge accounting is G. Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, are recorded at the consideration received, net of direct issue costs.
terminated, or exercised, the hedge relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the forecast transaction is Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities no longer expected to occur or the Group fide-designates the The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps hedge relationship.
and forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
These When a cash flow hedge is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at the end of income is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
The method of recognising the resulting gain Subsequent changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments or loss is dependent on whether the derivative is designated as a when the forecast transaction is no longer highly probable but is still hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
expected to occur, are recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net The Group designates certain hedging derivatives as either: cumulative gain or loss recognised in comprehensive income is A hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or change in transferred to the income statement for the period.
the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability a cash flow hedge : When a fair value hedge is discontinued, the fair value adjustment to A hedge of the exposure to change in the fair value of a the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged recognised asset or liability a fair value hedge : or risk is amortised to the income statement from that date.
A hedge of the exposure on the translation of net investments When a net investment hedge is discontinued, the subsequent in foreign entities a net investment hedge.
changes in fair value of a derivative or foreign exchange gains losses on recognised financial liabilities are recognised in the At the inception of a hedging relationship, the hedging instrument income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the hedged item are documented, along with the risk recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the management objectives and strategy for undertaking various income statement only on disposal of the net investment.
hedge transactions and prospective effectiveness testing is performed.
During the life of the hedging relationship, prospective The Group does not use derivatives to hedge income statement and retrospective effectiveness testing is performed to ensure the translation exposures.
instrument remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
Changes Embedded derivatives in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and statement as they arise.
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts A.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded of future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income derivatives are carried in the statement of financial position at in the hedging reserve and any ineffective portion is recognised fair value from the inception of the host contract.
immediately in the income statement.
If the firm commitment or Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement forecast transaction that is the subject of a cash flow hedge results during the period in which they arise.
in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged items affect net profit or loss.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 86 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Critical accounting judgements and sources of Useful lives and residual values of property, plant and estimation uncertainty equipment and intangibles Depreciation and amortisation are The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires provided to write down the cost of property, plant and equipment the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect the and intangibles to their estimated residual values over their application of policies and reported amounts.
estimated useful lives, as set out above.
The selection of the residual values and useful lives gives rise to estimation uncertainty, Critical judgements represent key decisions made by management especially in the context of changing economic and market factors, in the application of the Group accounting policies.
Where a the channel shift from stores to online, increasing technological significant risk of materially different outcomes exists due to advancement and the Groups ongoing strategic transformation management assumptions or sources of estimation uncertainty, programmes.
The useful lives of property, plant and equipment and this will represent a critical accounting estimate.
Estimates and intangibles are reviewed by management annually.
See notes 14 judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical and 15 for further details.
Refer to the UK store estate section above experience and other factors, including expectations of future for specific sources of estimation uncertainty in relation to the events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment Actual results may differ from these estimates.
within stores identified as part of the UK store estate programme.
The estimates and judgements which have a significant risk of Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets Property, plant and equipment and computer software intangibles and liabilities are discussed below.
are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances Critical accounting judgements indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Adjusting items The directors believe that the adjusted profit and and indefinite lived brands are reviewed for impairment on an earnings per share measures provide additional useful information annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the to shareholders on the performance of the business.
These recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of value in measures are consistent with how business performance is use and fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use method requires measured internally by the Board and Operating Committee.
The the Group to determine appropriate assumptions which are adjusted profit before tax measure is not a recognised profit sources of estimation uncertainty in relation to the cash flow measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with projections over the three-year strategic plan period, the long-term adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
The classification growth rate to be applied beyond this three-year period and the of adjusting items requires significant management judgement after risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate used to discount the assumed considering the nature and intentions of a transaction.
The Groups cash flows to present value.
The assumption that cash flows definitions of adjusting items are outlined within both the Group continue into perpetuity with the exception of stores identified as accounting policies and the glossary on pages 120 - 121. part of the UK store estate programme is a source of significant These definitions have been applied consistently year-on-year.
A future change to the assumption of trading into perpetuity for any CGU would result in a reassessment Note 5 provides further details on current year adjusting items and of useful economic lives and residual value and could give rise to a their adherence to Group policy.
significant impairment of property, plant and equipment and Sources of estimation uncertainty intangibles particularly where the store carrying value exceeds fair UK store estate The Group is undertaking a significant strategic value less cost to sell.
See notes 14 and 15 for further details on the programme to review its UK store estate resulting in a net charge Groups assumptions and associated sensitivities.
A significant level of estimation has been Post-retirement benefits The determination of pension net interest used to determine the charges to be recognised in the year.
The income and the defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined most significant judgement that impacts the charge is that the benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain stores identified as part of the programme are more likely than assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, not to close.
Where a store closure has been announced there is a pensionable salary growth, mortality and expected return on reduced level of estimation uncertainty as the programme actions scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experiences or are to be taken over a shorter and more immediate timeframe.
future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent Further significant estimation uncertainty arises in respect of periods.
The fair value of unquoted investments within total plan determining the recoverable amount of assets and the costs to be assets is determined using fair value estimates provided by the incurred as part of the programme.
Significant assumptions have manager of the investment or fund.
See note 11 for further details been made including: on the impact of changes in the key assumptions and estimates and reassessment of the useful lives of store fixed assets: note 12 for critical judgements associated with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme interest in the Marks and Spencer Scottish estimation in respect of the expected shorter-term trading Limited Partnership.
value in use, including assumptions with regard to the period of trading as well as changes to future sales, gross margin and Revenue recognition Accruals for sales returns, deferred income in operating costs: relation to loyalty scheme redemptions and gift card and credit voucher redemptions are estimated on the basis of historical estimation of the sale proceeds for freehold stores which is returns and redemptions.
These are recorded so as to be allocated dependent upon location specific factors, timing of likely exit and against revenue in the same period as that in which the original future changes to the UK retail property market valuations: revenue is recorded.
These balances are reviewed regularly and estimation of the value of dilapidation payments required for updated to reflect managements latest best estimates.
However, leasehold store exits, which is dependent on a number of factors actual returns and redemptions could vary from those estimates.
including the extent of modifications of the store, the terms of Inventory provisioning Inventory provisions are recognised where the lease agreement, and the condition of the property: and the net realisable value from the sale of inventory is estimated to be estimation of future contractual lease costs to be incurred lower than its carrying value, requiring estimation of the expected including uncertainty with regards to the cost of termination future sale price.
The estimation includes judgement on a number of and or potential sub-let including estimation of nature, timing factors including historical sales patterns, expected sales profiles, and value including any potential void periods and based on potential obsolescence and shrinkage.
assessment of location specific retail property market factors.
See notes 5 and 15 for further detail.
87 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reporting on components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Operating Committee.
The Operating Committee reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources across each operating segment.
The operating segments are UK and International which are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Operating Committee.
The UK segment consists of the UK retail business and UK franchise operations.
The International segment consists of Marks & Spencer owned businesses in Europe, Asia and the international franchise operations.
The Operating Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of adjusting items from the operating segments.
The Operating Committee also monitors revenue within the segments and gross profit within the UK segment.
To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include an additional voluntary disclosure analysing revenue within the reportable segments by sub-category and gross profit within the UK segment by sub-category.
Management gross profit for the UK segment excludes certain expenses resulting in an adjustment between cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses of 370.0m last year 360.5m.
Management profit excludes the adjustments income or charges made to reported profit before tax that are significant in value and or nature see note 5.
Please refer to the accounting policy in note 1 and the glossary for more details on these adjustments.
UK assets include centrally held assets largely relating to IT systems that support the International business of 24.9m last year: 34.0m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 88 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 EXPENSE ANALYSIS 2018 2017 Total Total m m Revenue 10,698.2 10,622.0 Cost of sales 6,650.9 6,534.2 Gross profit 4,047.3 4,087.8 Selling and administrative expenses 3,426.2 3,460.4 Other operating income 49.5 63.2 Operating profit before adjusting items 670.6 690.6 Adjusting items see note 5 514.1 437.4 Operating profit 156.5 253.2 The selling and administrative expenses are further analysed below: 2018 2017 Total Total m m 1 Employee costs 1,521.0 1,491.4 Occupancy costs 705.6 757.2 Repairs, renewals and maintenance of property 94.7 95.1 Depreciation, amortisation and asset impairments and write-offs before adjusting items 580.6 589.5 Other costs 524.3 527.2 Selling and administrative expenses 3,426.2 3,460.4 1.
There are an additional 57.9m last year 61.2m of employee costs recorded within cost of sales.
These costs are included within the aggregate remuneration disclosures note 10A.
4 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION The following items have been included in arriving at profit before taxation: 2018 2017 m m Net foreign exchange losses gains 0.8 0.2 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,904.1 5,776.1 Write down of inventories to net realisable value 220.5 234.9 Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment owned assets 459.1 410.3 under finance leases 0.5 0.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 180.7 167.4 Impairments and write-offs of assets 233.6 103.9 Operating lease rentals payable property 329.9 350.1 fixtures, fittings and equipment 7.4 4.3 Included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, including expenses for audit and non-audit services, payable to the Companys auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates as follows: 2018 2017 m m Annual audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 1.3 0.9 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.6 0.7 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees 2.1 1.9 Other services Other services 89 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 ADJUSTING ITEMS The total adjusting items reported for the 52 week period ended 31 March 2018 is a net charge of 514.1m last year 437.4m.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax to arrive at adjusted profit are: 2018 2017 Notes m m Strategic programmes - UK store estate 15, 22 321.1 51.6 Strategic programmes - UK organisation 15, 22 30.7 24.0 Strategic programmes - IT restructure 22 15.5 Strategic programmes - UK logistics 15, 22 13.1 9.8 Strategic programmes - Changes to pay and pensions 22 12.9 156.0 Strategic programmes - International store closures and Impairments 22 5.0 132.5 UK store Impairments, asset write-offs and onerous lease charges 15, 22 63.4 48.8 M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 34.7 44.1 Other 22 17.7 9.8 Adjustments to profit before tax 514.1 437.4 In the prior year, the Group announced a wide-ranging strategic review across a number of areas of the business including customer, brand, UK organisation, UK store estate and International which has resulted in the Group recognising significant charges in both the prior and current financial years.
Strategic programmes UK store estate 321.1m In November 2016, the Group announced a five-year strategic programme to transform the UK store estate.
During the year, the Group announced its intention to accelerate this programme in line with the strategic aim of significantly growing the online share of sales, as well as better than expected levels of sales transfer achieved from recent store closures.
This acceleration of the UK store estate programme has resulted in an acceleration of the timing of recognition of the associated costs, primarily driven by a shortening of the useful economic life, for impairment testing purposes, of those stores identified as part of the transformation plans.
The Group has recognised a charge of 321.1m in the year in relation to those stores identified as part of its transformation plans.
The charge includes the impairment of assets reflecting the shortening of the useful economic life, accelerated depreciation of buildings, fixtures and fittings and managements best estimate of closure costs including onerous contracts and leases, dilapidations and, where closure has been approved and announced, redundancy costs.
Refer to notes 15 and 22 for further detail on these charges.
Whilst costs relating to the closure and re-configuration of the UK store estate will recur across future financial years, the Group considers that they should be treated as an adjusting item given they are part of a strategic programme and are significant in value to the results of the Group.
Strategic programmes UK organisation 30.7m During the year, the Group recognised a charge of 28.2m in relation to the centralisation of its London Head Office functions into one building.
The remaining 2.5m charge in the period represents redundancy costs associated with changes to the UK Head Office structure.
These costs are considered to be an adjusting item as the total programme cost is significant in value and relates to a significant strategic transformation programme of the Group.
Treatment of the redundancy costs within adjusting items is consistent with the disclosure of the original UK organisation charges in the prior year.
Strategic programmes IT reorganisation 15.5m As part of the five-year transformation strategy, the Group announced a technology transformation programme to create a more agile, faster and commercial technology function that will work with the business to deliver both growth and cost efficiency.
The 15.5m of costs incurred in the year relate primarily to redundancy, transition costs associated with the implementation of a new technology operating model and accelerated depreciation of IT assets which the Group expects to retire early as a result of the transformation strategy.
Further costs will be incurred in respect of this reorganisation in the financial year ending 30 March 2019.
These costs are considered to be an adjusting item as they relate to a significant strategic initiative of the Group and are significant in value, both in the year and in total for the project.
Strategic programmes UK Logistics 13.1m As part of the previously announced long-term strategic programme to transition to a single-tier UK distribution network, the Group has announced the opening of a new Clothing & Home distribution centre in Welham Green in 2019.
As a direct result the Group has announced the closure of two existing distribution centres.
A net charge of 13.1m has been recognised in the period for redundancy, dilapidations, accelerated depreciation, onerous contracts and project costs.
The Group considers this cost to be an adjusting item as it is significant in value and relates to a significant strategic initiative of the Group.
Treatment of the costs as being adjusting items is consistent with the treatment in previous periods in relation to the creation of a single-tier logistics network.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 90 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 ADJUSTING ITEMS CONTINUED Strategic programmes Changes to pay and pensions 12.9m In May 2016, the Group announced proposals for a fairer, simpler and more consistent approach to pay and premia as well as proposals to close the UK defined benefit DB pension scheme to future accrual effective from 1 April 2017.
As part of these proposals the Group committed to making transition payments to impacted employees in relation to the closure of the UK DB scheme, expected to be c. 25m in total over three years commencing 2017 18.
The charge in the period for the first year of these transitional payments to employees is 12.9m.
As previously disclosed, the Group considers the costs directly associated with the closure of the UK DB scheme to be an adjusting item on the basis that they relate to a significant cost, impacting the Group results.
Treatment of the transition payments made in the period within adjusting items is consistent with the disclosure of the UK DB scheme closure costs in the prior year.
Strategic programmes International store closures and impairments 5.0m In the prior year the Group announced its intention to close its owned stores in ten international markets, resulting in the recognition of 132.5m of expected closure costs primarily relating to redundancy, lease exit and property dilapidations.
A net charge of 5.0m has been recognised in the period reflecting the actualisation of previously estimated closure costs and those costs which can only be recognised as incurred such as legal costs.
The net charge is considered to be an adjusting item as it relates to a significant strategic program, which over the two years of charges has been significant in both value and nature to the results of the Group.
UK store impairments, asset write-offs and onerous lease contracts 63.4m The Group has recognised a number of charges in the year associated with reductions to the carrying value of items of property, plant and equipment.
UK store impairment testing excluding those stores which have been captured as part of the UK store estate programme has identified certain stores where the current and anticipated future performance does not support the carrying value of the stores.
As a result, a charge of 12.6m has been incurred primarily in respect of the impairment of assets associated with these stores.
Refer to note 15 for further details on the impairments.
This impairment charge is considered to be an adjusting item as it is considered to be consistent with the treatment of related impairments in the prior period.
Following the announcement of the UK store estate strategy in November 2016, the Group conducted a review of the 4.8bn net book value as at 1 April 2017 of the property, plant and equipment on its balance sheet.
A one-off non-cash adjustment was made to depreciation of 45.8m.
Of the 45.8m, 43.2m relates to assets in the UK and 2.6m relates to assets in Ireland.
Additionally, the Group has recognised an additional charge of 5.0m related to the write-off of store environment assets that are no longer used by the Group.
The Group considers these costs to be adjusting items as the charges are significant in nature and value to the results of the Group for the current period.
M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 34.7m The Group has an economic interest in M&S Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC, by way of a Relationship Agreement that entitles the Group to a 50% share of the profits of M&S Bank after appropriate deductions.
The Group does not share in any losses of M&S Bank and is not obliged to refund any profit share received from HSBC although future income may be impacted by significant one-off deductions.
Since the year ended 31 December 2010, M&S Bank has recognised in its audited financial statements an estimated liability for redress to customers in respect of possible mis-selling of financial products.
The Groups fee income from M&S Bank has been reduced by the deduction of the estimated liability in both the current and prior years.
The deduction in the period is 34.7m.
The Group considers this cost to be an adjusting item, despite its recurring nature, as the charges are significant in nature and value in each period to the results of the Group.
Other 17.7m Other includes profit on the disposal of our retail business in Hong Kong and charges for potential liabilities for certain employee related matters in the current period.
The prior period income related to litigation settlements.
These amounts are considered to be adjusting items as they are significant in nature and value to the results of the group in the current period.
On 30 December 2017, the Group completed the disposal of the retail business in Hong Kong and Macau to the Al-Futtaim Group for consideration of HKD360.7m 33.9m.
The profit on disposal of the business was 5.8m including the recycling of amounts previously taken to equity in respect of foreign currency translation and net investment hedging.
This profit is considered to be an adjusting item as it is significant in nature to both the results of the Group and the International segment.
The profit on disposal is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Proceeds 33.9 Disposal costs 0.9 Net disposal proceeds 33.0 Fair value of net assets disposed 28.6 Provision for transition services 0.8 Net foreign exchange amounts recycled from reserves 2.2 Profit on disposal 5.8 91 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 FINANCE INCOME COSTS 2018 2017 m m Bank and other interest receivable 6.0 6.6 Ineffectiveness on financial instruments 0.4 0.3 Pension net finance income see note 11F 17.7 29.3 Finance income 24.1 36.2 Interest on bank borrowings 1.2 2.8 Interest payable on syndicated bank facility 2.3 4.3 Interest payable on medium-term notes 90.0 91.2 Interest payable on finance leases 1.9 1.9 Ineffectiveness on financial instruments 2.3 Unwind of discount on provisions 5.2 0.2 Unwind of discount on partnership liability to the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 10.9 12.6 Finance costs 113.8 113.0 Net finance costs 89.7 76.8 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE A.
Taxation charge 2018 2017 m m Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the year at 19% last year: 20% current year 65.4 98.3 adjustments in respect of prior years 7.5 17.4 UK current tax 72.9 80.9 Overseas current taxation current year 10.3 8.9 adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 7.3 Total current taxation 83.0 97.1 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 37.3 48.3 recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses 1.4 adjustments in respect of prior years 3.1 11.5 changes in tax rate 3.5 0.4 Total deferred tax see note 23 45.3 36.4 Total income tax expense 37.7 60.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 92 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED B.
Taxation reconciliation The effective tax rate was 56.4% last year 34.4% and is explained below.
2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 66.8 176.4 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% last year: 20% 12.7 35.3 Depreciation and other amounts in relation to fixed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 3.0 4.7 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 14.8 0.7 Retranslation of deferred tax balances due to the change in statutory UK tax rates 3.5 3.9 Overseas profits taxed at rates different to those of the UK 3.4 2.3 Overseas tax losses where there is no relief anticipated in the foreseeable future 0.5 Adjustments to the current and deferred tax charges in respect of prior periods 4.2 1.4 Adjusting items: depreciation and other amounts in relation to fixed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 8.0 UK store and strategic programme impairments where no tax relief is available 6.6 7.7 International store closures and impairments 8.3 26.0 other strategic programme income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 3.4 1.7 other 0.2 retranslation of deferred tax balances due to the change in statutory UK tax rates 4.3 overseas profits taxed at rates different to those of the UK 10.6 Total income tax expense 37.7 60.7 After excluding adjustments to underlying profit, the underlying effective tax rate was 21.6% last year: 19.9%.
Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes include a charge of 12.7m 2017 4.1m credit in relation to the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership.
Under this structure tax relief for payments to be made to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme in relation to the first partnership interest arose in the first ten years of the structure and some of this benefit is recaptured in subsequent years.
On 15 September 2016, the Finance Bill received Royal Assent to enact the previously announced reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Group has continued to remeasure its UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period at the rates of 19% and 17% based on an updated expectation of when those balances are expected to unwind.
This has resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax credit of 3.5m in the income statement and the recognition of a deferred tax charge of 0.1m in other comprehensive income.
93 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED C. Current Tax Reconciliation The current tax reconciliation shows the tax effect of the main adjustments made to the Groups accounting profits in order to arrive at its taxable profits.
The reconciling items differ from those in Note 7B as the effects of deferred tax timing differences are ignored below.
2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation 66.8 176.4 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% last year: 20% 12.7 35.3 Disallowable accounting depreciation and other similar items 78.7 90.2 Deductible capital allowances 70.6 67.2 Adjustments in relation to employee share schemes 2.8 1.0 Adjustments in relation to employee pension schemes 9.2 11.7 Overseas profits taxed at rates different to those of the UK 3.4 2.3 Overseas tax losses where there is no tax relief anticipated in the foreseeable future 0.5 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable 0.5 3.8 Adjusting items: depreciation and other amounts in relation to fixed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 9.5 UK store and strategic programme impairments where no tax relief is available 44.0 17.3 International store closures and impairments 16.2 27.3 other strategic programme income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 5.1 1.8 pay and pensions 25.4 other 3.4 overseas profits taxed at rates different to those of the UK 10.6 Current year current tax charge 75.7 107.2 Represented by: UK current year current tax 65.4 98.3 Overseas current year current tax 10.3 8.9 75.7 107.2 UK adjustments in respect of prior years 7.5 17.4 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 7.3 Total current taxation Note 7A 83.0 97.1 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The adjusted earnings per share figures have also been calculated based on earnings before adjusting items that are significant in nature and or quantum and are considered to be distortive see note 5.
These have been presented to provide shareholders with an additional measure of the Groups year on year performance.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has four types of dilutive potential ordinary shares being: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year: unvested shares granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: unvested shares granted under the Restricted Share Plan and unvested shares within the Performance Share Plan that have met the relevant performance conditions at the end of the reporting period.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 94 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 25.7 117.1 Add less net of tax : Strategic programmes UK store estate 264.7 46.5 Strategic programmes UK organisation 28.0 20.3 Strategic programmes IT restructure 12.5 Strategic programmes UK logistics 10.7 9.2 Strategic programmes Changes to pay and pensions 10.4 128.6 Strategic programmes International store closures and impairments 4.1 120.8 UK store Impairments, asset write-offs and onerous lease charges 61.6 41.3 M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 28.1 35.3 Other 14.5 7.9 Profit before adjusting items attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 452.1 492.8 Million Million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,624.0 1,623.1 Potentially dilutive share options under the Group's share option schemes 5.4 8.0 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares 1,629.4 1,631.1 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 1.6 7.2 Diluted earnings per share 1.6 7.2 Adjusted basic earnings per share 27.8 30.4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 27.8 30.2 9 DIVIDENDS 2018 2017 2018 2017 per share per share m m Dividends on equity ordinary shares Paid final dividend 11.9p 11.9p 193.1 192.7 Special dividend 4.6p 74.5 Paid interim dividend 6.8p 6.8p 110.3 110.3 18.7p 23.3p 303.4 377.5 The directors have approved a final dividend of 11.9p per share last year 11.9p per share which in line with the requirements of IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, has not been recognised within these results.
This final dividend of c. 193.1m last year 193.1m will be paid on 13 July 2018 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
The ordinary shares will be quoted ex dividend on 31 May 2018.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available to shareholders who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the Company.
For those shareholders electing to receive the DRIP the last date for receipt of a new election is 22 June 2018.
Aggregate remuneration The aggregate remuneration and associated costs of Group employees including Operating Committee were: 2018 2017 Total Total m m Wages and salaries 1,359.7 1,333.8 Social security costs 91.7 89.7 Pension costs 76.7 100.3 Share-based payments see note 13 18.9 10.6 Employee welfare and other personnel costs 56.6 47.1 Capitalised staffing costs 24.7 28.9 1 Total aggregate remuneration 1,578.9 1,552.6 1.
Excludes amounts recognised within adjusting items see note 5 such as the transition payments the Group has committed to in respect of removal of premia and redundancy costs associated with the UK and International strategic programmes.
Details of key management compensation are given in note 28.
95 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 EMPLOYEES CONTINUED B.
Average monthly number of employees 2018 2017 UK stores management and supervisory categories 6,004 5,617 other 66,540 66,385 UK head office management and supervisory categories 3,088 3,172 other 856 862 UK operations management and supervisory categories 89 191 other 1,153 1,267 Overseas 6,891 7,445 Total average number of employees 84,621 84,939 If the number of hours worked was converted on the basis of a normal working week, the equivalent average number of full-time employees would have been 58,928 last year 59,764.
11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group provides pension arrangements for the benefit of its UK employees through the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme a defined benefit DB arrangement and Your M&S Pension Saving Plan a defined contribution DC arrangement.
The UK DB pension scheme operated on a final pensionable salary basis and is governed by a Trustee board which is independent of the Group.
The UK DB scheme closed to future accrual on 1 April 2017.
On closure of the UK DB scheme, all remaining active members moved to deferred status which resulted in a curtailment charge of 127.0m in the prior year.
There will be no further service charge relating to the scheme and no future monthly employer contributions for current service.
At year end the UK DB pension scheme had no active members last year nil, 60,402 deferred members last year 62,655 and 51,802 pensioners last year 51,198.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2015 and showed a funding surplus of 204m.
No additional funding contributions were made during the year in respect of benefits already accrued by members, as the final contribution of 28m, agreed at the 2012 actuarial valuation was paid in the prior year.
The UK DB pension scheme will continue to receive income from the Scottish Limited Partnership.
See note 12 for further details.
The DC plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund.
Such contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with the investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals investments and how each member chooses to receive their retirement benefits.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
At the year end, the defined contribution arrangement had some 54,001 active members last year 53,661 and some 19,984 deferred members last year 12,866.
The Group also operates a small funded DB pension scheme in the Republic of Ireland.
This scheme closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
Other retirement benefits also include a UK post-retirement healthcare scheme and unfunded retirement benefits.
The total Group retirement benefit cost was 58.9m last year 198.4m.
Of this, income of 14.7m last year cost of 148.0m relates to the UK DB pension scheme which included a 127.0m curtailment charge in the prior year, 68.8m last year 45.1m to the UK DC plan and 4.8m last year 5.3m to other retirement benefit schemes.
In March 2018, the UK DB pension scheme purchased pensioner buy-in policies with two insurers covering 1.4bn of UK pensioners liabilities which is approximately one third of the pensioner portfolio.
The buy-ins transfer longevity risk to the insurers and reduce the pension risks being underwritten by the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 96 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED A.
Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities 2018 2017 m m Total market value of assets 9,989.3 10,135.1 Present value of scheme liabilities 9,029.6 9,433.3 Net funded pension plan asset 959.7 701.8 Unfunded retirement benefits 3.6 1.0 Post-retirement healthcare 7.9 8.0 Net retirement benefit surplus 948.2 692.8 Analysed in the statement of financial position as: Retirement benefit asset 970.7 706.0 Retirement benefit deficit 22.5 13.2 Net retirement benefit surplus 948.2 692.8 In the event of a plan wind-up, the pension scheme rules provide M&S with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities.
In the ordinary course of business, the Trustees have no rights to wind up or change the benefits due to members of the scheme.
As a result, any net surplus in the UK DB pension scheme is recognised in full.
Financial assumptions The financial assumptions for the UK DB pension scheme and the most recent actuarial valuations of the other post-retirement schemes have been updated by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes and are as follows: 2018 2017 % % Rate of increase in pensions in payment for service 2.0-3.2 2.0-3.2 Discount rate 2.65 2.55 Inflation rate 3.15 3.20 Long-term healthcare cost increases 7.15 7.20 C. Demographic assumptions The UK post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on an analysis of the pensioner mortality trends under the scheme for the period to March 2015.
The specific mortality rates used are based on the VITA lite tables.
The life expectancies underlying the valuation are as follows: 2018 2017 Current pensioners at age 65 male 22.3 23.2 female 25.2 24.7 Future pensioners currently in deferred status at age 65 male 24.1 24.7 female 27.0 27.1 D. Sensitivity analysis The table below summarises the estimated impact of changes in the principal actuarial assumptions on the UK DB pension scheme surplus: 2018 2017 m m Decrease in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% 70.0 70.0 Decrease in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the inflation rate of 0.25% 25.0 20.0 Increase in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the average life expectancy of one year 305.0 370.0 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while holding all others constant.
Therefore interdependencies between the assumptions have not been taken into account within the analysis.
97 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED E. Analysis of assets The investment strategy of the UK DB pension scheme is driven by its liability profile, including its inflation-linked pension benefits.
In addition to its interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership refer to note 12, the scheme invests in different types of bonds including corporate bonds and gilts and derivative instruments including inflation, interest rate, cross-currency and total return swaps in order to align movements in the value of its assets with movements in its liabilities arising from changes in market conditions.
Broadly the scheme has hedging that covers 93% of interest rate movements and 91% of inflation movements, as measured on the Trustees funding assumptions which use a discount rate derived from gilt yields.
By funding its DB pension schemes, the Group is exposed to the risk that the cost of meeting its obligations is higher than anticipated.
This could occur for several reasons, for example: Investment returns on the schemes assets may be lower than anticipated, especially if falls in asset values are not matched by similar falls in the value of the schemes liabilities.
The level of price inflation may be higher than that assumed, resulting in higher payments from the schemes.
Scheme members may live longer than assumed, for example due to advances in healthcare.
Members may also exercise or not exercise options in a way that lead to increases in the schemes liabilities, for example through early retirement or commutation of pension for cash.
Legislative changes could also lead to an increase in the schemes liabilities.
In addition, the Group is exposed to additional risks through its obligation to the UK DB pension scheme via its interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership see note 12.
In particular, under the legal terms of the Partnership, a default by the Group on the rental payments to the Partnership or a future change in legislation could trigger earlier or higher payments to the pension scheme, or an increase in the collateral to be provided by the Group.
Repurchase agreements were 920.2m last year 1,333.9m The fair values of the above equity and debt investments are based on publicly available market prices wherever available.
Unquoted investments, hedge funds and reinsurance funds are stated at fair value estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
Property includes both quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the Scottish Limited Partnership interest is based on the expected cash flows and benchmark asset-backed credit spreads.
It is the policy of the scheme to hedge a proportion of interest rate and inflation risk.
The scheme reduces its foreign currency exposure using forward foreign exchange contracts.
At year end, the UK schemes UK DB pension scheme and post-retirement healthcare indirectly held 41,046 last year 193,506 ordinary shares in the Company through its investment in UK Equity Index Funds.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 98 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED F. Analysis of amounts charged against profits Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of defined benefit retirement plans are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current service cost 0.3 47.2 Administration costs 3.5 3.2 Past service costs curtailment charge 128.0 Net interest income 17.7 29.3 Total 13.9 149.1 Remeasurement on the net defined benefit surplus: Actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 88.2 1,543.8 Actuarial gain demographic assumptions 85.1 Actuarial loss gain experience 26.3 1.5 Actuarial loss gain financial assumptions 230.3 1,614.2 Components of defined benefit income recognised in other comprehensive income 200.9 68.9 G. Scheme assets Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Fair value of scheme assets at start of year 10,135.1 8,515.3 Interest income based on discount rate 253.4 284.9 Actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 88.2 1,543.8 Employer contributions 40.7 87.7 Benefits paid 353.9 298.4 Administration costs 3.3 3.0 Exchange movement 5.5 4.8 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 9,989.3 10,135.1 1.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 164.6m last year gain of 1,828.7m.
H. Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Present value of obligation at start of year 9,442.3 7,691.2 Current service cost 0.3 47.2 Administration costs 0.2 0.2 Curtailment charge 128.0 Interest cost 235.7 255.6 Benefits paid 353.9 298.4 Actuarial loss gain - experience 26.3 1.5 Actuarial gain - demographic assumptions 85.1 Actuarial gain loss - financial assumptions 230.3 1,614.2 Exchange movement 5.6 5.8 Present value of obligation at end of year 9,041.1 9,442.3 Analysed as: Present value of pension scheme liabilities 9,029.6 9,433.3 Unfunded pension plans 3.6 1.0 Post-retirement healthcare 7.9 8.0 Present value of obligation at end of year 9,041.1 9,442.3 The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 March 2018 is 19 years last year 19 years.
99 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 MARKS AND SPENCER SCOTTISH LIMITED PARTNERSHIP Marks and Spencer plc is a general partner and the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme is a limited partner of the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
Under the partnership agreement, the limited partners have no ongoing involvement in the management of the business and shall not take any part in the control of the partnership.
The general partner is responsible for the management and control of the partnership and as such, the Partnership is consolidated into the results of the Group.
The Partnership holds 1.5bn last year 1.6bn of properties which have been leased back to Marks and Spencer plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties into the Partnership.
The first limited partnership interest held by the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme, entitles the Pension Scheme to receive an annual distribution of 71.9m until June 2022 from the Partnership.
The second limited partnership interest also held by the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme, entitles the Pension Scheme to receive a further annual distribution of 36.4m from June 2017 until June 2031.
All profits generated by the Partnership in excess of these amounts are distributable to Marks and Spencer plc.
The partnership liability in relation to the first interest of 335.5m last year 396.5m is valued at the net present value of the future expected distributions from the Partnership and is included as a liability in the Groups financial statements as it a transferable financial instrument.
During the year to 31 March 2018 an interest charge of 10.9m last year 12.6m was recognised in the income statement representing the unwinding of the discount included in this obligation.
The first limited partnership interest of the Pension Scheme is included within the UK DB Pension Scheme assets, valued at 345.4m last year 412.1m.
The second partnership interest is not a transferable financial instrument and therefore is not included as a plan asset within the UK DB pension scheme surplus reported in accordance with IAS 19.
Similarly the associated liability is not included on the Groups statement of financial position.
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS This year a charge of 18.9m was recognised for share-based payments last year charge of 10.6m.
Of the total share-based payments charge, 11.0m last year 10.9m relates to the Save As You Earn share option scheme and a charge of 2.3m last year credit of 3.6m relates to the Performance Share Plan.
The remaining charge of 5.6m last year 3.3m is spread over the other share plans.
An additional charge of 1.3m was recognised in relation to the Annual Bonus Scheme for 2016 17 last year under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
There is no charge in the current year.
Further details of the operation of the Group share plans are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 62.
Save As You Earn Scheme The SAYE scheme was approved by shareholders for a further 10 years at the 2017 AGM.
Under the terms of the scheme, the Board may offer options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company once in each financial year to those employees who enter into Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved SAYE savings contract.
The Company has chosen to cap the maximum monthly saving amount at 250 which is below the 500 per month allowed under HMRC Approved Schemes.
The price at which options may be offered is 80% of the average midmarket price for three consecutive dealing days preceding the offer date.
The options may normally be exercised during the six-month period after the completion of the SAYE contract.
2018 2017 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 43,294,094 310.6p 30,154,547 393.3p Granted 13,351,790 261.0p 28,166,455 260.0p Exercised 29,500 269.7p 1,763,039 312.8p Forfeited 7,758,295 307.1p 12,881,484 391.8p Expired 5,126,432 402.5p 382,385 355.2p Outstanding at end of year 43,731,657 285.4p 43,294,094 310.6p Exercisable at end of year 4,976,777 362.3p 4,928,971 403.5p For SAYE share options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 314.8p last year 387.4p.
The fair values of the options granted during the year have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model assuming the inputs shown below: 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 3-year plan 3-year plan 3-year plan 1 2 2 3-year plan 2016 modified 3-year plan 2016 modified 2015 modified Grant date Nov 17 Nov 17 Nov 16 Nov 16 Nov 16 Share price at grant date 298p 298p 335p 335p 335p Exercise price 261p 432p 260p 432p 369p Option life in years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Expected volatility 27.8% 27.8% 28.5% 28.5% 28.5% Expected dividend yield 6.3% 6.3% 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% Fair value of option 42p 32p 66p 19p 30p Incremental fair value of option N A 10p N A 47p 36p 1.
In the current year, there has been a modification to the 2018 scheme relating to employees cancelling awards from previous years in substitution for awards granted under the 2018 scheme.
The fair value of the modified awards will be amortised based on the incremental fair value.
The incremental fair value is the difference between the fair value of the 2018 options, being 42p, and the fair value of repriced previous awards, calculated using 2018 award assumptions, keeping the initial exercise price consistent.
The fair value of the modified options, being 10p for 2016 modified options is already recognised in operating profit.
In the prior year, there was a modification to the 2017 scheme relating to employees cancelling awards from previous years in substitution for awards granted under the 2017 scheme.
The incremental fair value is the difference between the fair value of the 2017 options, being 66p, and the fair value of repriced previous awards, calculated using 2017 award assumptions, keeping the initial exercise price consistent.
The fair value of the modified options, being 19p for 2016 modified options and 30p for 2015 modified options is already recognised in operating profit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 100 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Volatility has been estimated by taking the historic volatility in the Companys share price over a three-year period.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three years on the assumption that 10% last year 10% of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Group.
Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP is the primary long-term incentive plan for approximately 120 of the most senior managers within the Group.
It was first approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and again at the 2015 AGM.
Under the plan, annual awards, based on a percentage of salary, may be offered.
The extent to which an award vests is measured over a three-year period against financial targets which for 2017 18 included Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS, Return on Capital Employed ROCE, and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the three years will also be paid on vesting.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 - 62.
Awards under this plan have been made in each year since 2005.
During the year, 7,880,779 shares last year 7,569,499 were awarded under the plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 268.4p last year 328.0p.
As at 31 March 2018 17,624,385 shares last year 14,816,764 were outstanding under the plan.
C. Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP was introduced in 2005 06 as part of the Annual Bonus Scheme for approximately 500 of the most senior managers within the Group.
As part of the plan, the managers are required to defer a proportion of any bonus paid into shares which will be held for three years.
There are no further performance conditions on these shares, other than continued employment within the Group and the value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the deferred period will also be paid on vesting.
During the year, 1,892,215 shares last year 1,563,439 have been awarded under the Plan in relation to the annual bonus.
The fair value of the shares awarded was 343.3p last year 355.8p.
As at 31 March 2018, 4,248,291 shares last year 3,033,709 were outstanding under the plan.
D. Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan RSP was established in 2000 as part of the reward strategy for retention and recruitment of senior managers who are vital to the success of the business.
The Plan operates for senior managers below executive director level.
Awards vest at the end of the restricted period typically between one and three years subject to the participant still being in employment of the Company on the relevant vesting date.
During the year, 1,105,428 shares last year 321,229 have been awarded under the plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 314.0p last year 326.6p.
As at 31 March 2018, 1,555,748 shares last year 888,027 were outstanding under the plan.
E. Republic of Ireland Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, the Companys Save As You Earn scheme was introduced in 2009 to all employees in the Republic of Ireland for a ten-year period, after approval by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The scheme is subject to Irish Revenue rules which limit the maximum monthly saving to 500 per month.
The Company chose in 2009 to set a monthly savings cap of 320 per month to align the maximum savings amount to that allowed within the UK scheme.
The price at which options may be offered is 80% of the average mid-market price for three consecutive dealing days preceding the offer date.
During the year, 210,486 options last year 324,768 were granted, at a fair value of 41.5p last year 66.3p.
As at 31 March 2018, 644,325 options last year 521,837 were outstanding under the scheme.
F. Marks and Spencer Employee Benefit Trust The Marks and Spencer Employee Benefit Trust the Trust holds 2,247,837 last year 2,173,101 shares with a book value of 9.8m last year 10.7m and a market value of 6.1m last year 7.3m.
These shares were acquired by the Trust in the market and are shown as a reduction in retained earnings in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Awards are granted to employees at the discretion of Marks and Spencer plc and the Trust agrees to satisfy the awards in accordance with the wishes of Marks and Spencer plc under senior executive share plans described above.
Dividends are waived on all of these shares.
G. ShareBuy ShareBuy, the Companys share incentive plan enables the participants to buy shares directly from their gross salary.
This scheme does not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
All DSBP awards and 297,114 of the RSP awards last year 321,229 were nil cost options, all remaining shares awarded were nil cost awards.
For the purposes of calculating the number of shares awarded, the share price used is the average of the mid-market price for the five consecutive dealing days preceding the grant date.
101 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Computer under Goodwill Brands Software development Total m m m m m At 2 April 2016 Cost or valuation 136.2 112.3 1,272.0 89.4 1,609.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairments 53.5 93.6 644.3 15.7 807.1 Net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 Year ended 1 April 2017 Opening net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 Additions 0.3 100.8 101.1 Transfers 95.8 107.6 11.8 Asset Impairments 6.1 5.1 1.0 Asset write-offs 9.6 2.9 12.5 Amortisation charge 5.3 162.1 167.4 1 Other 5.5 5.5 Exchange difference 1.2 0.2 0.1 1.3 Closing net book value 78.4 13.4 558.4 58.8 709.0 At 1 April 2017 Cost or valuation 137.4 112.3 1,368.3 82.5 1,700.5 Accumulated amortisation, impairments and write-offs 59.0 98.9 809.9 23.7 991.5 Net book value 78.4 13.4 558.4 58.8 709.0 Year ended 31 March 2018 Opening net book value 78.4 13.4 558.4 58.8 709.0 Additions 0.2 74.1 74.3 Transfers 94.2 89.2 5.0 Asset impairments Asset write-offs 5.8 1.7 7.5 Amortisation charge 5.3 175.4 180.7 Exchange difference 1.0 0.3 0.2 0.9 Closing net book value 77.4 8.1 471.9 41.8 599.2 At 31 March 2018 Cost or valuation 136.4 112.3 1,400.0 65.6 1,714.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairments and write-offs 59.0 104.2 928.1 23.8 1,115.1 Net book value 77.4 8.1 471.9 41.8 599.2 Goodwill relate to the following groups of cash generating units CGUs : per una India UK Total goodwill m m m m Net book value at 1 April 2017 69.5 8.2 0.7 78.4 Exchange difference 1.0 1.0 Net book value at 31 March 2018 69.5 7.2 0.7 77.4 1.
Other adjustments relate to the adjustment of the provision values for business combinations related to the acquisition of Lima Bradford S.. r. l in the prior period.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 102 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Impairment testing Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount being determined from value in use calculations.
Goodwill for India and the UK has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash-generating units CGUs which include the combined retail and wholesale businesses for each location.
The costs in relation to the per una brand are 80.0m net book value 8m.
The per una brand is a definite life intangible asset amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of 15 years and is only assessed for impairment where such indicators exist.
The per una goodwill and brand are allocated for impairment testing purposes to a single CGU.
The key estimates that management uses in the value in use calculations are expected changes to future cash flows and discount rates.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to each CGU.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the specific risks relating to each CGU.
The cash flows used for impairment testing are based on the Groups latest budget and forecast cash flows, covering a three-year period, which have regard to historic performance and knowledge of the current market, together with the Groups views on the future achievable growth and the impact of committed cash flows.
The cash flows include ongoing capital expenditure required to maintain the store network, but exclude any growth capital initiatives not committed.
Cash flows beyond this three-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate based on the Groups current view of achievable long-term growth.
The long-term growth rates do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the UK, the long-term growth rate in the Groups Clothing & Home business or the long-term growth rate in India.
Management has performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions both with other variables held constant and with other variables simultaneously changed.
Management has concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumptions that would cause the carrying amounts of goodwill or brands to exceed the value in use for India or the UK.
However, the context in which these estimates have been made for the per una CGU is more uncertain due to the significant change in the UK retail market.
The following key assumptions would have to change as follows to eliminate the headroom in the per una CGU: In the short-term, assuming that cost reductions are materially in line with plan, the key assumption driving the value in use calculated is the ability to deliver cash flow forecasts.
Cash flow forecasts in each of the years covered by the three-year plan would have to be 38% below current expectations to eliminate the headroom in the per una CGU: In the medium to long-term, the key assumption driving the value in use is the ability to generate profitable growth in the context of significant change in the UK retail market.
This is reflected within the estimate of the long-term growth rate of -3.0%.
Long-term growth rates, including a commensurate decline in cash flows over the period of the Groups three-year plan, would have to decline by 9.4% to eliminate the headroom in these calculations: and, An increase of 9.2% in the pre-tax discount rate to 17.8% would eliminate the headroom in the per una CGU.
The net book value above includes land and buildings of 41.6m last year 42.1m and equipment of nil last year nil where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease.
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to nil last year nil were financed by finance leases.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment For impairment testing purposes, the Group has determined that each store is a separate CGU, with the exception of outlet stores, which are considered together as one CGU.
Each CGU is tested for impairment at the balance sheet date if any indicators of impairment have been identified.
One of the indicators of impairment is whether a store is identified within the Groups UK store estate programme see note 5.
The recoverable value of each CGU is determined to be the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use of each CGU is calculated based on the Groups latest budget and forecast cash flows, covering a three-year period, which have regard to historic performance and knowledge of the current market, together with the Groups views on the future achievable growth and the impact of committed initiatives.
Cash flows beyond this three-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate for UK stores based on historic growth rates and management future expectations, with reference to forecast GDP growth for other territories.
These growth rates do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the Groups retail businesses in these territories.
If the CGU relates to a store which the Group has been identified as part of the UK store estate programme, the value in use calculated has been modified by estimation of the future cash flows up to the point where it is estimated that trade will cease and then estimation of the timing and amount of costs associated with closure detailed fully in note 5.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 104 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Impairment of property, plant and equipment continued The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the growth rates of sales and gross profit margins, changes in the operating cost base, long-term growth rates and the risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which specific market-related premium adjustments are made for each territory.
The pre-tax discount rates range from 8% to 15% last year 7% to 21%.
If the CGU relates to a store which the Group has identified as part of the UK store estate programme, the additional key assumptions in the value in use calculations are costs associated with closure, the proceeds and timing of exit.
Where appropriate, fair value less cost to sell is determined with regard to the expected rent and yield for each property and reflect the specific characteristics relevant to each property and the location in which it is based.
The fair values have been determined with the assistance of independent, professional valuers.
During the year, the Group has recognised an impairment charge of 196.2m and no impairment reversal as a result of the announced UK store estate programme.
The impairment charge relates to the acceleration in the year of the programme announced in November 2016 see note 5.
These impairments have been recognised within adjusting items see note 5.
The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests associated with the UK store estate programme.
A delay of 12 months in the probable date of each store exit would result in a decrease in the impairment charge of 43.2m.
A 2% reduction in the year 1 sales growth would result in an increase in the impairment charge of 5.5m.
Neither a 1% increase in the discount rate, a 20 basis point reduction in gross margin during the period of trading nor a 2% increase in the costs associated with exiting a store would result in a significant increase to the impairment charge.
During the year the Group has recognised an impairment charge of 11.9m and no impairment reversals as a result of store impairment testing unrelated to the UK store estate programme.
The gross impairment charge relates to stores in the UK.
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions in the impairment model for those UK stores not expected to be included in the UK store estate programme described above.
A 1% reduction in the sales growth would result in an increase in the impairment charge of 1.0m and a 20 basis point reduction in gross margin would increase the impairment charge by 0.4m.
A 100 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate would increase the impairment charge by 5.4m.
16 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2018 2017 m m Non-current Unlisted investments 9.9 3.0 Current Short-term investments 13.7 14.5 1.
Includes 5.8m last year 5.3m of money market deposit held by Marks and Spencer plc in an escrow account, as part of the Groups self-funded captive insurance scheme.
Non-current unlisted investments are carried as available-for-sale assets.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in their value taken to the income statement.
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 m m Non-current Other receivables 2.3 15.1 Prepayments and accrued income 206.7 219.0 209.0 234.1 Current Trade receivables 114.3 111.0 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 0.4 1.7 Trade receivables net 113.9 109.3 Other receivables 30.9 28.5 Prepayments and accrued income 163.6 180.8 308.4 318.6 Trade and other receivables that were past due but not impaired amounted to 21.3m last year 20.8m and are mainly sterling denominated.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Included in prepayments and accrued income is 28.2m last year 31.5m of accrued supplier income relating to rebates which have been earned but not yet invoiced.
Supplier income that has been invoiced but not yet settled against future trade creditor balances is included within trade creditors where there is a right to offset.
The remaining amount is immaterial.
18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are 207.7m last year 468.6m.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 0.40% last year 0.21%.
These deposits have an average maturity of 23 days last year eight days.
105 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2018 2017 m m Current Trade and other payables 872.9 967.5 Social security and other taxes 57.1 55.0 Accruals and deferred income 475.9 531.3 1,405.9 1,553.8 Non-current Other payables, accruals and deferred income 333.8 328.5 20 BORROWINGS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2018 2017 m m Current 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 88.4 70.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.4 3,4 6.250% US$500m medium-term notes 2017 328.1 Interest accrued on medium-term notes 36.9 46.4 Revaluation of medium-term notes 72.8 125.6 518.0 Non-current 2,5 6.125% 400m medium-term notes 2019 400.1 400.2 2 6.125% 300m medium-term notes 2021 298.2 297.8 2 3.00% 300m medium-term notes 2023 296.9 296.3 2,5 4.75% 400m medium-term notes 2025 397.5 397.1 3,4 7.125% US$300m medium-term notes 2037 192.0 191.9 Revaluation of medium-term notes 38.2 80.1 Finance lease liabilities 47.7 48.3 1,670.6 1,711.7 Total 1,796.2 2,229.7 1.
Bank loans and overdrafts include a 5.0m last year 5.0m loan from the Hedge End Park Limited joint venture see note 28.
These notes are issued under Marks and Spencer plcs 3bn European medium-term note programme and all pay interest annually.
Interest on these bonds is payable semi-annually.
US$500m and US$300m medium-term notes exposure swapped to sterling fixed-to-fixed cross currency interest rate swaps.
The Group occasionally enters into interest swaps to manage interest rate exposure.
At year end, the 425m last year 425m was swapped from fixed to floating rate.
Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as shown in the table on the following page.
The weighted average lease term for equipment is two years last year three years and 93 years last year 95 years for property.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract rate.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Treasury policy The Group operates a centralised treasury function to manage the Groups funding requirements and financial risks in line with the Board approved treasury policies and procedures, and their delegated authorities.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group treasury function also enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate and foreign currency risks arising from the Groups operations and financing.
It remains the Groups policy not to hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes, except where financial constraints necessitate the need to liquidate any outstanding investments.
The treasury function is managed as a cost centre and does not engage in speculative trading.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 106 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity and funding, interest rate, foreign currency and counterparty risks.
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised on the following pages: a Liquidity and funding risk The risk that the Group could be unable to settle or meet its obligations at a reasonable price as they fall due: The Groups funding strategy ensures a mix of funding sources offering sufficient headroom, maturity and flexibility and cost effectiveness to match the requirements of the Group.
Marks & Spencer plc is financed by a combination of retained profits, bank borrowings, medium-term notes and a committed syndicated bank facility.
Operating subsidiaries are financed by a combination of retained profits, bank borrowings and intercompany loans.
At year end, the Group had a committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility of 1.1bn set to mature on 15 April 2023, following the Groups second and final request to extend the facility by one further year.
The facility contains only one financial covenant, being the ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rents payable: to interest plus rents payable.
The covenant is measured semi-annually.
The Group also has a number of uncommitted facilities available to it.
At year end, these amounted to 100m last year 150m, all of which are due to be reviewed within a year.
At the balance sheet date a sterling equivalent of nil last year nil was drawn under the committed facilities and 45m last year nil was drawn under the uncommitted facilities.
In addition to the existing borrowings, the Group has a Euro Medium Term Note programme of 3bn, of which 1.4bn last year 1.4bn was in issuance as at the balance sheet date.
Derivative cash flows are disclosed based on actual settlement.
All derivatives are settled net, except for currency swaps.
The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 0.3 0.4 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.1 1.6 Later than five years 46.6 46.7 Total 48.0 48.7 107 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued b Counterparty risk Counterparty risk exists where the Group can suffer financial loss through the default or non-performance of the financial institutions with whom it transacts.
Exposures are managed in accordance with the Group treasury policy which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The minimum long-term rating for all counterparties is long-term Standard & Poors AMoodys A3 BBB Baa1 for committed lending banks.
In the event of a rating by one agency being different to the other, reference will be made to Fitch to determine the casting vote of the rating group.
In the absence of a Fitch rating the lower agency rating will prevail.
Limits are reviewed regularly by senior management.
The credit risk of these financial instruments is estimated as the fair value of the assets resulting from the contracts.
The table below analyses the Groups short-term investments and derivative assets by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash and cash in transit.
Includes cash on deposit and money market funds held by Marks & Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership, Marks & Spencer plc and Marks & Spencer General Insurance.
Excludes cash in hand and in transit 149.6m last year 116.9m.
Standard & Poors equivalent rating shown as reference to the majority credit rating of the counterparty from either Standard & Poors, Moodys or Fitch where applicable.
The Group has a very low retail credit risk due to transactions principally being of high volume, low value and short maturity.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was as follows: trade receivables 114m last year 111m, other receivables 33m last year 44m, cash and cash equivalents 208m last year 469m and derivatives 34m last year 220m.
c Foreign currency risk Transactional foreign currency exposure arises primarily from the import of goods sourced from overseas suppliers and also from the export of goods from the UK to overseas subsidiaries.
The most significant exposure is to the US dollar, incurred in the sourcing of Clothing & Home products from Asia.
Group Treasury hedges these exposures principally using forward foreign exchange contracts progressively based on dynamic forecasts from the business.
Hedging begins around 15 months ahead of the start of the season, with between 80% and 100% of the risk hedged nine months before the start of the season.
Other exposures arising from the export of goods to overseas subsidiaries are also hedged progressively over the course of the year before they are incurred.
As at the balance sheet date, the gross notional value in sterling terms of forward foreign exchange sell or buy contracts amounted to 1,963m last year 2,023m with a weighted average maturity date of six months last year six months.
Gains and losses in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts designated in cash flow hedge relationships as at 31 March 2018 will be released to the income statement at various dates over the following 17 months last year 17 months from the balance sheet date.
The Group previously used a combination of foreign currency debt and foreign exchange contracts to hedge its net balance sheet translation exposure by currency arising from investment in overseas operations.
The treasury policy was changed during the current financial year and the Group no longer hedges these.
Last year, 26m and HK$190m of foreign exchange contracts were in place hedging overseas net assets.
The Group also holds a number of cross currency swaps to designate its fixed rate US dollar debt to fixed rate sterling debt.
These are reported as cash flow hedges.
The Group also hedges foreign currency intercompany loans where these exist.
Forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the hedging of the Groups foreign currency intercompany loans are designated as held for trading with fair value movements being recognised in the income statement.
The corresponding fair value movement of the intercompany loan balance resulted in a 3.3m gain last year 2.3m gain in the income statement.
As at the balance sheet date, the gross notional value of intercompany loan hedges was 217m last year 367m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 108 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued c Foreign currency risk continued After taking into account the hedging derivatives entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposure of the Groups financial liabilities excluding short-term payables and the liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme, is set out below: 2018 2017 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total m m m m m m Currency Sterling 1,276.2 511.6 1,787.8 1,727.8 492.3 2,220.1 Euro 6.5 6.5 6.6 0.7 7.3 Other 0.1 1.8 1.9 0.1 2.2 2.3 1,282.8 513.4 1,796.2 1,734.5 495.2 2,229.7 The floating rate sterling and euro borrowings are linked to interest rates related to LIBOR.
These rates are for periods between one and six months.
As at the balance sheet date and excluding finance leases, the fixed rate sterling borrowings are at an average rate of 4.7% last year 5.0% and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is six years last year six years.
d Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to sterling, US dollar and euro variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy is to use derivative contracts where necessary to maintain a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings to manage this risk.
The structure and maturity of these derivatives correspond to the underlying borrowings and are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges as appropriate.
At the balance sheet date, fixed rate borrowings amounted to 1,282.8m last year 1,734.5m representing the public bond issues and finance leases, amounting to 71% last year 78% of the Groups gross borrowings.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2018 2017 % % Committed and uncommitted borrowings 1.0 0.3 Medium-term notes 4.7 5.0 Finance leases 4.3 4.3 Derivative financial instruments 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current Cross-currency swaps cash flow hedges 72.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 5.1 73.6 89.1 9.0 held for trading 2.0 0.2 0.7 1.5 net investment hedges 0.7 7.1 73.8 163.1 10.5 Non-current Cross-currency swaps cash flow hedges 26.7 14.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.4 4.0 1.3 0.8 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 26.7 41.5 27.1 30.7 56.8 0.8 The Group holds a number of interest rate swaps to re-designate its sterling fixed debt to floating debt.
These are reported as fair value hedges.
The ineffective portion recognised in the profit or loss that arises from fair value hedges amounts to a 0.4m gain last year 0.3m as the gain on the hedged items was 15.0m last year 0.3m and the movement on the hedging instruments was 14.6m loss last year nil.
The Group holds a number of cross currency interest rate swaps to re-designate its USD to GBP fixed debt.
The ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss that arises from the cash flow hedges amounts to a 2.3m loss last year nil as the gain on the hedged items was 24.9m last year nil and the movement on the hedging instruments was 27.2m loss last year nil.
109 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of market movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Groups financial instruments.
The directors consider that a 2% - last year 2% movement in interest and a 20% - last year 20% weakening in sterling against the relevant currency represents a reasonable possible change.
However this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
The table excludes financial instruments that expose the Group to interest rate and foreign exchange risk where such a risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
Also excluded are trade receivables and payables as these are either sterling denominated or the foreign exchange risk is hedged.
Interest rates: the impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates reflects the effect on the Groups floating rate debt as at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity reflects the fair value movement in relation to the Groups transactional foreign exchange cash flow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity reflects the fair value movement in relation to the Groups cross-currency swaps.
Foreign exchange: the impact from foreign exchange movements reflects the change in the fair value of the Groups transactional foreign exchange cash flow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The equity impact shown for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging net investments.
This value is expected to be fully offset by the re-translation of the hedged foreign currency net assets leaving a net equity impact of zero.
2% decrease in 2% increase in 20% weakening 20% strengthening interest rates interest rates in sterling in sterling m m m m At 1 April 2017 Impact on income statement: gain loss 7.8 2.1 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 2.2 0.3 246.4 164.3 At 31 March 2018 Impact on income statement: gain loss 8.9 9.1 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 15.6 10.6 215.7 222.4 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet are set out below.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, amounts not offset in the balance sheet but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also set out.
Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in Gross financial liabilities per statement of the statement of assets liabilities assets set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 1 April 2017 Trade and other receivables 25.1 22.8 2.3 2.3 Derivative financial assets 219.9 219.9 11.3 208.6 Cash and cash equivalents 42.4 41.6 0.8 0.8 287.4 64.4 223.0 11.3 211.7 Trade and other payables 279.2 22.8 256.4 256.4 Derivative financial liabilities 11.3 11.3 11.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 103.9 41.6 62.3 62.3 394.4 64.4 330.0 11.3 318.7 Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in Gross financial liabilities per statement of the statement of assets liabilities assets set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 31 March 2018 Trade and other receivables 31.3 29.9 1.4 1.4 Derivative financial assets 34.2 34.2 34.2 Cash and cash equivalents 46.3 46.0 0.3 0.3 111.8 75.9 35.9 34.2 1.7 Trade and other payables 276.4 29.9 246.5 246.5 Derivative financial liabilities 104.5 104.5 34.2 70.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 82.5 46.0 36.5 36.5 463.4 75.9 387.5 34.2 353.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 110 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities continued The gross financial assets and liabilities set out in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Fair Value Hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2: not traded in an active market but the fair values are based on quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups level 2 financial instruments includes interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
Fair value is calculated using discounted cash flow methodology, future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange rates and interest rates from observable market curves and contract rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties for those with a long maturity: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
No level 3 instruments were in place at the year end.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group held the following financial instruments at fair value: 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss trading derivatives 2.0 2.0 0.7 0.7 Derivatives used for hedging 32.2 32.2 219.2 219.2 Shortterm investments 13.7 13.7 14.5 14.5 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss trading derivatives 0.2 0.2 1.5 1.5 Derivatives used for hedging 104.3 104.3 9.8 9.8 The Marks & Spencer UK DB Pension Schemes holds a number of financial instruments which make up the pension asset of 9,989.3m last year 10,135.1m.
Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income amounted to 7,152.4m last year 8,690.2m.
Additionally, the scheme assets include 2,836.9m last year 1,444.9m of Level 3 financial assets.
See note 11 for information on the Groups retirement benefits.
There were no transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In addition to the above, the Group has 9.9m last year 3.0m in unlisted equity securities measured at fair value see note 16.
The following table represents the changes in Level 3 instruments held by the Pension Schemes: 2018 2017 m m Opening balance 1,444.9 1,219.1 Fair value loss gain recognised in other comprehensive income 74.9 100.6 Additional investment derecognition 1,466.9 125.2 Closing balance 2,836.9 1,444.9 Fair value of financial instruments With the exception of the Groups fixed rate bond debt and the Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme, there were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of the Groups fixed rate bond debt level 1 equivalent was 1,659.9m last year 2,110.7m, the fair value of this debt was 1,761.0m last year 2,236.7m.
111 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Capital policy The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide optimal returns for shareholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In doing so the Groups strategy is to maintain a capital structure commensurate with an investment grade credit rating and to retain appropriate levels of liquidity headroom to ensure financial stability and flexibility.
To achieve this strategy the Group regularly monitors key credit metrics such as the gearing ratio, cash flow to net debt and fixed charge cover to maintain this position.
In addition, the Group ensures a combination of appropriate committed short-term liquidity headroom with a diverse and balanced long-term debt maturity profile.
As at the balance sheet date the Groups average debt maturity profile was six years last year seven years.
During the year the Group maintained an investment grade credit rating of Baa3 stable with Moodys and BBBstable with Standard & Poors.
In order to maintain or realign the capital structure, the Group may adjust the number of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
22 PROVISIONS Property Restructuring Other 2018 2017 m m m m m At 1 April 2017 128.7 101.6 30.4 260.7 66.0 Provided in the year 135.2 23.7 28.1 187.0 246.0 Released in the year 12.6 12.9 3.3 28.8 26.3 Utilised during the year 23.5 85.9 23.6 133.0 30.2 Exchange differences 0.3 1.9 2.2 3.4 Discount rate unwind 5.2 5.2 0.2 Reclassification from trade and other payables 1.4 1.4 1.6 At 31 March 2018 233.3 28.4 30.2 291.9 260.7 Analysed as: Current 98.8 147.2 Non-current 193.1 113.5 Property provisions relate to onerous lease contracts and dilapidations primarily arising as a result of the closure of stores in the UK, as part of the UK Store Estate strategic programme, together with the centralisation of the London Head Office functions into one building.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to the end of each specific lease.
Restructuring provisions relate to the estimated costs associated with the International exit strategy and the strategic programme to transition to a single tier UK distribution network.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within the next year.
Other provisions include amounts in respect of potential liabilities for employee-related matters.
The utilisation during the year primarily related to the payment of transition amounts in respect of pay and premia.
Please see note 5 for further information on these provisions.
23 DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided under the balance sheet liability method using the tax rate at which the balances are expected to unwind of 19% and 17% as applicable last year 19% and 17% for UK differences and local tax rates for overseas differences.
Details of the changes to the UK corporation tax rate and the impact on the Group are described in Note 7.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets liabilities : Land and Capital Other shortbuildings allowances in Pension term temporary excess of temporary temporary Total UK Overseas differences depreciation differences differences deferred tax deferred tax Total m m m m m m m At 2 April 2016 46.8 80.1 205.5 1.9 334.3 3.3 337.6 Credited charged to income statement 3.5 17.7 14.5 1.4 37.1 0.7 36.4 Credited charged to equity other comprehensive income 21.6 4.8 26.4 5.2 21.2 Other Balance Sheet movement 1.6 1.6 0.2 1.8 At 1 April 2017 43.3 62.4 169.4 2.7 272.4 9.4 281.8 At 2 April 2017 43.3 62.4 169.4 2.7 272.4 9.4 281.8 Credited charged to income statement 8.0 33.1 1.2 1.3 43.6 1.7 45.3 Credited charged to equity other comprehensive income 39.8 19.9 19.9 0.5 19.4 Other Balance Sheet movement 1.4 1.4 1.2 0.2 At 31 March 2018 33.9 29.3 208.0 23.9 247.3 8.4 255.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 112 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Other short-term term temporary differences relate mainly to employee share options and financial instruments.
The deferred tax liability on land and buildings temporary differences is reduced by the benefit of capital losses with a gross value of 283.2m last year 254.5m and a tax value of 53.8m last year 48.4m.
Due to uncertainty over their future use, no benefit has been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward in overseas jurisdictions with a gross value of 80.1m last year 147.9m and a tax value of 16.9m last year 34.2m.
No deferred tax is recognised in respect of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures with a gross value of 48.4m last year 38.2m unless a material liability is expected to arise on distribution of these earnings under applicable tax legislation.
There is a potential tax liability in respect of undistributed earnings of 11.5m last year 9.0m however this has not been recognised on the basis the distribution can be controlled by the Group.
24 ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL 2018 2017 Shares m Shares m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each At start of year 1,624,727,846 406.2 1,622,964,807 405.8 Shares issued on exercise of share options 29,500 1,763,039 0.4 At end of year 1,624,757,346 406.2 1,624,727,846 406.2 Issue of new shares 29,500 last year 1,763,039 ordinary shares having a nominal value of 0.0m last year 0.4m were allotted during the year under the terms of the Companys schemes which are described in note 13.
The aggregate consideration received was 0.1m last year 5.5m.
Capital commitments 2018 2017 m m Commitments in respect of properties in the course of construction 121.8 156.4 Software capital commitments 17.2 11.0 139.0 167.4 B.
Other material contracts In the event of termination of our trading arrangements with certain warehouse operators, the Group has a number of options and commitments to purchase some property, plant and equipment, at values ranging from historical net book value to market value, which are currently owned and operated by the warehouse operators on the Groups behalf.
See note 12 for details on the partnership arrangement with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme.
C. Commitments under operating leases The Group leases various stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2018 2017 m m Total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 288.5 342.0 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,026.1 1,115.9 Later than five years and not later than ten years 896.8 964.1 Later than ten years and not later than 15 years 503.8 421.9 Later than 15 years and not later than 20 years 304.6 285.3 Later than 20 years and not later than 25 years 149.4 166.8 Later than 25 years 1,026.8 1,069.5 Total 4,196.0 4,365.5 The total future sublease payments to be received are 27.4m last year 34.6m.
Of the total commitments under operating leases disclosed above, 172.5m 2017: 129.1m is already provided for on the balance sheet as onerous lease provisions with regards to stores identified as part of the UK store estate programme.
In relation to the International strategic programme, in 2017, 70m of total commitments under operating leases are already provided for with regards to expected lease exit costs.
No commitments remain in the current year relating to the International strategic programme.
113 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS GIVEN IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash flows from operating activities 2018 2017 m m Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 29.1 115.7 Income tax expense 37.7 60.7 Finance costs 113.8 113.0 Finance income 24.1 36.2 Operating profit 156.5 253.2 Increase decrease in inventories 38.2 53.9 Decrease increase in receivables 28.8 9.9 Decrease in payables 87.4 51.5 Adjusting items net cash outflows 153.1 36.8 Non-cash share-based payment charges 18.9 10.6 Depreciation, amortisation and write-offs 580.6 589.5 Defined benefit pension funding 41.4 36.6 Adjusting items non-cash 34.7 44.1 Adjusting operating profit items 514.1 437.4 Cash generated from operations 944.1 1,165.7 Adjusting items net cash outflows relate to the utilisation of the provisions for international store closures, strategic programme costs associated with both the UK store estate, UK organisation, UK logistics, IT reorganisation and changes to pay and pensions.
Adjusting items non-cash relate to the reduction in M&S Bank income for the impact of the financial product mis-selling provision.
27 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT A. Reconciliation of movement in net debt Exchange and At 2 April other non-cash At 31 March 2017 Cash flow movements 2018 m m m m Net cash Bank loans, overdrafts and syndicated bank facility see note 20 70.3 18.1 88.4 Less: amounts treated as financing see below 7.9 43.8 51.7 62.4 25.7 36.7 Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 468.6 257.4 3.5 207.7 Net cash per statement of cash flows 406.2 231.7 3.5 171.0 Current financial assets see note 16 14.5 0.8 13.7 Debt financing Bank loans, and overdrafts treated as financing see above 7.9 43.8 51.7 Medium-term notes see note 20 1,911.4 328.2 1.5 1,584.7 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.7 2.6 1.9 48.0 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 387.4 59.6 327.8 Debt financing 2,355.4 346.6 3.4 2,012.2 Net debt 1,934.7 114.1 6.9 1,827.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 114 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT CONTINUED B. Reconciliation of net debt to statement of financial position 2018 2017 m m Statement of financial position and related notes Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 207.7 468.6 Current financial assets see note 16 13.7 14.5 Bank loans and overdrafts see note 20 88.4 70.3 Medium-term notes net of hedging derivatives 1,621.7 1,957.8 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.0 48.7 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 and 21 335.5 396.5 1,872.2 1,990.2 Interest payable included within related borrowing and the partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme 44.7 55.5 Total net debt 1,827.5 1,934.7 28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A.
Subsidiaries Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Hedge End joint venture A loan of 5.0m was received from the joint venture on 9 October 2002.
It is repayable on five business days notice and was renewed on 31 December 2017.
Interest was charged on the loan at 2.0% until 31 December 2009 and 0.5% thereafter.
C. Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme Details of other transactions and balances held with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme are set out in notes 11 and 12.
D. Key management compensation The Group has determined that the key management personnel constitute the Board and the members of the Operating Committee.
For the prior year, the members of the Board were considered to be key management personnel for the whole year, and members of the Operating Committee with effect from November 2016 when the terms of reference of the Operating Committee were ratified.
2018 2017 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 7.9 8.1 Share-based payments 0.4 Total 8.3 8.1
