Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Significant accounting policies Marshalls plc the Company is a Public Company limited by shares, incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act and is registered in England and Wales.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 14 March 2019.
The Companys registered address is Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, Elland, HX5 9HT.
The following paragraphs summarise the significant accounting policies of the Group, which have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU and therefore the Group Financial Statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and International Financial Reporting Committee relevant to its operations and which are effective in respect of these Financial Statements.
Adoption of new standards in 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers superseded IAS 18, Revenue, and has been adopted from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 establishes a principles-based approach to revenue recognition and measurement based on the concept of recognising revenue when performance obligations are satisfied.
The adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, has been adopted from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 has introduced new classification and measurements requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities.
These changes have not had a material impact on the Groups Financial Statements.
Amendments to IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2018.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amendments to IFRS 2: The amendments clarify the following: Classification and a In estimating the fair value of a cash settled share-based payment, the accounting for the effects of vesting Measurement of Share-based Payment and non-vesting conditions should follow the same approach as for equity settled share-based payments: Transactions.
b Where tax law or regulation requires an entity to withhold a specified number of equity instruments equal to the monetary value of the employees tax obligation to meet the employees tax liability which is then remitted to the tax authority typically in cash, i. e. the share-based payment arrangement has a net settlement feature, such an arrangement should be classified as equity settled in its entirety, provided that the share-based payment would have been classified as equity settled had it not included the net settlement feature: and c How the modification of a share-based payment that changes the transaction from cash settled to equity settled should be accounted for.
Amendments to The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 40, Transfers of Investment Property, for the first time in the IAS 40: Transfers of current year.
The amendments clarify that a transfer to, or from, investment property necessitates an Investment Property.
assessment of whether a property meets, or has ceased to meet, the definition of investment property, supported by observable evidence that a change in use has occurred.
The amendments further clarify that the situations listed in IAS 40 are not exhaustive and that a change in use is possible for properties under construction i. e. a change in use is not limited to completed properties.
Annual Improvements The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 28 included in the Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle for the first time in the current year.
The amendments clarify that the option for a venture 2014-2016 Cycle.
capital organisation and other similar entities to measure investments in associates and joint ventures at FVTPL is available separately for each associate or joint venture, and that election should be made at initial recognition.
In respect of the option for an entity that is not an investment entity IE to retain the fair value measurement applied by its associates and joint ventures that are IEs when applying the equity method, the amendments make a similar clarification that this choice is available for each IE associate or IE joint venture.
IFRIC 22 Foreign IFRIC 22 addresses how to determine the date of transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange Currency rate to use on initial recognition of an asset, expense or income, when consideration for that item has been Transactions paid or received in advance in a foreign currency which resulted in the recognition of a non-monetary asset and Advance or non-monetary liability for example, a non-refundable deposit or deferred revenue.
The Interpretation specifies that the date of transaction is the date on which the entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration.
If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Interpretation requires an entity to determine the date of transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.
Marshalls plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following new or revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and, in some cases, have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 amendments Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation effective 1 January 2019 IAS 28 amendments Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures effective 1 January 2019 IAS 19 amendments Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement effective 1 January 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts effective 1 January 2021 IAS 1 and IAS 8 Definition of Material effective 1 January 2020 IAS Conceptual Framework Definition of Material effective 1 January 2020 Annual Improvements to IFRSs Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 12 Income Tax and 2015 - 2017 Cycle IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective 1 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective 1 January 2019 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods, except as noted below: IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019 and replaces IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations.
It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet by lessees, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer.
Distinctions of operating leases off balance sheet and finance leases on balance sheet are removed for lessee accounting, and are replaced by a model where a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability have to be recognised for all leases by lessees i. e. all on balance sheet except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost subject to certain exceptions less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date.
Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected because operating lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash flows, whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively.
In adopting IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019, the Group is applying the modified retrospective transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2018.
For certain leases the Group has elected to measure the right-of-use asset as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the start of the lease, but using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2019, with the difference between the right-of-use asset and the lease liability taken to retained earnings.
In other cases, the Group is electing to measure right-of-use assets at the amount of the lease liability on adoption adjusted for any lease prepayments or accrued lease expenses, onerous lease provisions and leased assets which have subsequently been sub-leased.
The Group has elected to adopt the following practical expedients on transition: where an onerous lease provision is in existence, to utilise this provision to reduce the right-of-use asset value rather than undertaking an impairment review: to use hindsight in determining the lease term: to exclude initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset: and to apply the portfolio approach where a group of leases has similar characteristics.
Impact of adoption of IFRS 16 Leases Upon transition on 1 January 2019, the Group will recognise a right-of-use lease asset that is expected to be between 42 million and 47 million and a financial lease liability that is expected to be between 44 million and 51 million.
A transition adjustment that is expected to be between 2 million and 4 million will be taken to retained earnings along with an opening deferred taxation adjustment.
The change in presentation, as a result of the adoption of IFRS 16, will see an improvement in cash flow generated from operating activities, offset by a corresponding decline in cash flow from financing activities.
There is no overall cash flow impact from the adoption of the new standard.
Depreciation of the right-of-use asset will be recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis, with interest recognised on the lease liability.
This will result in a change to the profile of the net charge taken to the Income Statement over the life of the lease.
These charges will replace the lease costs currently charged to the Income Statement.
The Group results announcement for the half year ending 30 June 2019 will be the first to be prepared under IFRS 16.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 66.5 million.
IAS 17 does not require the recognition of any right-of-use asset or liability for future payments for these leases: instead, certain information is disclosed as operating lease commitments in Note 25.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued a Statement of compliance The Group Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The Parent Company has elected to prepare its Financial Statements in accordance with FRS 101 and these are presented on pages 124 to 131. b Basis of preparation The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, Note 16 includes the Groups policies and procedures for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups funding position are set out in Note 16 and are subject to normal covenant arrangements.
The Groups on-demand overdraft facility is reviewed on an annual basis and the current arrangements were renewed and signed on 9 August 2018.
In the opinion of the Directors there are sufficient unutilised facilities held which mature after 12 months.
The Groups performance is dependent on economic and market conditions, the outlook for which is difficult to predict.
Based on current expectations, the Groups cash forecasts continue to meet half year and year-end bank covenants and there is adequate headroom which is not dependent on facility renewals.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and liabilities for cash settled share-based payments.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements and are also set out on the Companys website www.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
Sterling is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
These are set out in Note 28 on page 123.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 28. c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries which are set out in detail in Note 32 on pages 128 and 129 are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved when the Company: has power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 1 or more of the 3 elements of control listed above.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it considers that it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally.
The Company considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Companys voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: the size of the Companys holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Marshalls plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued c Basis of consolidation continued ii Associates equity-accounted investees Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method equity-accounted investees and are recognised initially at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity-accounted investees, after adjustment to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
iv Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling shareholders that are present ownership interests, entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets, are initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at the initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
d Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, fuel pricing and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement when incurred.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy f. The Group has applied IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
The Group has elected not to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9.
Classification and measurement The classification of financial assets is based both on the business model within which the asset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are 3 principal classification categories for financial assets that are debt instruments: i amortised cost, ii fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and iii fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Equity investments in scope of IFRS 9 are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives embedded in financial assets are not bifurcated but instead the whole hybrid contract is assessed for classification.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets can be designated as at FVTPL to mitigate an accounting mismatch.
In respect to classification and measurement of financial liabilities, changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as at FVTPL due to credit risk are presented in other comprehensive income unless such presentation would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
The change in the classification and measurement of listed redeemable notes has not had a material impact on the Group Financial Statements.
Impairment Credit losses and expected credit losses are recognised in accordance with IFRS 9.
The amount of expected credit losses are updated at each reporting date.
The IFRS 9 impairment model has been applied to the Groups financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI as well as the Groups finance lease receivables, contract assets and issued financial guarantee contracts.
The Group has applied the simplified approach to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for its trade receivables, finance lease receivables and contracts assets as required or permitted by IFRS 9.
The loss allowance for these assets as at 1 January 2018 was not significantly different to that under IAS 39.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued f Hedging The Group has elected to apply the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements because they align more closely with the Groups risk management policies.
An assessment of the Groups hedging relationships under IAS 39 was performed and it was determined that the relationships will qualify as continuing hedging relationships under IFRS 9. i Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income or expense.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship, but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, it no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
ii Economic hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see iv below and impairment losses see accounting policy m. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
ii Leased assets Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see accounting policy m. iii Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation on quarries is based on estimated rates of extraction.
This is based on a comparison between the volume of relevant material extracted in any given period and the volume of relevant material available for extraction.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The rates are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent per annum Short leasehold property over the period of the lease Fixed plant and equipment 3.3 per cent to 25 per cent per annum Mobile plant and vehicles 14 per cent to 30 per cent per annum Quarries based on rates of extraction The residual values, useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reassessed annually.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are ready for use.
Site preparation costs associated with the development of new stone reserves are capitalised.
These costs would include: costs of clearing the site including internal and outsourced labour in relation to site workers : professional fees including fees relating to obtaining planning consent : Marshalls plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment continued iv Depreciation continued purchase, installation and assembly of any necessary extraction equipment: and costs of testing whether the extraction process is functioning properly net of any sales of test products.
Depreciation commences when commercial extraction commences and is based on the rate of extraction.
In accordance with IAS 37, provision is made for quarry restoration where a legal or constructive obligation exists, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur and the financial cost of restoration work can be reliably measured.
The lives of quarries are almost always long and it is difficult to estimate the length with any precision.
The majority of quarry restoration work is undertaken while extracting minerals from new areas backfilling and therefore work can be completed without additional cost.
As a result of the particular characteristics of the Groups quarries, the IAS 37 criteria have not been met to date based on the assets so far acquired and, therefore, no provisions have been recognised.
h Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2004, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at their fair value or at their proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment relating to the acquisition of CPM Group Limited on 19 October 2017 was adjusted in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2018.
Further details of this business combination is included in Note 22.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under the Groups previous accounting framework.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 were not adjusted in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is subsequently stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy m. In respect of equity-accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
In respect of acquisitions where there is a contingent consideration element, an accrual is created for the estimated amount payable if it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and this can be measured reliably.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process meets the recognition criteria for development expenditure as set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The expenditure capitalised includes all directly attributable costs, from the date which the intangible asset meets the recognition criteria, necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see v overleaf and impairment losses see accounting policy m. iii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see v overleaf and impairment losses see accounting policy m. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued h Intangible assets continued v Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The rates applied are as follows: Customer and supplier relationships 5 to 20 years Patents, trademarks and know-how 2 to 20 years Development costs 10 to 20 years Software 5 to 10 years i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment losses see accounting policy m. j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs to completion and of selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity, which were incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
l Assets classified as held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within 1 year from the date of classification, and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
m Impairment i Impairment review The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash generating unit is the group of assets identified on acquisition that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of assets or cash generating units is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairments An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
n Share capital i Share capital Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or if it is redeemable but only at the Companys option.
Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
Non-equity share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends thereon are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as a financial expense.
Marshalls plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued n Share capital continued ii Dividends Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis.
Equity dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
o Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
p Pension schemes i Defined benefit schemes The net obligation in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
If the calculation results in a surplus, the resulting asset is measured at the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan, or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of these economic benefits is discounted by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
When the benefits of the scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement in the period of the scheme amendment.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of a plan are recognised immediately within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
ii Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
q Share-based payment transactions The Group enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees.
In particular, annual awards are made to employees under the Companys Management Incentive Plan MIP.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Where appropriate, the fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting.
A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
r Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it can be measured reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
t Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at the nominal amount discounted if material.
u Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement upon the despatch of goods, when the performance obligations to customers have been satisfied.
Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less returns, allowances, rebates and value added tax.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued v Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the lease.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Financial expenses Net financial expenses comprise interest on obligations under the defined benefit pension scheme, the expected return on scheme assets under the defined benefit pension scheme, interest payable on borrowings including finance leases calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividends on non-equity shares, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement see accounting policy f. w Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation.
Income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or in equity, in which case it is recognised accordingly.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
x Segment reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of discrete financial information about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
As far as Marshalls is concerned, the CODM is regarded as being the Executive Directors.
The Directors have concluded that the Groups Landscape Products business is a single reportable segment, which includes the UK operations of the Marshalls Landscape Products hard landscaping business, servicing both the UK Domestic and the Public Sector and Commercial end markets.
Financial information for Landscape Products is now reported to the Groups CODM for the assessment of segment performance and to facilitate resource allocation.
y Alternative performance measures The Group uses alternative performance measures APMs which are not defined or specified under IFRS.
The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be a substitute for IFRS measures, provide additional helpful information.
APMs are consistent with how business performance is planned, reported and assessed internally by management and the Board and provide more meaningful comparative information.
In relation to the year ended 31 December 2018 certain APMs are required as a consequence of the acquisition of Edenhall on 11 December 2018 in order to ensure comparability with the prior period.
In relation to the year ended 31 December 2017 certain APMs are required as a consequence of the acquisition of CPM on 19 October 2017.
Like-for-like revenue growth Management uses like-for-like revenue growth as it provides a consistent measure of the percentage increase decrease in revenue year-on-year, excluding the effect of acquisitions.
2018 2017 Increase 000 000 % Reported revenue 490,988 430,194 14% Edenhall post-acquisition revenue 675 Like-for-like revenue 490,313 430,194 14% EBITA and EBITDA EBITA represents earnings before interest, tax and the amortisation of intangibles.
This is a component of the ROCE calculation.
EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation to EBITA.
Marshalls plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued y Alternative performance measures continued EBITA and EBITDA continued 2018 2017 Increase 000 000 % EBITDA 80,792 67,895 19% Depreciation 14,199 13,314 EBITA 66,593 54,581 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,759 1,142 Operating profit 64,834 53,439 21% ROCE Reported ROCE is defined as EBITA divided by shareholders funds plus cash net debt.
2018 2017 000 000 EBITA 66,593 54,581 Shareholders funds 266,715 237,627 Net debt 37,433 24,297 304,148 261,924 Reported ROCE 21.9% 20.8% ROCE on a like-for-like basis excluding the impact of acquisitions includes adjustments to report the calculation on a basis that eliminates the impact of the acquisition of Edenhall in 2018 and CPM in 2017.
This ensures comparability with the prior year period.
2018 2017 000 000 Reported EBITA 66,593 54,581 Post-acquisition EBIT 21 749 Amortisation of intangible assets in year of acquisition 17 132 Acquisition costs 375 837 Adjusted EBITA 66,964 54,801 Shareholders funds 266,715 237,627 Net debt 37,433 24,297 304,148 261,924 Impact on net debt arising from the acquisitions in the year 16,468 41,227 As adjusted 287,680 220,697 ROCE on a like-for-like basis excluding the impact of acquisitions 23.3% 24.8% 2 Segmental analysis Segment revenues and results 2018 2017 Landscape Landscape Products Other Total Products Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Total revenue 398,128 96,943 495,071 339,655 94,622 434,277 Inter-segment revenue 228 3,855 4,083 226 3,857 4,083 External revenue 397,900 93,088 490,988 339,429 90,765 430,194 Segment operating profit 68,418 2,095 70,513 56,104 1,873 57,977 Unallocated administration costs 5,679 4,538 Operating profit 64,834 53,439 Finance charges net 1,899 1,388 Profit before tax 62,935 52,051 Taxation 11,307 9,925 Profit after tax 51,628 42,126 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Segmental analysis continued Segment revenues and results continued The Group has 2 customers which each contributed more than 10 per cent of total revenue in the current and prior year.
The Landscape Products reportable segment operates a national manufacturing plan that is structured around a series of production units throughout the UK, in conjunction with a single logistics and distribution operation.
A national planning process supports sales to both of the key end markets, namely the UK Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets and the operating assets produce and deliver a range of broadly similar products that are sold into each of these end markets.
Within the Landscape Products operating segment the focus is on one integrated production, logistics and distribution network supporting both end markets.
Included in Other are the Groups Street Furniture, Mineral Products, Premier Mortars and International operations, which do not currently meet the IFRS 8 reporting requirements.
Following the acquisition, the Edenhall business has been included within Other.
The accounting policies of the Landscape Products operating segment are the same as the Groups accounting policies.
Segment profit represents the profit earned without allocation of certain central administration costs that are not capable of allocation.
Centrally administered overhead costs that relate directly to the reportable segment are included within the segments results.
Segment assets 2018 2017 000 000 Fixed assets and inventory: Landscape Products 201,489 182,391 Other 73,863 64,561 Total segment fixed assets and inventory 275,352 246,952 Unallocated assets 230,982 167,475 Consolidated total assets 506,334 414,427 The comparatives have been restated as a result of a reassessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired Note 22.
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Groups CODM monitors the tangible fixed assets and inventory.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are not allocated to individual reportable segments.
Other segment information Depreciation and amortisation Fixed asset additions 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Landscape Products 13,251 10,878 21,060 17,041 Other 2,707 3,578 6,256 5,445 15,958 14,456 27,316 22,486 Geographical destination of revenue 2018 2017 000 000 United Kingdom 467,032 407,215 Rest of the world 23,956 22,979 490,988 430,194 The Groups revenue is subject to seasonal fluctuations resulting from demand from customers.
In particular, demand is higher in the summer months.
The Group manages the seasonal impact through the use of a seasonal working capital facility.
Marshalls plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 3 Net operating costs 2018 2017 000 000 Raw materials and consumables 172,175 151,343 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 6,267 7,231 Personnel costs Note 4 116,588 100,811 Depreciation 14,199 13,314 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,759 1,142 Own work capitalised 3,340 1,919 Other operating costs 120,187 106,569 Operational restructuring costs 1,244 1,217 Acquisition costs 375 837 Operating costs 429,454 380,545 Other operating income 2,562 2,842 Net gain on asset and property disposals 738 948 Net operating costs 426,154 376,755 This reflects the proceeds of the sale of a domain name and is net of associated digital strategy costs.
2018 2017 000 000 Net operating costs include: Auditors remuneration see below 247 211 Leasing costs 12,522 11,465 Hire of plant and machinery 4,838 4,651 Research and development costs 4,927 3,876 In respect of the year under review, Deloitte LLP carried out work in relation to: 2018 2017 000 000 Audit of Financial Statements of Marshalls plc 30 25 Audit of Financial Statements of subsidiaries of the Company 173 166 Half yearly review of Marshalls plc 20 20 Other assurance services 24 247 211 4 Personnel costs 2018 2017 000 000 Personnel costs including amounts charged in the year in relation to Directors : Wages and salaries 97,417 80,811 Social security costs 10,341 9,617 Share-based payments 1,789 3,883 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 7,041 6,500 Included within net operating costs Note 3 116,588 100,811 Personnel costs relating to restructuring Note 3 634 1,217 Total personnel costs 117,222 102,028 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Personnel costs continued 2018 2017 000 000 Remuneration of Directors: Salary 737 712 Other benefits 45 39 MIP Element A bonus 823 535 MIP Element B bonus 362 356 Amounts receivable under the MIP at the end of the first cycle 505 2,024 Salary supplement in lieu of pension 147 142 Non-Executive Directors fees and fixed allowances 320 299 2,939 4,107 The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable under the MIP of the highest paid Director was 1,602,000 2017: 2,383,000, including a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 89,000 2017: 86,000.
There are no Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of qualifying services.
As set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 69, the Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension equal to their contractual entitlement of 20 per cent of basic salary.
Further details of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans and Directors pension entitlements are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 72.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: 2018 2017 Number Number Continuing operations 2,640 2,307 5 Financial expenses and income 2018 2017 000 000 a Financial expenses Net interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme 496 377 Interest expense on bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 1,403 1,005 Finance lease interest expense 5 6 1,904 1,388 b Financial income Interest receivable and similar income 5 Net interest expense on the defined benefit pension scheme is disclosed net of Company recharges.
6 Income tax expense 2018 2017 000 000 Current tax expense Current year 11,269 11,554 Adjustments for prior years 934 732 10,335 10,822 Deferred taxation expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences: Current year 921 797 Adjustments for prior years 51 100 Total tax expense 11,307 9,925 Marshalls plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 6 Income tax expense continued 2018 2018 2017 2017 % 000 % 000 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Profit before tax 100.0 62,935 100.0 52,051 Tax using domestic corporation tax rate 19.0 11,957 19.3 10,020 Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.6 402 0.3 184 Short-term timing differences 0.9 595 1.2 630 Adjustment to tax charge in prior year 1.5 934 1.4 732 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 881 1.4 720 Corporation tax charge for the year 16.4 10,335 20.8 10,822 Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.2 130 1.2 618 Short-term timing differences 1.8 1,139 0.2 103 Pension scheme movements 0.2 101 0.1 77 Other items 0.5 300 1.0 532 Adjustment to tax charge in prior year 0.1 51 0.2 100 Impact of the change in the rate of corporation tax on deferred taxation 0.4 287 1.0 531 Total tax charge for the year 18.0 11,307 19.1 9,925 The net amount of deferred taxation debited credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year was 1,671,000 debit 2017: 21,000 debit.
The majority of the Groups profits are earned in the UK with the standard rate of corporation tax being 19.0 per cent for the year to 31 December 2018.
Capital allowances are tax reliefs provided in law for the expenditure the Group makes on fixed assets.
The rates are determined by Parliament annually, and spread the tax relief due over a number of years.
This contrasts with the accounting treatment for such spending, where the expenditure on fixed assets is treated as an investment with the cost then being spread over the anticipated useful life of the asset, and or impaired if the value of such assets is considered to have reduced materially.
The different accounting treatment of fixed assets for tax and accounting purposes is one reason why the taxable income of the Group is not the same as its accounting profit.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 the depreciation charge for the year exceeded the capital allowances due to the Group.
Short-term timing differences arise on items such as depreciation in stock and share-based payments because the treatment of such items is different for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences usually reverse in the years following those in which they arise, as is reflected in the deferred tax charge in the Financial Statements.
Adjustments to tax charges arising in earlier years arise because the tax charge to be included in a set of accounts has to be estimated before those Financial Statements are finalised.
Such charges therefore include some estimates that are checked and refined before the Groups corporation tax returns for the year are submitted to HM Revenue & Customs, which may reflect a different liability as a result.
Some expenses incurred may be entirely appropriate charges for inclusion in the Financial Statements but are not allowed as a deduction against taxable income when calculating the Groups tax liability for the same accounting period.
Examples of such disallowable expenditure include business entertainment costs and some legal expenses.
Additional shares vesting in March 2018 have impacted corporation tax in expenses not deductible for tax purposes and deferred tax in short-term timing differences.
As can be seen from the tax reconciliation, the process of adjustment that can give rise to current year adjustments to tax charges arising in previous periods can also give rise to revisions in prior year deferred tax estimates.
This is why the current year adjustments to the current year charge for capital allowances and short-term timing differences are not exactly replicated in the deferred taxation charge for the year.
The Groups overseas operations comprise a manufacturing operation in Belgium and sales and administration offices in the USA, China and Dubai.
The sales of these units, in total, were less than 5 per cent of the Groups turnover in the year ended 31 December 2018.
In total, the trading profits were not material and no tax was due.
7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share of 26.29 pence 2017: 21.52 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the financial year, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of 51,958,000 2017: 42,503,000 by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 197,669,293 2017: 197,518,109.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7 Earnings per share continued Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 2018 2017 000 000 Profit for the financial year 51,628 42,126 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 330 377 Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 51,958 42,503 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 2018 2017 Number Number Number of issued Ordinary Shares 199,419,571 199,378,755 Effect of shares transferred into Employee Benefit Trust 1,750,278 1,860,646 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the year 197,669,293 197,518,109 Diluted earnings per share of 26.08 pence 2017: 21.37 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of 51,958,000 2017: 42,503,000 by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 197,669,293 2017: 197,518,109 plus potentially dilutive shares of 1,548,929 2017: 1,384,707, which totals 199,218,222 2017: 198,902,816.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares diluted 2018 2017 Number Number Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 197,669,293 197,518,109 Potentially dilutive shares 1,548,929 1,384,707 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares diluted 199,218,222 198,902,816 8 Dividends After the balance sheet date a final dividend of 8.00 pence 2017: 6.80 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors.
In addition a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence 2017: 4.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors.
These dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
The total dividends proposed in respect of the year are as follows: Pence per 2018 2017 qualifying share 000 000 2018 supplementary 4.00 7,930 2018 final 8.00 15,860 2018 interim 4.00 7,906 16.00 31,696 2017 supplementary 4.00 7,904 2017 final 6.80 13,436 2017 interim 3.40 6,718 14.20 28,058 The following dividends were approved by the shareholders and recognised in the year: Pence per 2018 2017 qualifying share 000 000 2018 interim 4.00 7,906 2017 supplementary 4.00 7,905 2017 final 6.80 13,439 14.80 29,250 2017 interim 3.40 6,718 2016 supplementary 3.00 5,927 2016 final 5.80 11,460 12.20 24,105 Marshalls plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 8 Dividends continued The Board recommends a 2018 final dividend of 8.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share amounting to 15,860,000, alongside a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share amounting to 7,930,000, to be paid on 28 June 2019 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 7 June 2019.
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets includes 402,000 2017: 402,000 of land assets and 1,175,000 2017: nil of plant and machinery held under finance leases.
Group cost of land and buildings and plant and machinery includes 1,926,000 2017: 1,484,000 and 16,779,000 2017: 7,105,000 respectively for assets in the course of construction.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9 Property, plant and equipment continued Capital commitments 2018 2017 000 000 Capital expenditure that has been contracted for but for which no provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements 4,635 5,058 Depreciation charge The depreciation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement: 2018 2017 000 000 Net operating costs Note 3 14,199 13,314 10 Intangible assets Patents, trademarks Customer Supplier and Development Goodwill relationships relationships know-how costs Software Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2017 43,691 2,210 1,200 1,660 159 12,610 61,530 Additions 1,750 1,750 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 24,126 6,704 429 100 31,359 At 31 December 2017 67,817 8,914 1,629 1,760 159 14,360 94,639 At 1 January 2018 67,817 8,914 1,629 1,760 159 14,360 94,639 Additions 1,419 1,995 3,414 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 12,033 3,897 15,930 At 31 December 2018 81,269 12,811 1,629 1,760 159 16,355 113,983 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 8,912 2,210 788 1,398 101 8,028 21,437 Amortisation for the year 121 69 34 8 910 1,142 At 31 December 2017 8,912 2,331 857 1,432 109 8,938 22,579 At 1 January 2018 8,912 2,331 857 1,432 109 8,938 22,579 Amortisation for the year 670 103 42 8 936 1,759 At 31 December 2018 8,912 3,001 960 1,474 117 9,874 24,338 Carrying amounts At 1 January 2017 34,779 412 262 58 4,582 40,093 At 31 December 2017 58,905 6,583 772 328 50 5,422 72,060 At 31 December 2018 72,357 9,810 669 286 42 6,481 89,645 The comparatives have been restated as a result of a reassessment of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired Note 22.
All goodwill has arisen from business combinations.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units CGUs and these CGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Marshalls plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 10 Intangible assets continued The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations and at both 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 the full amount of goodwill in the Group Balance Sheet related to the Landscape Products CGU.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Edenhall is included within the Landscape Products CGU.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on a combination of individual financial 3-year forecasts, containing assumptions for revenue growth and operational gearing, and appropriate long-term growth rates of 2.45 per cent.
To prepare value-in-use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are discounted back to present value using an appropriate market-based discount rate.
The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 8.2 per cent 2017: 9.8 per cent.
The Directors have reviewed the recoverable amounts of the CGUs and do not consider that any reasonable change in the assumptions would give rise to the need for further impairment.
Included in software additions is 915,000 2017: 910,000 of own work capitalised.
Amortisation charge The amortisation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement: 2018 2017 000 000 Net operating costs Note 3 1,759 1,142 11 Inventories 2018 2017 000 000 Raw materials and consumables 15,925 15,690 Finished goods and goods for resale 68,436 62,169 84,361 77,859 Inventories stated at a net realisable value less than cost at 31 December 2018 amounted to 3,420,000 2017: 4,148,000.
The write down of inventories made during the year amounted to 1,024,000 2017: 1,477,000.
There were nil reversals of inventory write downs made in previous years in 2018 2017: 73,000.
12 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 000 000 Trade receivables 58,056 47,925 Other receivables 14,940 15,839 Prepayments and accrued income 7,434 4,457 80,430 68,221 Included within other receivables is a reimbursement asset of 9,418,000 2017: 12,000,000 which is held in escrow in relation to the acquisitions of CPM Group Limited and Edenhall Holdings Limited Note 22.
Ageing of trade receivables 2018 2017 000 000 Neither impaired nor past due 25,822 21,363 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 20,952 19,117 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 4,148 3,653 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 7,134 3,792 58,056 47,925 There were no receivables due after more than 1 year 2017: nil.
All amounts disclosed above are considered recoverable and are disclosed net of a provision for expected credit losses of 716,000 2017: 609,000.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 000 000 Bank balances 45,694 19,833 Cash in hand 15 12 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45,709 19,845 14 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 000 000 Current liabilities Trade payables 59,354 52,180 Taxation and social security 11,894 10,449 Other payables 23,868 15,056 Accruals 26,837 22,488 121,953 100,173 All trade payables are due in 6 months or less.
15 Loans 2018 2017 000 000 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 2,673 Finance lease liabilities 301 35 2,974 35 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 79,528 43,883 Finance lease liabilities 640 224 80,168 44,107 Bank loans The bank loans are secured by intra-group guarantees with certain subsidiary undertakings.
Finance lease liabilities 2018 2017 Minimum Minimum lease lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 000 000 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 335 34 301 40 5 35 1 to 2 years 299 30 269 40 4 36 2 to 5 years 363 31 332 120 10 110 In more than 5 years 40 1 39 80 2 78 1,037 96 941 280 21 259 Marshalls plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 16 Financial instruments The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate, liquidity and currency risks.
The Group primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings.
The Groups bank loans are non-equity funding instruments, further details of which are set out on pages 112 and 113.
As directed by the Board, the Group does not engage in speculative activities using derivative financial instruments.
Group cash reserves are held centrally to take advantage of the most rewarding short-term investment opportunities.
Forward foreign currency contracts are used in the management of currency risk.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
The Board reviews and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks and they have remained unchanged since 2017.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as its total equity and net debt balances.
The Group manages its capital structure in light of current economic conditions and its strategic objectives to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The Group manages its medium-term bank debt to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed facilities.
A key objective is to ensure compliance with the covenants set out in the Groups bank facility agreements.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Groups incentive schemes.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regard to capital management during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Financial risks The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations.
Risk management is governed by the Groups operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures, which are outlined in the Strategic Report on pages 23 to 27.
The key financial risks resulting from financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups earnings.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
For instance, a weakening of Pound Sterling on the foreign currency market would increase the cost of certain raw materials, whereas a strengthening would have the opposite effect.
a Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due and does so by monitoring cash flow forecasts and budgets.
Cash resources are largely and normally generated through operations and short-term flexibility is achieved by bank facilities.
Bank debt is raised centrally and the Group aims to maintain a balance between flexibility and continuity of funding by having a range of maturities on its borrowings.
Details of the Group borrowing facilities are provided on pages 112 and 113. b Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short-term borrowing facilities and to assess individually and manage each long-term borrowing commitment accordingly.
The Group borrows principally at floating rates of interest and, where appropriate, uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile, thereby managing the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The Group classifies its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is nil 2017: 14,000 asset and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
The period that the swaps cover is matched against the debt maturity in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement.
During the year 70,000 2017: 23,000 has been recognised in other comprehensive income for the year with 14,000 2017: 43,000 being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
The interest rate swaps have been fully effective in the period.
With the addition of the fuel hedges Note 16 e and forward contracts this gives a total of 528,000 credit 2017: 146,000 credit recognised in other comprehensive income for the year with 668,000 debit 2017: 385,000 debit being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued b Interest rate risk continued Sensitivity analysis A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
The sensitivity analysis has been undertaken before the effect of tax.
The sensitivity analysis of the Groups exposure to interest rate risk has been determined based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates, financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale with fixed interest rates and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2017.
2018 2017 000 000 Increase of 100 basis points 650 211 Decrease of 100 basis points 650 211 c Credit risk Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and, where appropriate, credit insurance cover is obtained.
This provides excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred.
An ageing of trade receivables is shown in Note 12 on page 107.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a credit rating equal to or better than the Group.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with which the Group has a signed netting agreement as well as sound credit ratings.
Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
d Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Euros and US Dollars.
The Groups policy is to cover all significant foreign currency commitments in respect of trade receivables and trade payables by using forward foreign currency contracts.
All the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than 1 year after the balance sheet date.
Where necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is 30,000 liability 2017: 42,000 asset and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
At 31 December 2018 all outstanding forward exchange contracts had a maturity date within 6 months.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
Marshalls plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued d Foreign currency risk continued This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2017: 2018 2017 000 000 10 per cent strengthening of against 1,833 1,953 10 per cent weakening of against 1,500 1,598 10 per cent strengthening of against $ 45 41 10 per cent weakening of against $ 36 33 10 per cent strengthening of against Dhs 14 9 10 per cent weakening of against Dhs 12 7 e Pricing risks Where appropriate the Group uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risks of significant forward price rises of fuel in relation to expected consumption.
The current hedges held are in place until 31 December 2019.
The Group classifies its fuel hedges as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of the fuel hedges is a 306,000 asset 2017: 391,000 asset and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
The period that the fuel hedges cover is matched against future expected purchases in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement.
During the year 598,000 2017: 123,000 has been recognised in other comprehensive income, with 682,000 2017: 428,000 being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
The fuel hedges have been fully effective in the period.
f Other risks Further information about the Groups strategic and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37.
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities At 31 December 2018 there were 941,000 2017: 259,000 of Group borrowings on a fixed rate.
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities was: Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 12 More than variable interest rate Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate % 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2018 Cash and cash equivalents Note 13 Variable 1.81 45,709 45,709 Bank overdrafts Note 15 Variable 3.0 2,673 2,673 Bank loans Note 15 Variable 1.81 79,528 19,820 20,000 39,708 Finance lease liabilities Note 15 Fixed 10.9 941 135 166 269 332 39 37,433 42,901 19,986 20,269 40,040 39 Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 12 More than variable interest rate Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate % 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2017 Cash and cash equivalents Note 13 Variable 1.97 19,845 19,845 Bank loans Note 15 Variable 1.97 43,883 14,500 24,239 5,144 Finance lease liabilities Note 15 Fixed 10.0 259 35 36 110 78 24,297 19,845 14,535 24,275 5,254 78 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued f Other risks continued Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities continued At 31 December the undiscounted outstanding contractual payments including interest of financial liabilities were as follows: Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 12 More than variable value Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2018 Bank overdrafts Variable 2,673 2,673 2,673 Bank loans Variable 79,528 82,347 595 20,318 20,811 40,623 Trade payables Variable 59,354 59,354 59,354 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 941 1,037 152 183 299 363 40 Derivative financial assets Fixed 276 276 249 27 142,220 145,135 62,525 20,474 21,110 40,986 40 Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 12 More than variable value Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2017 Bank loans Variable 43,883 44,519 244 14,665 24,427 5,183 Trade payables Variable 52,180 52,180 52,180 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 259 280 3 37 40 120 80 Derivative financial assets Fixed 447 391 236 155 95,875 96,588 52,191 14,547 24,467 5,303 80 Borrowing facilities The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2018 amounted to 140.0 million 2017: 115.0 million, of which 60.5 million 2017: 71.1 million remained unutilised.
There are additional seasonal bank working capital facilities of 10.0 million available between 1 February and 31 August each year.
The undrawn facilities available at 31 December 2018, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, were as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Committed: Expiring in more than 5 years 25,000 Expiring in more than 2 years but not more than 5 years 20,292 50,617 Expiring in 1 year or less 180 5,500 Uncommitted: Expiring in 1 year or less 15,000 15,000 60,472 71,117 On 9 August 2018, the Group renewed its short-term working capital facilities of 25.0 million.
To support the acquisition of Edenhall Holdings Limited, the Group has taken out an additional committed facility of 25.0 million with a 2024 maturity date.
The committed facilities are all revolving credit facilities with interest charged at variable rates based on LIBOR.
The Groups bank facilities continue to be aligned with the current strategy to ensure that headroom against available facilities remains at appropriate levels.
Marshalls plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 16 Financial instruments continued Borrowing facilities continued The maturity profile of borrowing facilities is structured to provide balanced, committed and phased medium-term debt.
The current facilities are set out as follows: Cumulative Facility facility 000 000 Committed facilities Q1: 2024 25,000 25,000 Q3: 2023 20,000 45,000 Q3: 2022 20,000 65,000 Q3: 2021 20,000 85,000 Q3: 2020 20,000 105,000 Q3: 2019 20,000 125,000 On-demand facilities Available all year 15,000 140,000 Seasonal February to August inclusive 10,000 150,000 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities A comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December 2018 is shown below: 2018 2017 Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value 000 000 000 000 Trade and other receivables 71,710 71,710 62,787 62,787 Cash and cash equivalents 45,709 45,709 19,845 19,845 Bank overdrafts 2,673 2,673 Bank loans 79,528 77,931 43,883 42,836 Finance lease liabilities 941 1,037 259 280 Trade and other payables 107,908 107,908 95,777 95,777 Interest rate swaps, forward contracts and fuel hedges 276 276 447 447 Contingent consideration 2,420 2,420 Financial instrument assets and liabilities net 75,775 56,840 Non-financial instrument assets and liabilities net 342,490 294,467 266,715 237,627 Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Other than contingent consideration, which uses a level 3 basis, all use level 2 valuation techniques.
a Derivatives Derivative contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price at the relevant rate and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps, broker quotes are used.
b Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on the expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date.
c Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
d Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than 1 year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
e Contingent consideration The basis of calculating contingent consideration is set out in Note 22 on page 121.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Borrowing facilities continued Estimation of fair values continued f Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments, measured at fair value, into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation techniques used to determine fair value.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 31 December 2018 Derivative financial assets 276 276 31 December 2017 Derivative financial assets 447 447 17 Employee benefits The Company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK the Scheme.
The Scheme is administered within a trust which is legally separate from the Company.
The Trustee Board is appointed by both the Company and the Schemes membership and acts in the interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the members and the Company.
The Trustee is also responsible for the investment of the Schemes assets.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme provides pension and lump sums to members on retirement and to dependants on death.
The defined benefit section closed to future accrual of benefits on 30 June 2006 with the active members becoming entitled to a deferred pension.
Members no longer pay contributions to the defined benefit section.
Company contributions to the defined benefit section after this date are used to fund any deficit in the Scheme and the expenses associated with administering the Scheme, as determined by regular actuarial valuations.
The Trustee is required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and costs of the Scheme whereas the accounting assumptions must be best estimates.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme poses a number of risks to the Company, for example longevity risk, investment risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and salary risk.
The Trustee is aware of these risks and uses various techniques to control them.
The Trustee has a number of internal control policies, including a risk register, which are in place to manage and monitor the various risks it faces.
The Trustees investment strategy incorporates the use of liability-driven investments LDIs to minimise sensitivity of the actuarial funding position to movements in interest rates and inflation rates.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every 3 years.
The next actuarial valuation is expected to be carried out with an effective date of 5 April 2018.
These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and so include deliberate margins for prudence.
This contrasts with these accounting disclosures which are determined using best estimate assumptions.
A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2015.
The results of that valuation have been projected to 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The figures in the following disclosure were measured using the projected unit method.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were as follows: 2018 2017 2016 000 000 000 Present value of Scheme liabilities 330,222 350,554 355,793 Fair value of Scheme assets 343,738 354,681 360,069 Net amount recognised at the year end before any adjustments for deferred tax 13,516 4,127 4,276 Marshalls plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 17 Employee benefits continued The current and past service costs, settlements and curtailments, together with the net interest expense for the year, are included in the employee benefits expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit surplus are included in other comprehensive income.
Following the High Court ruling in the Lloyds Banking case, an adjustment of 1.5 million has been made to increase Scheme liabilities for GMP equalisation.
This has been recorded in the current year Income Statement as a past service cost.
2018 2017 000 000 Net interest expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 596 477 Remeasurements of the net liability: Return on scheme assets excluding amount included in interest expense 7,872 2,819 Gain loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 16,326 10,158 Gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1,531 7,667 Credit recorded in other comprehensive income 9,985 328 Total defined benefit credit charge 9,389 149 The principal actuarial assumptions used were: 2018 2017 000 000 Liability discount rate 2.75% 2.50% Inflation assumption RPI 3.15% 3.15% Inflation assumption CPI 2.15% 2.15% Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Revaluation of deferred pensions 2.15% 2.15% Increases for pensions in payment: CPI pension increases maximum 5% p. a.
2.15% 2.15% CPI pension increases maximum 5% p. a. minimum 3% p. a.
3.20% 3.20% CPI pension increases maximum 3% p. a.
1.95% 1.95% Proportion of employees opting for early retirement 0% 0% Proportion of employees commuting pension for cash 50% 50.0% Mortality assumption before retirement Same as post Same as post retirement retirement Mortality assumption after retirement males S2PXA tables S2PMA tables Loading 105% 105% Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth CMI 2017 1.0% CMI 2016 1.0% Mortality assumption after retirement females S2PXA tables S2PFA tables Loading 105% 105% Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth CMI 2017 1.0% CMI 2016 1.0% Future expected lifetime of current pensioner at age 65: Male aged 65 at year end 86.1 86.2 Female aged 65 at year end 88.0 88.0 Future expected lifetime of future pensioner at age 65: Male aged 45 at year end 87.1 87.2 Female aged 45 at year end 89.2 89.2 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17 Employee benefits continued Changes in the present value of assets over the year 2018 2017 000 000 Fair value of assets at the start of the year 354,681 360,069 Interest income 8,729 9,313 Return on assets excluding amount included in net interest expense 7,872 2,819 Benefits paid 11,094 16,937 Administration expenses 706 583 Fair value of assets at the end of the year 343,738 354,681 Actual return on assets over the year 857 12,132 Changes in the present value of liabilities over the year 2018 2017 000 000 Liabilities at the start of the year 350,554 355,793 Past service cost 7 Interest cost 8,626 9,207 Remeasurement gains losses: Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 16,326 10,158 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1,531 7,667 Benefits paid 11,094 16,937 Liabilities at the end of the year 330,222 350,554 The split of the Schemes liabilities by category of membership is as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Deferred pensioners 182,701 193,464 Pensioners in payment 147,521 157,090 330,222 350,554 Average duration of the Schemes liabilities at the end of the year in years 18 18 The major categories of Scheme assets are as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Return-seeking assets UK equities 20,747 42,464 Overseas equities 9,767 20,015 Other equity type investments 37,976 41,784 Total return-seeking assets 68,490 104,263 Other Insured pensioners 760 819 Cash 2,335 575 Liability-driven investments 272,153 249,024 Total matching assets 275,248 250,418 Total market value of assets 343,738 354,681 The return-seeking assets and LDI assets have quoted prices in active markets.
The valuation of the insured pensions has been taken as the value of the corresponding liabilities assessed using the assumptions set out above.
The Scheme has no investments in the Company or in property occupied by the Company.
The Company expects to pay no contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme during the year ended 31 December 2019.
Marshalls plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 17 Employee benefits continued Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions If the discount rate were 0.1 per cent higher lower, the defined benefit section Scheme liabilities would decrease by approximately 6.1 million increase by 6.3 million if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
If the inflation assumption were 0.1 per cent higher lower, the Scheme liabilities would increase by 3.1 million decrease by 2.5 million.
In this calculation all assumptions related to the inflation assumption have been appropriately adjusted, that is salary, the deferred pension and pension in payment increases.
The other assumptions remain unchanged.
If life expectancies were to increase decrease by 1 year, the Scheme liabilities would increase by 14.7 million decrease by 14.1 million if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
Management Incentive Plan MIP Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the MIP.
Full details of the performance criteria and the basis of operation of the MIP are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 72.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares.
The following equity settled awards have been granted: Number of instruments 000 Date of grant Vesting period Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 200,083 648 10 March 2015 3 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 252,338 818 10 March 2015 3 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 235,541 677 11 March 2016 2 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 306,208 881 11 March 2016 2 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 224,669 993 15 March 2017 4 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 300,005 1,326 15 March 2017 4 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 283,261 1,266 16 March 2018 3 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 364,746 1,631 16 March 2018 3 years 2,166,851 8,240 Analysis of closing balance deferred into shares : 2018 2017 000 Shares 000 Shares Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 3,584 943,554 4,526 1,295,249 Equity settled awards granted to other employees 4,656 1,223,297 5,838 1,635,817 8,240 2,166,851 10,364 2,931,066 2018 2017 Value Number of Value Number of 000 options 000 options Outstanding at 1 January 10,364 2,931,066 7,134 2,438,884 Granted 2,896 648,016 2,921 663,695 Change in value of notional shares 203 48,293 1,145 19,286 Element released 5,223 1,460,524 836 190,799 Outstanding at 31 December 8,240 2,166,851 10,364 2,931,066 The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments were as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 3,349 5,218 Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 72.
Included in the total expense of 3,349,000 2017: 5,218,000 is an amount of 2,422,000 2017: 1,804,000 which is expected to be settled as interim cash payments under the terms of the Scheme and which has been included within wages and salaries in Note 3 and accruals in Note 14.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17 Employee benefits continued Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions continued Employee Bonus Share Plan A Bonus Share Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2015 under which a number of senior management employees were granted performance related bonuses with an element of this bonus being in the form of shares.
The bonus performance criteria are the same as those applicable to the MIP awards and are in relation to the years ended 31 December 2016, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018.
The bonus shares take the form of nil-cost options to acquire shares at the end of a 3-year vesting period from the date of grant, and vesting is conditional on continued employment at the end of the vesting period.
Awards are made to participants following publication of the Groups year end results.
In addition, a special Bonus Share Award was granted to qualifying CPM employees following its acquisition on 19 October 2017.
This took the form of a nil-cost option to acquire Ordinary Shares in Marshalls plc at the end of a 3-year period.
Awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 were over 352,117 shares 31 December 2017: 328,267.
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments were 563,000 2017: 169,000.
All-employee Sharesave SAYE scheme On 5 October 2015 options were granted over up to 1,000,000 shares to employees who had subscribed to the SAYE scheme.
The option price was 291 pence, a discount of 20 per cent to the market price on the date of grant.
The options were exercisable by relevant employees after a period of 3 years and accordingly reached maturity and became exercisable during the year, and as at 31 December 2018 614,678 Ordinary Shares had been issued.
As at 14 March 2019 a further 58,724 Ordinary Shares had been issued to SAYE participants having exercised options.
SAYE options that are not exercised will lapse on 1 June 2019.
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments was 275,000 2017: 300,000.
Employee profit sharing scheme At 31 December 2018 the scheme held 42,329 2017: 42,328 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
18 Provisions Legal and regulatory provisions 000 At 1 January 2017 On acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 11,840 At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 11,840 Restatement Note 22 3,640 At 1 January 2018 as restated 8,200 Utilised in the year 1,912 On acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 1,000 At 31 December 2018 7,288 Provisions were made for the estimated cost of settlement of certain legal and regulatory matters relating to the CPM business acquired on 19 October 2017, reflecting the Directors estimate of the likely outflow from settlement of these matters.
In addition, provisions of 1,000,000 were made for the estimated cost of settlement of certain legal and regulatory matters relating to the Edenhall business acquired on 11 December 2018.
These provisions are expected to be settled within the next 2 years.
As explained in Note 12, the Group has a right of access to the cash paid into an escrow account at the date of acquisition to be used to settle these matters to the extent that a liability crystallises.
19 Deferred taxation Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 10,924 10,545 Intangible assets 1,985 1,351 Inventories 337 368 Employee benefits 2,299 702 Equity settled share-based payments 1,406 2,775 Other items 2,008 2,020 Tax assets liabilities 1,406 2,775 17,553 14,986 The March 2016 Budget announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17 per cent by 2020.
The reduction in the rate to 17 per cent effective April 2020 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred taxation liability at 31 December 2018 has been calculated based on the rate at which the deferred tax is expected to unwind in the future using rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred taxation liability of 2,299,000 2017: 702,000 in relation to employee benefits is in respect of the net surplus for the defined benefit obligations of 13,516,000 2017: 4,127,000 Note 17 calculated at 17 per cent 2017: 17 per cent.
Deferred tax assets on capital losses and overseas trading losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of the losses.
Marshalls plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 19 Deferred taxation continued Movement in temporary differences Year ended 31 December 2018 Recognised Recognised On in other in statement acquisition of 1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes subsidiary 31 December 2018 in income income in equity undertaking 2018 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 10,545 79 458 10,924 Intangible assets 1,351 28 662 1,985 Inventories 368 31 337 Employee benefits 702 101 1,698 2,299 Equity settled share-based payments 2,775 1,198 171 1,406 Other items 2,020 15 27 2,008 12,211 974 1,671 171 1,120 16,147 Year ended 31 December 2017 Recognised Recognised On in other in statement acquisition of 1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes subsidiary 31 December 2017 in income income in equity undertaking 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 10,838 718 425 10,545 Intangible assets 265 25 1,111 1,351 Inventories 377 9 368 Employee benefits 727 81 56 702 Equity settled share-based payments 1,821 69 885 2,775 Other items 1,448 5 35 602 2,020 11,834 897 21 885 2,138 12,211 Deferred taxation liabilities represent sums that might become payable as tax in future years as a result of transactions that have occurred in the current year.
The explanation as to why such liabilities may arise is included in the notes to the tax reconciliation Note 6.
The deferred tax balances on short-term timing differences are expected to reverse within 1 to 3 years.
Based on the current investment programme of the Group and assuming that current rates of capital allowances on fixed asset expenditure continue into the future, there is little prospect of any significant part of the deferred taxation liability of the Company becoming payable over the next 3 years.
It is not realistic to make any projection after a 3-year period.
The deferred tax liabilities disclosed in the year ended 31 December 2018 include the deferred tax relating to the Groups pension scheme assets.
20 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 2018 nominal 2017 nominal 2018 value 2017 value Ordinary Shares Number 000 Number 000 At 1 January 199,378,755 49,845 199,378,755 49,845 Issued in year 614,678 153 At 31 December 199,993,433 49,998 199,378,755 49,845 On 5 October 2015 options were granted up to 1,000,000 shares to employees who had subscribed to the SAYE Scheme Note 17.
The options were exercisable by relevant employees after a period of 3 years and consequently during the year 614,678 Ordinary Shares were issued to those employees whose options had reached maturity.
Consolidation reserve On 8 July 2004 Marshalls plc was introduced as the new holding company of the Group by way of a court-approved Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The restructuring was accounted for as a capital reorganisation and accounting principles were applied as if the Company had always been the holding company of the Group.
The difference between the aggregate nominal value of the new shares issued by the Company and the called-up share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account of Marshalls Group plc the previous holding company was transferred to a consolidation reserve.
Hedging reserve This represents the gains and losses arising on derivatives used for cash flow hedging, principally from the Groups interest rate swaps, energy price contracts and forward exchange contracts.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Capital and reserves continued Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there were no income tax consequences.
2018 2017 000 000 8.00 pence final dividend 2017: 6.80 pence per Ordinary Share 15,860 13,436 4.00 pence supplementary dividend 2017: 4.00 pence per Ordinary Share 7,930 7,904 23,790 21,340 21 Non-controlling interests 2018 2017 000 000 At 1 January 1,459 1,465 Share of loss for the year 330 377 Foreign currency transaction differences 35 371 At 31 December 1,094 1,459 22 Acquisition of subsidiary On 11 December 2018, Marshalls Mono Limited acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Edenhall Holdings Limited, a concrete brick manufacturer.
Edenhall Holdings Limited operates within the UK and is registered in England and Wales.
The fair values acquired are disclosed as provisional given that the acquisition was made on 11 December 2018.
The amounts recognised in respect of the provisional identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below.
2018 Edenhall 2017 provisional CPM fair values fair values acquired acquired 000 000 Land and buildings 3,915 8,437 Plant, machinery and vehicles 7,116 7,639 Identifiable intangible assets 3,897 7,233 Inventories 2,105 4,580 Trade and other receivables 5,726 12,334 Cash and cash equivalents 33 2,955 Trade and other payables 12,192 19,552 Provisions 1,000 8,200 Borrowings 3,959 3,407 Finance leases 783 Corporation tax 692 1,825 Deferred tax 1,120 2,138 Total identifiable net assets 3,046 2,146 Goodwill 12,033 25,545 Total consideration Satisfied by: Cash consideration 10,759 27,691 Deferred consideration 1,900 Contingent consideration 2,420 Total cost of investment 15,079 27,691 Monies paid into escrow 1,000 10,581 16,079 38,272 Analysis of amounts paid in connection with the acquisition Total cash payments 11,759 38,272 Net cash borrowings acquired 33 2,955 Total cash outflow in connection with the acquisition 11,726 41,227 Marshalls plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 22 Acquisition of subsidiary continued Acquisition of Edenhall Holdings Limited Initial cash consideration paid to the vendors was 10,759,000 and, in addition, a further 1,000,000 was paid into an escrow account in relation to certain ongoing legal and regulatory matters identified during the course of due diligence carried out prior to concluding the acquisition.
The Group has a right to be reimbursed from amounts held in escrow to the extent that any liability crystallises in respect of these ongoing legal and regulatory matters, up to the full value of the 1,000,000 held in escrow and consequently a reimbursement asset of 1,000,000 was recognised within other debtors.
To the extent that any such liabilities are resolved at a lower value than the escrow balances, the excess balance remaining in escrow is payable to the vendors as additional consideration.
The Group has agreed to pay the vendors deferred consideration of 1,900,000 which is payable on 11 December 2021.
This is not dependent on performance.
Additional consideration is also payable dependent on the achievement of performance targets in the periods post acquisition.
These performance periods are up to 3 years in duration and will be settled in cash on their payment date on achieving the relevant targets.
The range of the additional consideration payment is estimated to be between nil and 2.4 million.
The Group has included 2.4 million as contingent consideration related to the additional consideration, which represents its fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration has been calculated based on the Groups expectation of what it will pay in relation to the post-acquisition performance of the acquired entities.
Due to their contractual dates, the fair value of the receivables shown above is approximate to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition represents the opportunity to grow by utilising the capabilities and technical expertise of the acquired workforce and by developing synergistic opportunities.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Transaction costs incurred on acquisition were 375,000 and these were fully expensed in the period to 31 December 2018 Note 3.
Edenhall Holdings Limited contributed revenue of 675,000 and profit of 4,000 to the Groups profit for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2018.
If the acquisition of Edenhall Holdings Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue for the period would have been 524,165,000 and Group profit before tax would have been 64,643,000.
Acquisition of CPM Group Limited On 19 October 2017, Marshalls Mono Limited acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of CPM Group Limited, a precast concrete manufacturer which specialises in underground water management solutions.
Initial cash consideration paid to the vendors was 26,272,000 and a further 12,000,000 was paid into an escrow account in relation to certain ongoing legal and regulatory matters identified during the course of due diligence carried out prior to concluding the acquisition.
Provisions of 11,840,000 were recorded at the date of acquisition, for the estimated liabilities arising from concluding these ongoing matters see Note 18.
The Group has a right to be reimbursed from amounts held in escrow to the extent that any liability crystallises in respect of these ongoing legal and regulatory matters to enable the Group to settle these liabilities, up to the full value of the 12,000,000 held in escrow, and consequently a reimbursement asset of 12,000,000 was recognised within other debtors.
To the extent that such liabilities are resolved at a lower value than the escrow balances, the excess balance remaining in escrow is payable to the vendors as additional consideration.
As required under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, a net working capital review was undertaken in the period.
Adjustments were agreed with the vendor which resulted in a reimbursement of 2,163,000 to Marshalls Mono Limited during the period to 31 December 2018.
This amount covered both the required working capital adjustment and monies that were required to settle certain of the legal and regulatory matters which crystallised during the period.
In addition, and as part of the same review required under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement, an amount of 1,419,000 was paid to the vendors from the escrow account during the period.
As part of the ongoing review of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, adjustments were made to certain accruals and provisions during the period.
These had the effect of increasing the fair value of the net assets acquired under the acquisition by 1,019,000, which has given rise to a reduction in goodwill of a similar amount.
Goodwill, trade and other payables and provisions have been restated accordingly in respect of the reported 31 December 2017 balance sheet.
Transaction costs incurred on acquisition were 837,000, and these were fully expensed in the period to 31 December 2017 Note 3.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Analysis of net debt On acquisition of 1 January subsidiary Other 31 December 2018 Cash flow undertaking changes 2018 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 19,845 25,746 33 85 45,709 Debt due within 1 year 1,286 3,959 19,820 22,493 Debt due after 1 year 43,883 35,450 19,625 59,708 Finance leases 259 106 783 5 941 24,297 8,312 4,709 115 37,433 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2018 2017 000 000 Net increase in cash equivalents 25,746 1,925 Cash inflow from increase in debt and lease financing 34,063 24,819 On acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 4,709 6,362 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 110 454 Movement in net debt in the year 13,136 29,710 Net debt at 1 January 24,297 5,413 Net debt at 31 December 37,433 24,297 24 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities The table below details changes in the Groups liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes.
Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the Groups Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as cash flows from financing activities.
Non-cash changes Financing Acquisition Other 1 January cash flows of subsidiary changes 31 December 2018 i Note 22 ii 2018 000 000 000 000 000 Bank overdrafts Note 15 1,122 1,551 2,673 Bank loans Note 15 43,883 34,539 911 195 79,528 Finance lease liabilities Note 15 259 106 783 5 941 Interest rate swaps fair value hedging or economically hedging financing liabilities Note 16 447 668 497 276 Total liabilities from financing activities 43,695 36,223 3,245 297 82,866 Non-cash changes Financing Acquisition Other 1 January cash flows of subsidiary changes 31 December 2017 i Note 22 ii 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Bank loans Note 15 14,975 25,413 2,847 648 43,883 Finance lease liabilities Note 15 293 594 560 259 Interest rate swaps fair value hedging or economically hedging financing liabilities Note 16 657 385 175 447 Total liabilities from financing activities 14,611 25,204 3,407 473 43,695 i The c ash flows from bank loans, loans from related parties and other borrowings make up the net amount of proceeds from borrowings and repayments of borrowings in the Cash Flow Statement.
ii Exchange adjustments and other movements.
Certain leased properties have been sublet by the Group.
Sublease payments of 211,164 2017: 306,020 are expected to be received during the following financial year.
An amount of 207,779 2017: 345,446 was recognised as income in the Consolidated Income Statement within net operating costs in respect of subleases.
26 Contingencies Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Groups cap on self insurance for employers liability and vehicle insurance: Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose M S Amlin Limited 675,000 23 Dec 2011 to 30 Oct 2019 Employers liability Aviva Insurance Limited 350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 29 Oct 2019 Vehicle insurance M S Amlin Limited 400,000 30 Oct 2016 to 30 Oct 2019 Vehicle insurance 27 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel Other than the Directors, there are no senior managers in the Group who are relevant for establishing that Marshalls plc has the appropriate expertise and experience for the management of its business.
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.2202 per cent 2017: 0.1804 per cent of the voting shares of the Company.
In addition to their salaries and pension allowances, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors.
Further details in relation to Directors are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 72.
28 Accounting estimates and judgements Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The accounting policies are set out in Note 1 on pages 90 to 99.
As stated in the accounting policies, revenue is disclosed net of rebates.
Whilst the Directors do not regard the determination of accruals for rebates as a key area of estimation uncertainty, the estimation of appropriate accruals for rebates requires commercial assessment.
Note 11 contains details of the Groups inventory.
Whilst not considered by the Directors to be a key source of estimation uncertainty, the carrying value of the Groups finished goods inventory has been reviewed using commercial judgement with regard to the assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence and for net realisable value.
The Directors consider the following to be the only key source of estimation uncertainty: Note 17 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations.
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined following advice received from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 17 on page 117.
The critical accounting judgements applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements are: Note 2 contains information about the assumptions and judgements made relating to the identification of operating segments for the Group as defined in IFRS 8 Operating Segments: and Note 22 contains information relating to the acquisitions of both Edenhall Holdings Limited and CPM Group Limited.
Judgement was applied in determining the fair value adjustments.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123
