Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information and basis of preparation IFRS 16, Leases The standard becomes effective for periods beginning on or Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted.
The Group incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number has early adopted IFRS 16 and elected to apply the full retrospective approach on transition.
Its registered office is Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, following practical expedients permitted by the standard: BH23 6EW.
IFRS 16 guidance has not been applied to shortterm leases Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal lease contracts with less than one year to maturity on adoption and leases of lowvalue assets: activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high performance components and subsystems for aerospace, A single discount rate has been used for a portfolio of leases defence and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial and test.
with reasonably similar characteristics: and Contracts at the date of transition, other than those The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting previously accounted for as an operating or finance lease under the Groups previous accounting policy, have not been Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under reassessed as to whether they contain a lease.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost IFRS 9, Financial instruments convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial The standard became effective for periods beginning on or assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial after 1 January 2018 and required retrospective application.
Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company, all of its subsidiaries and 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies the Groups share of the results of its joint venture.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
These policies have been applied consistently to all The Group has control over an entity where the Group is periods presented unless stated otherwise.
exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the power over the entity Adoption of new and revised accounting standards to affect those returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are A number of new accounting standards have been adopted for fully consolidated from the date on which control transfers to the financial year.
The standards which have been adopted for the Group.
The results of subsidiaries disposed are fully the first time and which have had a significant impact on the consolidated up to the date on which control transfers from consolidated financial statements are: the Group.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement between the Group IFRS 16, Leases: and and one or more other parties, under which control is shared IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
between the parties and the Group and other parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
A joint venture is The Group has updated its accounting policies to reflect the accounted for using the equity method whereby the Groups impact of these standards.
Comparative financial information for share of profits and losses of the joint venture is recognised in 2017 has been restated with a cumulative adjustment to equity the income statement within net operating costs and its share of at 1 January 2017 see note 45. net assets and goodwill of the joint venture is recognised as an investment see note 22.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers The standard became effective for periods beginning on or The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration after 1 January 2018.
The Group has elected to apply the provided, including the fair value of contingent consideration, full retrospective approach upon adoption of IFRS 15.
This measured at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration approach required all open contracts with customers presented payable is measured at fair value at each subsequent balance in the consolidated financial statements to be transitioned sheet date, with changes in fair value recorded in the income under the new standard.
The Group has taken the following statement within net operating costs.
Identifiable assets and practical expedients permitted by the standard: liabilities of an acquired business meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at fair value at the date Contracts completed prior to the earliest date presented of acquisition.
The extent to which the cost of an acquisition have not been restated: exceeds the fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Costs directly attributable to an acquisition are Contracts modified prior to the earliest period presented recognised in the income statement within net operating costs have not been restated for such modifications: as incurred.
Changes in fair value of contingent consideration payable and costs of an acquisition are excluded from the For contracts with variable consideration, and which underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and completed in comparative reporting periods, the transaction measure the underlying performance of the Group price at the date of contract completion has been used as the see note 10. revenue amount for all periods presented: and The transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations, and when these outstanding obligations are expected to be recognised as revenue, are not presented for comparative periods.
Meggitt PLC 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign subsidiaries The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average Basis of consolidation continued exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities of foreign When a subsidiary is acquired, the fair value of its identifiable subsidiaries are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the assets and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from the acquisition date.
All fair value adjustments are recognised with retranslation of the results and net assets of foreign subsidiaries effect from the date of acquisition and consequently may result are recognised in hedging and translation reserves within other in the restatement of previously reported financial results.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments accounting policies of acquired businesses are changed where arising from the acquisition of a foreign subsidiary are treated necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
as assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
When a subsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair value of consideration receivable and the value at which the net assets of the subsidiary were recognised, immediately prior to Segment reporting Operating segments are those segments for which results are disposal, is recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
Contingent consideration receivable is reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker measured at fair value at the date of disposal in determining CODM to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated.
The CODM has been identified as the gain or loss recognised.
It is subsequently measured at fair value at each balance sheet date, with any changes in fair value the Board see page 80 of the Corporate governance report.
The Group has determined that its segments for the year ended recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
Changes in fair value of contingent consideration receivable are 31 December 2018 are Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Airframe Systems, Engine Systems, Energy & Equipment and Services & Support will be the Groups new segments from When a foreign subsidiary is disposed, the cumulative exchange 1 January 2019, the effective date of the new divisional structure differences relating to the retranslation of the net investment in see page 40 of the Strategic report.
the foreign subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
This applies only to The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
A segmental exchange differences recognised in equity after 1 January 2004.
Exchange differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 remain in analysis of underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in equity on disposal as permitted by IFRS 1 First time Adoption the notes to the consolidated financial statements see note 6. of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Segmental information on assets is provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in respect of trading assets, Transactions between, and balances with, subsidiary companies are eliminated together with unrealised gains on intragroup which are defined to exclude from total assets, amounts which transactions.
Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the the CODM does not review at a segmental level see note 6.
Excluded assets comprise centrally managed trading assets, asset transferred is not impaired.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with the joint venture are eliminated to the extent goodwill, other intangible assets excluding software assets, investments, derivative financial instruments, deferred tax of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
assets, current tax recoverable, cash and cash equivalents and assets classified as held for sale.
Foreign currencies Functional and presentational currency No segmental information on liabilities is provided in the notes The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in to the consolidated financial statements, as no such measure is pounds sterling.
Items included in the financial statements of reviewed by the CODM.
each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement within net operating costs except where they relate to qualifying net investment hedges in which case exchange differences are recognised in hedging and translation reserves within other comprehensive income.
Meggitt PLC 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Transfer of control Over time 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The principal circumstances in which control transfers over time Revenue from external customers are where the Group provides goods or services for which it has Revenue is recognised when control of goods or services no alternative use and has the enforceable right to payment, provided by the Group is transferred to the customer and at plus a reasonable profit margin, throughout the life of the an amount reflecting the consideration the Group expects to contract.
receive from the customer in exchange for those goods and services.
Certain defence contracts include clauses entitling the Group to be awarded a reasonable profit margin in the event the There are no significant judgements required in either customer cancels for convenience.
Where the Group considers determining the Groups performance obligations or, because such rights to be enforceable: is confident that a reasonable the majority of the Groups revenue is recognised when goods profit margin would be awarded regardless of the stage of or services are provided to the customer, in the timing of contract completion and would apply to all costs incurred by revenue recognition.
As revenue is typically recognised at the Group: and the goods and services have no alternative use, amounts agreed in advance with customers, no significant control will transfer over time.
estimates are required in determining transaction prices.
An alternative use exists where there are multiple potential Estimates of total contract costs are required to determine customers, OEMs and or aftermarket customers, to whom the the extent to which revenue is recognised in a period on over Group could provide those goods or services.
The Group does not consider there to be any reasonably foreseeable changes in these estimates that could Where a contract is structured such that nonrefundable give rise to a significant impact on revenue recognised in the milestone payments are receivable from a customer in advance period.
of work being performed, and the Group is reasonably certain at contract inception that the cumulative value of such milestone Transfer of control At a point in time payments will exceed cumulative costs incurred throughout the For the majority of goods and services provided by the Group, duration of the contract, control will transfer over time.
transfer of control occurs when delivery to the customer takes place which, depending on the specific terms agreed with the Where control transfers over time, the Group considers costs customer, may be when goods are collected from the Groups incurred, as a proportion of total expected contract costs, to be facilities or when they are delivered either to the customers the most appropriate measure of contract completion.
For facilities or to a third party transport agent.
The more common power by the hour and cost per brake landing contracts this exceptions to this assessment for the Group of when control results in revenue being recognised when maintenance events passes are: are performed.
Where, under the terms of a Consideration expected to be received from the customer contract, a customer agrees to accept title to goods which The majority of the Groups contracts provide that consideration remain at the Groups facility, and normal credit terms apply, is payable within a short period after control of goods and transfer of control occurs when these contractual terms have services is transferred to the customer, typically up to three been met, which will typically be when goods are completed, months, and accordingly no significant financing component to packaged and segregated at the Groups facility: the consideration receivable exists.
Goods and services are not distinct performance obligations.
Where a contract includes variable consideration, the Group Where a contract involves the supply of multiple goods and estimates the variable consideration to which it will be entitled services, the Group has concluded that typically each good at contract inception and revises the estimate throughout the and service supplied is a distinct performance obligation.
Estimates are constrained until it is highly However, contracts may require the Group to provide probable that the uncertainty affecting the level of variable installation and other services specific to the goods but consideration has been resolved and a significant reversal of subsequent to their delivery.
Where installation and other cumulative revenue recognised will not arise.
For power by the services are specialised, significant and not capable of being hour and cost per brake landing contracts this requires the performed by another party, control of the goods transfers Group to estimate the number of aircraft flying hours or when installation and other services are completed by the landings expected over the contract.
Group and not when delivery of the goods takes place: In certain instances the Group will receive contributions from Goods are delivered subject to consignment arrangements.
customers during the development phase of an aerospace Where the Group delivers goods to a customer facility, such programme, typically in the form of cash, and where the Group as an airline operator, but retains control of those goods until expects to retain the intellectual property of the developed they are used by the customer, control transfers when the technology throughout the programme life.
Such contributions Group is notified by the customer of their use: and are treated as customer consideration and initially recognised as a contract liability when receivable.
Contributions are Goods supplied subject to customer acceptance.
Within subsequently included in the transaction price attributable to the aerospace industry goods are frequently subject to goods and services provided to the customer during the customer acceptance testing on delivery, or at the Groups production phase of the programme.
Where the contribution is facilities.
Normally the Group is able, through its own received more than 12 months in advance of goods and services testing procedures, to predict with reasonable certainty being provided to the customer, the financing element of the that acceptance testing will be successful and accordingly contribution, if significant, is separately identified and acceptance testing will not affect the determination of when recognised as finance income over the period goods and control passes.
Where however the Group cannot predict the services are provided.
outcome with reasonable certainty, control is not considered to transfer until the goods have been accepted by the customer.
Meggitt PLC 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Research and development Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the Revenue from external customers continued income statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred Where the Group makes contributions to customers to on projects where the related expenditure is separately participate in aerospace programmes, typically in the form of identifiable, measurable and management are satisfied as to cash, such payments are initially recognised as a contract asset the ultimate technical and commercial viability of the project provided the Group has received, or it is highly probable that and that the asset will generate future economic benefits it will receive, contracts from the same customer and relating based on all relevant available information, are recognised to the same aerospace programme see also programme as an intangible asset.
Capitalised development costs are participation costs policy.
Where the payment is made more subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation and than 12 months in advance of goods and services being impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to net operating provided to the customer, the financing element of the costs over periods expected to benefit, typically up to 15 years, contribution, if significant, is separately identified and commencing with launch of the product.
Development costs not recognised as finance costs over the period goods and services meeting the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
Other than such payments, the Group does not incur significant incremental costs to obtain contracts.
Programme participation costs Programme participation costs consist of cash payments made Exceptional operating items to OEMs in connection with their selection of the Groups Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group has are considered nonrecurring and which are excluded from the obtained principal supplier status.
The treatment of programme underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and participation costs depends on the contractual relationship measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10 between the Group and the third party to whom the payment are classified as exceptional operating items.
They include, is made: for instance, costs directly attributable to the integration of an acquired business and significant site consolidation and other Where the payment is made to a third party under a revenue restructuring costs.
Additionally in 2017, given its significance, contract as defined by IFRS 15, or the award of future IFRS the impairment loss arising from cancellation by the customer 15 revenue contracts on the programme from the same party of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme was treated as an is highly probable, payments are initially recognised as a exceptional operating item.
Exceptional operating items are contract asset see Revenue from external customers policy : included within the appropriate consolidated income statement and category but are highlighted separately in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Other payments are initially recognised as an intangible asset and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to net closure of businesses operating costs over periods expected to benefit from These items are excluded from the underlying profit measures receiving the status of principal supplier, through the sale of used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying replacement parts, typically up to 15 years.
performance of the Group see note 10.
They include, for instance, gains or losses made on the disposal or closure Other intangible assets Assets acquired as part of of a business, adjustments to the fair value of contingent a business combination consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or The Group recognises intangible assets separately from receivable in respect of a disposed business and costs directly goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual attributable to the acquisition or disposal of a business.
or other legal rights and their fair value can be measured Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of reliably.
Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, businesses are included within the appropriate consolidated which is regarded as their cost.
Intangible assets are income statement category but are highlighted separately in subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation and the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Intangible assets Amortisation is charged on a straightline basis to net operating Goodwill costs over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over The nature of intangible assets recognised and their estimated the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable assets acquired useful lives are as follows: and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is Customer relationships Up to 20 years tested annually for impairment and also whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be Technology Up to 20 years recoverable.
Goodwill is held at cost less amortisation charged Trade names and trademarks Up to 15 years prior to 1 January 2004 and accumulated impairment losses.
Order backlogs Over period of backlog In the event a subsidiary to which goodwill relates is disposed, typically up to 3 years its attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Other intangible assets Software and other intangible assets Software and purchased licences, trademarks and patents are held at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on a straightline basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets, typically over periods up to 10 years.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Meggitt PLC 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Provision is made for current tax liabilities when the Group has 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable an Property, plant and equipment outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The Group depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure typically uses a weighted average of outcomes assessed as directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
possible to determine the level of provision required, unless a single best estimate of the outcome is considered to be more For rightofuse assets, cost comprises an amount equal to appropriate.
Assessments are made at the level of an individual the initial lease liability recognised, adjusted to include any tax uncertainty, unless uncertainties are considered to be payments made for the right to use the asset, initial direct costs related, in which case they are grouped together.
Provisions, incurred and estimated costs for dismantling, removing and which are not discounted given the short period over which they restoring the asset at the end of the lease term.
Lease incentives are expected to be utilised, are included within current tax receivable from the lessor are recognised as a reduction in cost.
Any liability relating to interest on tax liabilities is included within finance costs.
Depreciation is charged on a straightline basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets as follows: Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever Rightofuse assets Shorter of the useful economic events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value life of the asset and the lease term may not be recoverable.
To the extent the carrying value of an Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the difference is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
The Furnaces Up to 20 years recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the higher Fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the Motor vehicles 4 to 5 years purpose of impairment testing, assets are generally tested individually or at a CGU level which represents the lowest level Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are adjusted if appropriate.
When property, plant and equipment is largely independent of cash inflows from other assets or groups disposed, the difference between sale proceeds, net of related of assets.
Where it is not possible to allocate goodwill on a costs, and the carrying value of the asset is recognised in the nonarbitrary basis to individual CGUs, it is allocated to the income statement.
group of CGUs which represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored by management.
At each Borrowing costs balance sheet date, previously recognised impairment losses, Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or other than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if no production of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of longer required reversed with a corresponding credit to the the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are income statement.
substantially ready for their intended use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get Inventories ready for their intended use, typically at least 12 months.
All Inventories are recognised at the lower of cost and net other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement realisable value.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour, other within finance costs as incurred.
direct costs and related production overheads, based on normal operating capacity, and is determined using the firstin firstout Taxation FIFO method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, sheet date.
slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on Trade and other receivables temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and liabilities and their corresponding book values as recognised in subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment the Groups consolidated financial statements.
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of Where the Group recognises a provision, to the extent the foreign subsidiaries, except where the Group can control the outflows of economic benefits required to settle the obligation remittance and it is probable that earnings will not be remitted are recoverable from an insurer or other third party, an other in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised receivable is recognised.
Other receivables are discounted to only to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be present value where the impact is significant, using a pretax available against which deductible temporary differences can rate.
The discount rate used is based on current market be utilised.
assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks specific to the receivable which have not been reflected in Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income the undiscounted receivable.
The impact of the unwinding of statement, other comprehensive income or directly in equity discounting is recognised in the income statement within depending on where the item to which they relate has been finance income.
Given its significance, the tax credit recognised in the income statement arising from the reduction in the US federal corporate tax rate in 2017 has been excluded from the Groups underlying profit for the year see note 10.
Meggitt PLC 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provision is made for environmental liabilities, onerous Cash and cash equivalents contracts, product warranty claims and other liabilities when the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits Group has a present obligation as a result of past events, it is held at call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be liabilities, within bank and other borrowings, except where the required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably Group participates in offset arrangements with certain banks estimated.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the whereby cash and overdraft amounts are offset against impact is significant, using a pretax rate.
The discount rate each other.
used is based on current market assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks specific to the obligation Trade payables which have not been reflected in the undiscounted provision.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and The impact of the unwinding of discounting is recognised in the subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are income statement within finance costs.
Retirement benefit schemes Leases For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of The majority of the Groups leases relate to property.
A lease providing other postretirement benefits, principally healthcare, liability is recognised when the Group obtains control of the are charged to the income statement in accordance with the rightofuse asset, that is the subject of the lease.
The lease advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Past service credits liability is subsequently measured using the effective interest and costs and curtailment gains and losses are recognised method, with interest charged to finance costs.
immediately in the income statement.
At inception, the Group evaluates whether it is reasonably Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, certain that any option to extend a lease term will be exercised.
the difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and Typically, where the initial lease term for a property used for the the present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations Groups manufacturing operations is for at least five years, measured at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit the option to extend the lease term is at market rates and the obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using rightofuse asset is not considered specialised, it is unusual for the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the an extension of lease term to be reflected at lease inception.
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using interest rates of high quality The Group will however, continue to evaluate the likelihood corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the of exercising such options throughout the initial lease term.
benefits will be paid and with terms to maturity comparable When the Group is committed to extending the lease, having with the terms of the related defined benefit obligations.
Where considered the alternative options available and, where the Group has a statutory or contractual minimum funding appropriate, lessor consent to the extension has been obtained, requirement to make contributions to a scheme in respect of the Group will consider the option to be reasonably certain to past service and any such contributions are not available to the be exercised.
When an option is reasonably certain to be Group once paid as a reduction in future contributions, or as a exercised, the rightofuse asset and lease liabilities recognised refund to which the Group has an unconditional right either are adjusted to reflect the extended term.
during the life of the scheme or when the scheme liabilities are settled, an additional liability for such amounts is recognised.
Leases, which at inception have a term of less than 12 months or relate to lowvalue assets, are not recognised on the balance Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period sheet.
Payments made under such leases are charged to the in which they arise in other comprehensive income.
income statement on a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no Borrowings further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being proceeds received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are generally subsequently held at amortised cost at each balance sheet date with any transaction costs amortised to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Certain borrowings however are designated as fair value through profit and loss at inception, where the Group has interest rate derivatives in place which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings.
Such borrowings are held at fair value at each balance sheet date with any movement in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk recognised in other comprehensive income and any other movements in fair value recognised in the income statement within net operating costs.
Movements in fair value recognised in net operating costs are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Meggitt PLC 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Net investment hedges Changes in fair value of the effective portion of any hedge are Derivative financial instruments and hedging recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional the income statement within net operating costs.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and income are transferred to the income statement if the foreign are subsequently held at fair value at each balance sheet date subsidiary to which they relate is disposed.
Any such gains or using values determined indirectly from quoted prices that are losses are excluded from the underlying profit measures used observable for the asset or liability.
by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The method by which any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement at fair value is recognised, depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedging instrument and if Derivatives not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge so the nature of the item hedged.
The Group recognises an instrument as a hedging instrument by documenting, at its accounting, changes in fair value are recognised immediately inception, the economic relationship between the instrument in the income statement within net operating costs.
Gains and losses arising from measuring these derivatives at fair value and the hedged item and the objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
To be designated as are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of a hedging instrument, an instrument must also be assessed, at inception and on an ongoing basis, to be effective in the Group see note 10. offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items as outlined in the objectives and strategy for undertaking the Share-based compensation hedging transaction and any changes in fair values must not be The Group operates a number of sharebased compensation dominated by the effect of credit risk.
schemes, which are subject to nonmarket based vesting conditions and are principally equitysettled.
To the extent the maturity of the derivative financial instruments are more than 12 months from the balance sheet date, they are For equitysettled schemes, at the date of grant, the Group classified as noncurrent assets or noncurrent liabilities.
All estimates the number of awards expected to vest as a result of other derivative financial instruments are classified as current vesting conditions and the fair value of this estimated number assets or current liabilities.
of awards is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the period for which services are Fair value hedges received.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its Changes in fair value, not attributable to credit risk, of derivative estimate of the number of awards expected to vest and adjusts financial instruments, that are designated and qualify as fair the amount recognised cumulatively in the income statement to value hedges, are recognised in the income statement within reflect the revised estimate.
When awards are exercised and the net operating costs together with changes in fair value of the Company issues new shares, the proceeds received, net of any hedged item.
Any changes in fair value attributable to credit risk directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any difference capital nominal value and share premium.
recognised in the income statement between movements in fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is excluded from Share capital the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs and measure the underlying performance of the Group see directly attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted note 10.
The Group currently applies fair value hedge from the proceeds recognised in equity.
accounting to the hedging of fixed interest rate risk on bank and other borrowings.
Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Cash flow hedges Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash retained earnings.
flow hedges, are initially recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion are Dividends recognised immediately in the income statement within net Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when approved by operating costs.
To the extent changes in fair value are the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities when recognised in other comprehensive income, they are recycled approved by the shareholders.
to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
If the hedging instrument Recent accounting developments is sold or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, A number of additional new standards and amendments and the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other revisions to existing standards have been published and are comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods.
They within net operating costs.
The Group no longer holds any have not been early adopted in the consolidated financial derivative financial instruments for which cash flow hedge statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant accounting is applied.
impact on the consolidated financial statements when they are adopted.
Meggitt PLC 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to a number of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by a centralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities see also pages 57 to 58 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposure arises with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposure based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge expected exposures up to five years.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 33.
The Group does not hedge exposure arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to partially hedge its net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk, whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to generally maintain at least 25% of its net borrowings at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through interest rate derivatives which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings and floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 33. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across a large number of customers across the world.
In addition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Note 25 details the Groups credit risk exposures in relation to its customers.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial assets which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
The credit quality of the Groups counterparties is set out in notes 27 and 33.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolton acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following tables analyse the Groups nonderivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2018 Less than 1-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m Trade and other payables 441.4 0.9 0.4 442.7 Contract liabilities see note 29 47.9 11.7 32.2 91.8 Derivative financial instruments Inflows 5.7 3.5 9.2 Lease liabilities 19.2 60.7 34.1 114.0 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 907.9 235.2 1,143.1 Interest payments on borrowings 33.1 86.1 25.4 144.6 Total 535.9 1,063.8 327.3 1,927.0 2017 Restated Less than 15 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m Trade and other payables 391.9 2.0 3.5 397.4 Contract liabilities see note 29 52.5 6.2 16.9 75.6 Derivative financial instruments Inflows 7.3 12.4 19.7 Lease liabilities 20.5 59.5 42.4 122.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 61.7 551.3 444.4 1,057.4 Interest payments on borrowings 31.5 96.5 39.4 167.4 Total 550.8 703.1 546.6 1,800.5 Excludes social security and other taxes of 11.1m 2017: 10.2m see note 28.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Meggitt PLC 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposure in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assumes no hedge ineffectiveness.
2018 2017 Restated Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD Sterling exchange rate 10% 48.9 107.9 39.6 103.9 US yield curve 1% 14.2 17.8 0.3 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 100.2m 2017: 93.8m in respect of US dollar net borrowings, and 7.7m 2017: 10.1m in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar net borrowings are designated as a net investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
The impact of a 1% movement in the US yield curve includes the effect on the Groups foreign currency forward contracts and other financial assets and liabilities.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net assets.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long term.
The Groups posttax weighted average cost of capital at 31 December 2018 is approximately 6.6% 2017: 6.2% and its capital structure is as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Net debt see note 43 1,074.1 1,060.8 Total equity 2,492.4 2,311.5 Debt equity % 43.1% 45.9% The Board believes that in maintaining an efficient balance sheet, a net debt:EBITDA ratio of between 1.5x and 2.5x is appropriate, whilst retaining the flexibility to move outside the range if appropriate.
Further details on the Groups strategy for delivering net debt:EBITDA in this range can be found on pages 57 to 58 of the Chief Financial Officers review, which includes details on how the Group has complied with the two principal financial covenant requirements contained in its committed credit facilities.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements are described below.
Further consideration of these critical estimates and judgements can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 88.
Critical accounting estimates Impairment testing of goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its CGUs or groups of CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, longterm growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
Meggitt PLC 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Critical accounting estimates continued Cancellation of Dassault Falcon 5X programme In late 2017, Dassault Aviation Dassault announced cancellation of its Falcon 5X programme and the launch of a new programme, the Falcon 6X, featuring the same cross section, but powered by Pratt & Whitney Canada engines rather than the Silvercrest engine selected for the Falcon 5X.
The cancellation resulted in the Group recording an impairment charge in 2017 of 58.0m restated, principally related to development costs incurred by Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS.
In 2018, MABS was selected to provide the wheel and braking system for the Falcon 6X.
This aircraft is forecast to enter service in 2022.
Following the selection of MABS for the Falcon 6X, the Group has reassessed the estimated recoverable value of the Falcon 5X development costs impaired in 2017.
The Group has concluded there are no indicators that any element of the impairment should be reversed.
In reaching this conclusion, the Group has considered the following: Contractual terms agreed with Dassault for the Falcon 6X.
The contractual terms do not include any recovery of previously incurred 5X costs, either directly or through the pricing mechanism agreed with Dassault for the supply of OE aftermarket parts on the Falcon 6X: Falcon 6X specifications.
The increased maximum takeoff landing weight of the Falcon 6X, when compared to the Falcon 5X, will require a redesign of the braking system.
The braking system for the Falcon 5X was the most significant and complex area of development activity for that programme.
Other knowhow developed by MABS for the Falcon 5X is, at least to an extent, capable of being leveraged and applied to the Falcon 6X programme.
However, the cost recording system used to track Falcon 5X development activities was not designed to retrospectively provide an analysis of costs incurred between those areas requiring different levels of redesign effort to meet the new Falcon 6X specifications.
The Group has concluded it is not possible to derive a reliable estimate of any costs incurred during the Falcon 5X development that are directly attributable to the Falcon 6X specifications: and Forecast Falcon 6X development costs.
The level of forecast development spend required by MABS to complete the Falcon 6X development, compared to other new programmes it has been awarded in recent years, does not indicate any significant transfer of knowhow from the Falcon 5X programme.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided in note 36.
Environmental provisions The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law see note 34.
In determining the provision to be recognised, advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the estimate of the level and timing of remediation costs, including the period for which operations and monitoring activities will be required to be carried out.
These estimates are revised regularly as remediation activities progress and further information is obtained on the extent of activities to be performed by the Group.
In the last five years, annual reductions and annual increases in costs estimates have both been experienced.
If the cost estimates on which the provision at 31 December 2018 is based were to change by 15%, the largest observed overall annual movement seen in this five year period, the provision recognised would need to change by approximately 12.0m.
During the last five years, no significant changes to the estimated period for which operations and maintenance activities will be required have been necessary.
However, as the period for which groundwater testing has been performed increases, the results of that testing provide a more reliable estimate of the extent to which such activities will continue to be required in the future.
It is reasonably foreseeable that, depending on groundwater testing results in 2019, the periods for which operations and maintenance will be required could increase by up to five years.
Were an increase of five years to be required, the provision recognised would need to increase by approximately 12.0m.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the ongoing impact of historical environmental events on the Group see note 34.
These insurance policies however, have monetary caps and in some cases are term policies, whereby costs are only recoverable if incurred by specified dates.
The estimates of the extent and timing of remediation costs, used to determine the provision, are also used in determining the level of receivable to recognise.
If remediation cost estimates were to change by 15%, the receivable recognised would need to change by approximately 3.0m reflecting the impact of the insurance policy caps in place.
If additionally, the estimated period for which operations and maintenance is required were to increase by five years, the receivable recognised would need to increase by 3.5m.
Meggitt PLC 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Critical accounting estimates continued Income taxes In determining the Groups tax provision, it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Groups tax provision at 31 December 2018 is 39.2m 2017: 37.4m and reflects a number of estimates where the amount of tax payable is either currently under audit by the tax authorities or relates to a period which has yet to be audited.
These areas include the deductibility of interest on certain borrowings used to finance acquisitions made by the Group and the value at which goods and services are transferred between Group companies.
The nature of the items, for which a provision is held, is such that the final outcome could vary from the amounts held once a final tax determination is made, although currently none of these exposures is considered individually material.
Based on the Groups recent experience of revisions to previous tax estimates as more information has become available, and assuming no significant changes in legislation from those already announced, it currently expects the outcome across all open items to range from a potential increase of 16.0m in the provision to a potential reduction of 5.0m.
To the extent the estimated final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
Critical accounting judgements Level at which impairment testing of goodwill is performed Goodwill is required to be allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the Groups judgement, with the exception of businesses within its Equipment Group segment and the advanced composite businesses acquired in late 2015, it is appropriate to allocate goodwill to the group of CGUs represented by its operating segments.
In making this judgement, the Group considers the extent of consolidation of activities within each segment other than in the Meggitt Equipment Group is such that allocating goodwill to individual CGUs within that segment would require management to perform significant arbitrary allocations.
The allocation of goodwill at a segment level is consistent with the level at which it is monitored by management.
The cash inflows of the advanced composites businesses are not considered independent of one another, and continue to be treated as a single CGU.
Although integration of the activities of the CGU with the rest of the businesses within its operating segment is substantially complete, it is still possible to reliably allocate goodwill to the CGU and it continues to be monitored by management at this level.
Accordingly impairment testing in the year has been performed at the CGU level.
Due to the nature of CGUs within the Meggitt Equipment Group, which principally operate independently of one another, goodwill can be reliably allocated to each CGU within the segment for testing.
Capitalisation of development costs The Group is required to make judgements as to when development costs meet the criteria to be recognised as intangible assets.
The majority of capitalised development costs relate to technology developed for aerospace programmes.
In such cases, costs are typically not capitalised until a contract to develop the technology is awarded by a customer as, prior to this date, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate the point at which research activities conclude and development activities commence.
Absent a contract, the Group also does not believe there is generally sufficient certainty over the future economic benefits that will be generated from the technology, to allow capitalisation of these costs.
Post contract award, the Group will capitalise development costs provided it expects to retain the intellectual property in the technology throughout substantially all of the life of the aircraft or engine and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
In making a judgement as to whether economic benefits will flow to the Group, the Group makes estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group has a solesource position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture and costs to complete the development activity.
During 2018, the Group recognised 58.6m of development costs as an intangible asset see note 19.
Capitalisation of programme participation costs Following the adoption of IFRS 15 in 2018, free of charge or deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC, which represented approximately 85% of capitalised programme participation costs under the Groups previous accounting policy, are now expensed as incurred and no longer recognised as an intangible asset.
Accordingly, the Group no longer considers the capitalisation of programme participation costs to be a critical judgement.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m At a point in time 1,916.5 1,875.3 Over time: Power by the hour Cost per brake landing 45.0 39.1 Over time: Other 119.1 80.0 Revenue 2,080.6 1,994.4 Revenue recognised in the current year relating to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in the prior year was not significant.
Meggitt PLC 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group managed its businesses for the year ended 31 December 2018 under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Details of the Groups divisions can be found on pages 30 to 39 of the Strategic report.
Year ended 31 December 2018: Analysis of income statement items The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
A detailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 389.1 577.1 391.3 541.0 253.0 2,151.5 Intersegment revenue 7.3 1.5 2.4 42.4 17.3 70.9 Revenue from external customers 381.8 575.6 388.9 498.6 235.7 2,080.6 At a point in time 349.3 570.7 385.0 489.9 121.6 1,916.5 Over time: Power by the hour Cost per brake landing 31.9 4.9 8.2 45.0 Over time: Other 0.6 3.9 0.5 114.1 119.1 Revenue from external customers by basis of recognition 381.8 575.6 388.9 498.6 235.7 2,080.6 Civil OE 14.1 145.6 124.2 179.1 1.3 464.3 Civil Aftermarket 275.3 272.7 39.4 72.8 0.3 660.5 Defence 90.9 100.1 209.0 143.2 188.0 731.2 Energy 39.7 0.1 51.1 37.5 128.4 Other 1.5 17.5 16.2 52.4 8.6 96.2 Revenue from external customers by end market 381.8 575.6 388.9 498.6 235.7 2,080.6 Underlying operating profit see note 10 121.5 127.0 6.0 84.0 28.8 367.3 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 110.7 Operating profit see note 10 256.6 Finance income see note 12 1.0 Finance costs see note 13 41.5 Net finance costs 40.5 Profit before tax 216.1 Tax charge see note 14 37.1 Profit for the year 179.0 Exceptional operating items 3.9 4.5 3.5 7.1 0.5 19.5 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 62.9 21.3 21.4 20.2 6.4 132.2 Depreciation see note 21 9.2 9.6 12.3 15.8 6.7 53.6 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between costs and segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Central exceptional operating items of 14.7m were not included in segmental exceptional operating items reviewed by the CODM.
Included within central exceptional operating items is an impairment loss of 8.2m see notes 21 and 23.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 40.7m has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 8.3% of revenue 172.0m.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt PLC 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 31 December 2018: Analysis of additions to non-current assets Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Development costs see note 19 24.8 4.9 0.8 23.8 4.3 58.6 Programme participation costs see note 19 0.7 0.2 0.9 Other purchased intangible assets 0.1 8.7 1.0 2.1 0.4 12.3 Property, plant and equipment 11.0 14.4 23.4 9.3 3.1 61.2 Total 36.6 28.2 25.2 35.2 7.8 133.0 Relate to those noncurrent assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
At 31 December 2018: Analysis of segmental trading assets Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 534.3 Meggitt Control Systems 418.2 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 282.5 Meggitt Sensing Systems 489.5 Meggitt Equipment Group 176.6 Total segmental trading assets 1,901.1 Centrally managed trading assets 146.1 Goodwill see note 18 2,035.3 Other intangible assets 527.8 Investments see note 22 12.9 Derivative financial instruments noncurrent see note 33 10.0 Deferred tax assets see note 35 16.3 Derivative financial instruments current see note 33 9.3 Current tax recoverable 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 27 181.9 Assets classified as held for sale see note 23 10.3 Total assets 4,857.4 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2018 2017 Restated m m UK 169.1 192.2 Rest of Europe 392.6 396.0 United States of America 1,220.6 1,133.5 Rest of World 298.3 272.7 Revenue 2,080.6 1,994.4 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
31 December 31 December 1 January 2018 2017 2017 Restated Restated m m m UK 619.7 653.1 652.8 Rest of Europe 205.1 201.7 211.2 United States of America 2,782.8 2,669.9 3,020.8 Rest of World 17.4 11.4 12.9 Non-current assets 3,625.0 3,536.1 3,897.7 Segmental noncurrent assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude investments, trade and other receivables, contract assets, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Meggitt PLC 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 6.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated : Analysis of income statement items The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 388.1 522.5 339.4 525.8 266.4 2,042.2 Intersegment revenue 6.5 1.2 1.9 24.6 13.6 47.8 Revenue from external customers 381.6 521.3 337.5 501.2 252.8 1,994.4 At a point in time 353.6 517.9 337.5 492.6 173.7 1,875.3 Over time: Power by the hour Cost per brake landing 28.0 3.4 7.7 39.1 Over time: Other 0.9 79.1 80.0 Revenue from external customers by basis of recognition 381.6 521.3 337.5 501.2 252.8 1,994.4 Civil OE 17.9 134.4 111.1 178.8 4.9 447.1 Civil Aftermarket 276.5 235.1 38.6 73.0 1.7 624.9 Defence 85.5 92.9 174.1 138.1 191.1 681.7 Energy 38.3 0.3 57.5 21.6 117.7 Other 1.7 20.6 13.4 53.8 33.5 123.0 Revenue from external customers by end market 381.6 521.3 337.5 501.2 252.8 1,994.4 Underlying operating profit see note 10 133.5 117.2 23.8 64.2 14.6 353.3 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 80.6 Operating profit see note 10 272.7 Finance income see note 12 1.4 Finance costs see note 13 45.8 Net finance costs 44.4 Profit before tax 228.3 Tax credit see note 14 64.5 Profit for the year 292.8 Exceptional operating items see note 11 55.2 4.1 4.5 2.9 2.0 68.7 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 58.7 19.5 23.1 20.7 8.9 130.9 Impairment gain loss see note 19 1.5 1.7 0.7 0.9 Depreciation see note 21 10.1 9.5 10.8 16.0 7.5 53.9 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between costs and segments.
Central exceptional operating items of 4.4m were not included in segmental exceptional operating items reviewed by the CODM.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 37.4m was charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Excludes amounts charged to exceptional operating items of 54.4m see note 19.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 7.8% of revenue 155.3m.
Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated : Analysis of additions to non-current assets Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Development costs see note 19 29.5 5.1 0.6 24.4 1.9 61.5 Programme participation costs see note 19 1.8 0.2 2.0 Other purchased intangible assets 0.1 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.7 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 8.7 9.4 32.6 10.7 11.3 72.7 Total 40.1 15.4 34.4 36.0 13.9 139.8 Relate to those noncurrent assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
Meggitt PLC 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued At 31 December 2017 Restated : Analysis of segmental trading assets Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 513.4 Meggitt Control Systems 346.0 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 234.1 Meggitt Sensing Systems 450.8 Meggitt Equipment Group 199.2 Total segmental trading assets 1,743.5 Centrally managed trading assets 166.9 Goodwill see note 18 1,944.9 Other intangible assets 592.0 Investments see note 22 13.6 Derivative financial instruments noncurrent see note 33 28.5 Deferred tax assets see note 35 26.3 Derivative financial instruments current see note 33 3.6 Current tax recoverable 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 27 118.5 Assets classified as held for sale see note 23 9.7 Total assets 4,651.8 At 1 January 2017 Restated : Analysis of segmental trading assets Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 582.7 Meggitt Control Systems 370.8 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 239.9 Meggitt Sensing Systems 461.8 Meggitt Equipment Group 196.5 Total segmental trading assets 1,851.7 Centrally managed trading assets 198.4 Goodwill see note 18 2,095.7 Other intangible assets 738.3 Investments see note 22 14.8 Derivative financial instruments noncurrent 21.8 Deferred tax assets 28.8 Derivative financial instruments current 4.2 Current tax recoverable 4.4 Cash and cash equivalents 173.8 Total assets 5,131.9 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Auditors remuneration Payable to  LLP and its associates: 2018 2017 m m For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 1.5 1.2 For the audit of the accounts of any subsidiary of the Company in respect of the current year 0.7 0.7 Auditors remuneration 2.2 1.9 Includes in 2018, amounts in respect of the transition to IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
Nonaudit fees payable to  LLP were 0.1m 2017: 0.1m.
Meggitt PLC 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 8.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Restated m m Raw materials and consumables used 635.3 564.4 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 32.3 2.0 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC 66.5 56.5 Employee costs see note 9 749.9 724.4 Research and development costs 79.7 95.4 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 22.1 22.1 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 0.8 0.6 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 91.5 93.5 Amortisation of software and other intangible assets see note 20 17.8 14.7 Impairment loss on capitalised development costs see note 19 0.9 Depreciation see note 21 53.6 53.9 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment see note 21 3.6 2.0 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.0 0.8 Loss on disposal of software and other intangible assets 0.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 34.2 73.1 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses see note 10 25.1 25.3 Financial instruments see note 10 10.1 60.7 Net foreign exchange gains 0.3 7.1 Share of loss profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 1.5 0.6 Other operating income 3.6 5.4 Total research and development expenditure in the year is 138.3m 2017 restated: 157.9m of which 31.8m 2017 restated: 38.8m is charged to cost of sales or manufacturing work in progress, 47.9m 2017 restated: 56.6m is charged to net operating costs and 58.6m 2017 restated: 62.5m is capitalised as development costs see note 19.
Employee information 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 593.4 574.8 Social security costs 99.7 102.9 Retirement benefit costs see note 36 43.3 38.7 Sharebased payment expense see note 38 13.5 8.0 Employee costs including executive directors 749.9 724.4 2018 2017 Number Number Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,170 1,169 Meggitt Control Systems 1,651 1,695 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 3,082 2,632 Meggitt Sensing Systems 2,834 2,927 Meggitt Equipment Group 1,251 1,521 Corporate including shared services 498 457 Total persons employed 10,486 10,401 Other persons providing similar services 896 673 Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors 11,382 11,074 Meggitt PLC 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Items excluded from underlying profit measures are treated consistently with the way performance is measured under the Groups shortterm and longterm incentive plans and with covenant requirements defined in the Groups committed credit facilities.
2018 2017 Restated Notes m m Operating profit 256.6 272.7 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses a 25.1 25.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations b 91.5 93.5 Financial instruments c 10.1 60.7 Exceptional operating items see note 11 34.2 73.1 Adjustments to operating profit 110.7 80.6 Underlying operating profit 367.3 353.3 Profit before tax 216.1 228.3 Adjustments to operating profit per above 110.7 80.6 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 36 8.0 11.3 Adjustments to profit before tax 118.7 91.9 Underlying profit before tax 334.8 320.2 Profit for the year 179.0 292.8 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 118.7 91.9 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 29.1 49.0 Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 14 4.1 88.3 Adjustments to profit for the year 85.5 45.4 Underlying profit for the year 264.5 247.4 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 18.1m 2017 restated: 8.5m relating to exceptional operating items has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 92.6m 2017 restated: 72.1m included within net operating costs.
The Board considers net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations to be a nontrading item and accordingly excludes it from underlying profit measures.
Due to the significance of the tax credits arising from the reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax, these amounts have been excluded from underlying profit measures.
Delivery of the Groups strategy includes investment in acquisitions that enhance its technology portfolio.
The exclusion of significant items arising from M&A activity is designed by the Board to align shortterm operational decisions with this longer term strategy.
Accordingly amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses are excluded from underlying profit measures.
These include gains or losses made on the disposal or closure of a business, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or receivable in respect of a disposed business and costs directly attributable to the acquisition and disposal of businesses.
2018 2017 m m Gain on disposal of businesses before disposal expenses see note 42 30.4 40.3 Costs related to the disposal of businesses in the current period 2.5 0.6 Gain on disposal of businesses see note 44 27.9 39.7 Costs related to the disposal of businesses in prior periods 0.3 Costs related to the acquisition of businesses 0.2 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration payable relating to previously acquired businesses 3.6 Impairment of assets classified as held for sale see note 23 6.1 14.2 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 25.1 25.3 Meggitt PLC 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit continued b.
For the same reasons as described in note 10a, the Group also excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2018 2017 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 109.3 108.2 Less amortisation of software and other intangible assets see note 20 17.8 14.7 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 91.5 93.5 c. To ensure appropriate and timely commercial decisions are made as to when and how to mitigate the Groups foreign currency and interest rate exposures, gains and losses arising from the marking to market of financial instruments that are not hedge accounted are excluded from underlying profit measures.
Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recognised if hedge accounting had been applied.
When interest rate derivatives qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference recognised in the income statement between the movements in fair value of the derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
Where cross currency derivatives and treasury lock derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
2018 2017 Restated m m Movement in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 27.9 73.8 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 1.0 0.5 Movement in fair value of interest rate derivatives 5.4 8.1 Movement in fair value of fixed rate borrowings due to interest rate risk see note 32 4.9 8.9 Movement in fair value of cross currency derivatives 16.8 13.9 Movement in fair value of treasury lock derivative 0.5 0.5 Financial instruments Loss gain 10.1 60.7 11.
Exceptional operating items Delivery of the Groups strategy includes the restructuring of its cost base to deliver operational improvements.
The exclusion from underlying profit measures of significant items arising from site consolidations and business restructuring is designed by the Board to align shortterm operational decisions with this longerterm strategy.
Due to the significance of the impairment loss in 2017 arising from cancellation of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme it was excluded from underlying profit measures.
The Board considers the impact of the Court ruling on Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation in 2018 to be a nontrading item and accordingly has excluded it from underlying profit measures.
Income statement Cash expenditure 2018 2017 2018 2017 Restated Notes m m m m Site consolidations a 28.7 7.9 8.2 8.5 Impairment loss arising from cancellation of Dassault Falcon 5X programme b 58.0 Business restructuring costs 3.1 2.7 3.1 0.8 Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation see note 36 1.7 Integration of acquired businesses 0.7 4.5 0.7 4.5 Exceptional operating items 34.2 73.1 12.0 13.8 a.
This relates to costs incurred in respect of the Groups previously announced plans to reduce its footprint by 20% by the end of 2021.
Cumulative costs since the announcement are 43.6m 2017: 14.9m.
In 2018, costs are principally in respect of the move to a new facility being constructed at Ansty Park in the West Midlands which will enable the Group to consolidate a range of manufacturing, engineering and support operations into a single centre of excellence.
The charge in 2018 includes impairment losses in respect of property, plant and equipment of 3.6m see note 21 and assets classified as held for sale of 4.6m see note 23. b.
On 13 December 2017, Dassault Aviation announced the cancellation of its Falcon 5X programme.
The cancellation resulted in a cost of 58.0m being recognised in 2017, comprising an impairment loss of 54.4m in respect of capitalised development costs and 3.6m in respect of the reduction of inventory to net realisable value see note 4.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items is 4.8m 2017 restated: 25.3m.
Meggitt PLC 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Finance income 2018 2017 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 Unwinding of interest on other receivables see note 34 0.8 1.2 Other finance income 0.2 0.1 Finance income 1.0 1.4 13.
Finance costs 2018 2017 Restated m m Interest on bank borrowings 2.6 2.2 Interest on senior notes 28.0 30.0 Interest on lease liabilities 3.7 3.8 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 34 1.7 2.0 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 36 8.0 11.3 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.8 0.9 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see note 19 3.3 4.4 Finance costs 41.5 45.8 14.
Tax 2018 2017 Restated m m Current tax current year 32.7 27.5 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 7.0 4.2 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 3.7 Deferred tax impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 10 4.1 88.3 Deferred tax effects of changes in other statutory tax rates 0.6 2.7 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 12.7 1.5 Tax charge credit 37.1 64.5 On 22 December 2017, the US government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA.
The TCJA made substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Among those changes was a significant reduction in the generally applicable US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, with effect from 1 January 2018.
The Groups deferred tax balances relating to its US operations were remeasured in 2017 to reflect this rate reduction, with the impact excluded from the Groups underlying tax charge see note 10.
In 2018, the Group made an additional USD40.0m deficit contribution into certain of its US pension schemes.
This contribution is deductible against the Groups US taxable profits for the year ended 31 December 2017 and accordingly attracts federal tax relief at 35%.
The difference between the tax relief at 35% and the deferred tax recognised on this deficit at 21% at 31 December 2017 of 4.1m has been excluded from the Groups underlying tax charge for 2018 see note 10.
The Finance No 2 Act 2015 and Finance Act 2016, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK from 19% to 17% with effect from 1 April 2020.
As these changes were substantively enacted in prior years, they have had no significant impact on the tax charge for the current year.
Reconciliation of tax charge credit A reconciliation based on the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the Groups consolidated businesses is as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Profit before tax at weighted average tax rate of 22.2% 2017 restated: 18.4% 47.9 41.8 Effects of: Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 10 4.1 88.3 Changes in other statutory tax rates 0.6 2.7 Tax effect of sharebased payments 0.9 1.1 Nontaxable gain on disposal of businesses 5.0 0.4 Tax concessions 8.6 13.5 Tax credits and incentives 2.7 4.2 Additional provisions in respect of historical tax uncertainties Unused amounts reversed 0.9 4.1 Other permanent differences 3.3 3.1 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 7.0 4.2 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 12.7 1.5 Tax charge credit 37.1 64.5 Calculated as the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the Groups businesses in their respective countries in the year.
It does not therefore reflect any changes in tax rates that have been substantively enacted, but are not applicable until future periods.
The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that a one percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2018 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 9.8m of which 7.6m arises from the impact of the change in tax rate on net deferred tax liabilities.
Meggitt PLC 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 14.
Tax continued The tax reconciliation for 2018 includes 8.6m in respect of tax concessions in the UK and Switzerland which allow income to be taxed at beneficial rates, 2.7m in respect of tax credits and incentives in the US for items such as research & development expenditure and additional provisions of 0.9m in respect of various historical tax issues in the Group see note 4.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2018 2017 Restated Before Tax After Before Tax After tax charge tax tax charge tax credit credit m m m m m m Current tax currency translation movements 92.4 2.4 94.8 147.5 2.8 150.3 Deferred tax currency translation movements 1.7 0.2 1.5 Deferred tax movements in fair value of financial liabilities arising from changes in credit risk 0.8 0.2 0.6 2.1 0.4 1.7 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 46.2 7.3 38.9 66.6 27.1 39.5 Other comprehensive income expense 137.4 4.8 132.6 83.2 29.5 112.7 Current tax 2.4 2.8 Deferred tax 7.2 26.7 Total 4.8 29.5 Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2018 2017 m m Current tax credit relating to sharebased payment expense 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax charge relating to sharebased payment expense 0.4 0.2 Total 0.3 0.1 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares excludes treasury shares and any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 39.
The weighted average number of treasury shares excluded is Nil shares 2017: Nil shares and the weighted average number of own shares excluded is 4.1m shares 2017: 2.4m shares.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that all potentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group, this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS Restated Restated m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 179.0 773.2 23.2 292.8 774.2 37.8 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 12.7 0.4 15.0 0.7 Diluted EPS 179.0 785.9 22.8 292.8 789.2 37.1 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of basic EPS.
It is reconciled to basic EPS below: 2018 2017 Restated Pence Pence Basic EPS 23.2 37.8 Adjust for effects of: Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 3.2 3.1 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 9.1 7.8 Financial instruments 1.0 6.3 Exceptional operating items 3.8 6.2 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 0.8 1.0 Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax 0.5 11.4 Underlying basic EPS 34.2 32.0 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year is 33.7 pence 2017 restated: 31.3 pence.
Meggitt PLC 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Dividends 2018 2017 m m In respect of earlier years 79.6 In respect of 2017: Interim of 5.05p per share 39.0 Final of 10.80p per share 83.3 In respect of 2018: Interim of 5.30p per share 40.9 Dividends paid in cash 124.2 118.6 A final dividend in respect of 2018 of 11.35p per share 2017: 10.80p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 88.2m 2017: 83.3m is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2019.
This dividend is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements as it has not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group made sales to the joint venture of 3.3m 2017: 3.7m and purchases from the joint venture of 0.2m 2017: 0.4m.
Amounts due both from and to the joint venture at the balance sheet date are not significant.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined for 2018 as members of the Board and the Group Executive Committee, is set out below.
Prior year comparatives have not been restated to reflect changes to the definition of key management during the year.
2018 2017 m m Salaries and other shortterm employee benefits 11.1 11.7 Retirement benefit expense 0.2 Sharebased payment expense 4.1 2.3 Total 15.2 14.2 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 92 to 114 which forms part of these consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill 2018 2017 Restated m m Cost at 1 January 1,944.9 2,095.7 Exchange rate adjustments 91.2 140.9 Business acquired 10.6 Businesses disposed see note 44 0.8 20.5 Cost at 31 December 2,035.3 1,944.9 The date at which the Group performs its annual impairment testing is 30 June.
If any events or changes in circumstances subsequent to this date indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, further testing is performed.
No impairment charge was required in the year 2017: Nil and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil 2017: Nil.
An analysis of goodwill by CGU or group of CGUs is shown below: 2018 2017 Restated m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 807.2 766.5 Meggitt Control Systems MCS 484.1 462.4 Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC Excluding EDAC & Advanced Composites 135.3 130.4 EDAC & Advanced Composites 236.2 226.7 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 242.7 234.6 Meggitt Training Systems MTS 81.6 77.1 Other 48.2 47.2 Total 2,035.3 1,944.9 For each CGU or group of CGUs, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in 2018.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using a pretax discount rate appropriate to the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
Meggitt PLC 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 18.
Goodwill continued The key assumptions for the value in use calculations for all CGUs and groups of CGUs are as follows: Sales volumes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans These are based on management estimates for growth in civil aerospace OE, civil aerospace aftermarket, defence and energy markets, and reflect the position each business has on individual aerospace and other programmes.
They are derived from industry forecasts for deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets: air traffic growth: defence spending by the US DoD and other major governments: and oil prices.
The exposure of MABS, MCS, MPC and MSS to these markets is set out in the Strategic report on page 25.
MTS operates entirely within the defence market.
The Groups medium term expectations for growth in each of these markets, is set out in the Strategic report on pages 26 to 29.
Selling prices and production cost changes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans These are based on contractual agreements with customers and suppliers: managements past experience and expectations of future market changes: and the continued maturity of the Meggitt Production System.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the longterm nature of the industry in which each CGU or group of CGUs operates: external industry forecasts of longterm growth in the aerospace and defence sectors: the extent to which a CGU or group of CGUs has solesource positions on platforms where it is able to share in a continuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues: the maturity of the platforms it supplies: and the technological content of its products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, a conservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the longterm GDP growth rates for the principal countries in which the CGU or group of CGUs operates UK: 1.8% 2017: 2.0%, US: 2.0% 2017: 2.3%, the latter has been used.
Discount rates applied to future cash flows The Groups posttax weighted average cost of capital WACC is used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC is adjusted to a pretax rate and to reflect risks specific to the CGU or group of CGUs not already reflected in its future cash flows.
The pretax discount rates used are as follows: 2018 2017 % % MABS 9.0 10.0 MCS 9.7 10.7 MPC excluding EDAC & Advanced Composites 9.3 10.1 EDAC & Advanced Composites 8.6 10.1 MSS 8.0 8.3 MTS 10.5 11.9 Other 8.8-11.0 9.1-12.0 Each CGU and group of CGUs listed above has significant cash flows that arise in the US.
The reduction in US federal tax rate from 35% to 21% at the end of 2017 has accordingly resulted in the discount rates used for the Groups 2018 annual impairment testing being lower across all CGUs and groups of CGUs than those used for the 2017 impairment testing, which were performed prior to the tax reductions being enacted.
When the impairment testing was performed in 2018, the least headroom was in EDAC and Advanced Composites and MTS.
EDAC and Advanced Composites had the least headroom in percentage terms at 56% of the carrying value of goodwill.
The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were: Compound annual revenue growth over the five year plan period of approximately 15% Over the three year period since acquisition, compound annual revenue growth has been 11%, with 17% growth in 2018.
The plan reflects this past experience, together with recent contract awards, including the USD750m multiyear award from Pratt & Whitney for advanced composite parts for the F119 and F135 engines which power the F22 Raptor and F35 Lightning II aircraft.
The level of growth has also been benchmarked against third party analysis for growth in advanced composite demand over the period covered by the plan.
Compound annual revenue growth would need to reduce to 12%, without any mitigating action on costs, before an impairment would be triggered.
An average gross margin over the five year plan period of approximately 24% The plan assumes a gradual increase in gross margin over the plan period attributable to increased volumes: elimination of incremental costs incurred in recent years as operational challenges were experienced in ramping up production for higher volumes: and reductions in costs as production of certain high volume parts is moved to low cost manufacturing facilities, commencing in 2019.
Average gross margin over the period would need to reduce to 21%, without any mitigating action on overhead costs, before an impairment would be triggered.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by the five year plan Longterm growth rates for the period beyond five years have been restricted to the US GDP rate of 2.0%, significantly lower than industry data for the advanced composites market over this period.
Discount rate applied to future cash flows The Group has used a discount rate of 8.6% in 2018 for its impairment testing.
Were the discount rate to increase to 10.1% an impairment would be triggered.
This is the same rate used for impairment testing in 2017, albeit the rate derived for 2017 reflected the higher US tax rates prevailing at that date.
MTS headroom as a percentage of the carrying value of goodwill is 63%.
No reasonably foreseeable change in key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in a significant impairment charge being recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Meggitt PLC 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2017 Restated Cost 667.1 35.9 Accumulated amortisation 124.1 18.9 Net book amount 543.0 17.0 Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated Opening net book amount 543.0 17.0 Exchange rate adjustments 36.8 1.3 Additions Internal development costs 62.6 Cash payments 2.0 Interest capitalised see note 13 4.4 Impairment loss 55.3 Amortisation 22.1 0.6 Net book amount 495.8 17.1 At 31 December 2017 Restated Cost 683.0 34.6 Accumulated amortisation 187.2 17.5 Net book amount 495.8 17.1 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 495.8 17.1 Exchange rate adjustments 24.1 1.0 Additions Internal development costs 58.6 Cash payments 0.9 Interest capitalised see note 13 3.3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale see note 23 2.6 Amortisation 22.1 0.8 Net book amount 557.1 18.2 At 31 December 2018 Cost 774.9 38.0 Accumulated amortisation 217.8 19.8 Net book amount 557.1 18.2 Charged to net operating costs.
Of the 2017 impairment loss, 54.4m in respect of development costs was charged to exceptional operating items following cancellation of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme see note 11.
The net book amount of development costs includes 246.8m 2017: 205.1m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 13.4 years 2017: 14.7 years.
The programme with the largest capitalised balance is the Airbus A220 previously known as the Bombardier CSeries with a net book amount of 95.8m 2017 restated: 90.0m, comprising development costs of 85.1m 2017: 80.4m and programme participation costs of 10.7m 2017 restated: 9.6m.
Fleet volumes would need to fall to approximately 435 a reduction of more than 50% from management estimates, which are based on public forecasts from industry experts, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, before any impairment would need to be recognised.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 2.0% 2017: 2.0%.
Tax relief claimed on interest capitalised in the year is 0.6m 2017: 0.8m.
Meggitt PLC 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 20.
During 2018, cost and accumulated amortisation relating to completed order backlogs were eliminated.
The net book amount of customer relationships includes 220.2m 2017: 251.2m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, 119.6m 2017: 124.6m in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites, 49.5m 2017: 54.6m in respect of Meggitt Control Systems and 35.5m 2017: 39.0m in respect of Meggitt Sensing Systems, which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of 5.0 years 2017: 6.0 years, 13.3 years 2017: 14.0 years, 7.2 years 2017: 7.0 years and 7.2 years 2017: 8.2 years respectively.
The net book amount of technology includes 44.6m 2017: 50.9m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 35.9m 2017: 39.3m in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of 5.2 years 2017: 6.2 years and 8.2 years 2017: 9.0 years respectively.
Meggitt PLC 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Meggitt PLC 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 22.
Investments The Groups investment in its joint venture, ParkwayHS, LLC is accounted for using the equity method and is stated as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 13.6 14.8 Exchange rate adjustments 0.8 1.3 Share of loss profit after tax 1.5 0.6 Dividends received 0.5 At 31 December 12.9 13.6 Summarised financial information for joint venture The information below reflects amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted to reflect the Groups accounting policies and not the Groups share of those amounts unless otherwise stated.
Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 2017 m m Revenue 16.8 16.5 Operating loss profit 2.0 1.1 Finance costs 0.1 0.1 Loss profit before tax 2.1 1.0 Tax charge 0.1 0.1 Loss profit after tax 2.2 0.9 Total comprehensive expense from continuing operations 2.0 0.3 Summarised balance sheet At 31 December 2018 2018 2017 m m Property, plant and equipment 1.8 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.7 Other current assets 6.1 5.9 Total current assets 6.3 6.6 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 2.5 1.7 Other current liabilities 3.3 2.0 Total current liabilities 5.8 3.7 Net assets 2.3 4.3 Reconciliation of summarised financial information At 31 December 2018 2018 2017 m m Net assets at 1 January 4.3 4.6 Total comprehensive expense 2.0 0.3 Net assets at 31 December 2.3 4.3 Groups interest in joint venture at 70% 1.6 3.0 Goodwill 11.3 10.6 Groups investment at 31 December 12.9 13.6 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Meggitt PLC 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Assets classified as held for sale On 26 March 2018, the Group completed the disposal of Linear Motion LLC, previously classified as a disposal group.
During the year, the Group decided to dispose of the trade and assets of Meggitt France SAS, based in Flac, France and at 31 December 2018, determined that a sale was highly probable.
Accordingly, the related assets have been classified as a disposal group held for sale and are presented separately at the balance sheet date together with directly associated liabilities.
An impairment loss of 6.1m was recognised to reduce the assets to their recoverable value see note 10.
The business is reported within Meggitt Sensing Systems.
Additionally, in 2018 the Group has transferred 14.0m in respect of land and buildings relating to its manufacturing facilities in Coventry, West Midlands, UK to assets classified as held for sale.
An impairment loss of 4.6m was recognised to reduce the assets to their recoverable value see note 11.
These facilities were subject to a sale and leaseback transaction that commenced in the year and completed in January 2019 see note 30.
2018 Assets Liabilities Total classified as directly held for sale associated with assets classified as held for sale m m m At 1 January 2018 9.7 7.8 1.9 Exchange rate adjustments 0.5 0.4 0.1 Change in carrying value of held for sale assets and liabilities up to date of disposal 0.8 4.1 4.9 Business disposed see note 44 10.0 3.3 6.7 Additions 21.1 0.1 21.0 Impairment loss 10.8 0.1 10.7 At 31 December 2018 10.3 10.3 2018 Carrying Allocated Total value before impairment classification as loss held for sale m m m Development costs see note 19 2.6 2.6 Other intangible assets see note 20 0.5 0.5 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 14.6 5.2 9.4 Inventories 2.9 2.0 0.9 Trade and other receivables 0.5 0.5 Assets classified as held for sale 21.1 10.8 10.3 Trade and other payables 0.1 0.1 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 0.1 0.1 24.
Inventories 2018 2017 Restated m m Raw materials and boughtin components 169.5 159.2 Manufacturing work in progress 179.4 163.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 92.3 70.4 Total 441.2 393.4 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales is 1,226.3m 2017 restated: 1,158.7m.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 3.8m 2017: 7.3m in respect of writedowns of inventory to net realisable value of which Nil 2017: 3.6m has been recognised as an exceptional operating item see note 11.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense has been reduced by 3.9m 2017: 2.5m in respect of the reversal of writedowns of inventory to net realisable value made in previous years.
Meggitt PLC 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 25.
Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 Restated m m Trade receivables 344.1 320.2 Prepayments 23.1 18.1 Other receivables 46.4 51.4 Current portion 413.6 389.7 Other receivables 21.5 38.7 Non-current portion 21.5 38.7 Total 435.1 428.4 Other receivables includes 34.1m 2017: 64.1m in respect of amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties principally relating to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group of which 16.6m 2017: 30.1m is shown as current see note 34.
Trade receivables are stated after a provision for impairment of 7.1m 2017: 4.5m.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
2018 2017 m m At 1 January 4.5 6.1 Exchange rate adjustments 0.2 0.4 Businesses disposed 0.2 Charge credit to income statement net operating costs 2.4 1.0 At 31 December 7.1 4.5 At 31 December 2018, trade receivables of 73.3m 2017 restated: 66.6m are past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Up to 3 months overdue 65.6 54.4 Over 3 months overdue 7.7 12.2 Total 73.3 66.6 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 Restated m m Sterling 56.5 56.8 US dollar 340.8 331.2 Euro 23.0 25.3 Other 14.8 15.1 Total 435.1 428.4 26.
Contract assets 2018 2017 m m Conditional rights to consideration on over time contracts 45.1 36.9 Programme participation cash payments 2.8 2.8 Current portion 47.9 39.7 Conditional rights to consideration on over time contracts 34.1 22.9 Programme participation cash payments 27.0 26.8 Non-current portion 61.1 49.7 Total 109.0 89.4 Amortisation of programme participation cash payments of 2.8m 2017: 2.5m has been recognised as a reduction in revenue in the year.
No provision for impairment losses attributable to contract assets was recognised in the year 2017: Nil.
Meggitt PLC 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and on hand 150.5 118.5 Shortterm bank deposits 31.4 Total 181.9 118.5 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
The credit quality of the financial institutions where cash and cash equivalents is held are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Moodys rating: Aaa 0.1 3.2 Aa 131.9 44.0 A 49.9 71.3 Total 181.9 118.5 28.
Trade and other payables 2017 2018 Restated m m Trade payables 195.0 155.0 Social security and other taxes 11.1 10.2 Accrued expenses 70.7 81.8 Other payables 175.7 155.1 Current portion 452.5 402.1 Contingent consideration relating to acquired businesses 4.5 Other payables 1.3 1.0 Non-current portion 1.3 5.5 Total 453.8 407.6 29.
Contract liabilities 2018 2017 m m Contributions received from customers during development phase of programmes 0.4 0.3 Cost per brake landing Power by the hour contracts 23.1 19.6 Other consideration received in advance of performance 24.4 32.6 Current portion 47.9 52.5 Contributions received from customers during development phase of programmes 27.6 13.2 Cost per brake landing Power by the hour contracts 14.8 9.4 Other consideration received in advance of performance 1.5 0.5 Non-current portion 43.9 23.1 Total 91.8 75.6 Revenue recognised in the year relating to amounts recognised as a contract liability at the beginning of the period was 22.2m 2017: 20.9m.
The aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partly satisfied at 31 December 2018, is 236.5m.
The Group has taken the practical expedients available in IFRS 15 not to include amounts relating to contracts which had an expected duration of less than 12 months when received or amounts relating to contracts for which revenue is recognised using a method whereby the value to the customer corresponds to the right to invoice the customer.
Of the 236.5m, the Group expects to recognise 138.1m as revenue during 2019, with the balance recognised in more than one year but not more than 5 years.
Meggitt PLC 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 30.
Lease liabilities The Group leases various factories, warehouses, offices, plant and equipment.
The following amounts are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements in respect of its leases: 2018 2017 m m Depreciation charge for rightofuse assets see note 21 14.4 13.8 Additions to rightofuse assets see note 21 4.6 15.9 Net book amount of rightofuse assets see note 21 79.1 85.1 Interest expense on lease liabilities see note 13 3.7 3.8 Expense related to shortterm leases and lowvalue assets 0.7 0.7 Total cash outflow for leases comprising interest and capital payments 18.0 15.2 Analysis of lease liabilities: Present value of minimum lease payments 2018 2017 Restated m m In one year or less 16.1 16.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 52.3 48.8 In more than five years 29.1 36.4 Present value of lease liabilities 97.5 102.1 Current portion 16.1 16.9 Non-current portion 81.4 85.2 At 31 December 2018, the Group had the following significant lease commitments: A lease relating to its new facility being constructed at Ansty Park, West Midlands, UK see note 11.
The Group expects to recognise this lease in 2019, when it obtains control of the rightofuse asset and to recognise a lease liability and rightofuse asset of approximately 60.0m at that date.
At the date the lease is recognised, the Group expects undiscounted cash flows to be: 9.0m inflow in one year or less: 11.0m outflow in more than one year but not more than five years: and 99.0m outflow in more than five years.
In January 2019, the Group completed a sale and leaseback of its existing manufacturing facilities in Coventry, West Midlands, UK.
Lease liabilities and rightofuse assets of approximately 11.0m will be recognised and the lease terms range from two years for the main manufacturing facilities to 25 years for one of the Groups specialised operations.
An impairment loss of 7.6m has been recognised in 2018 in respect of the carrying value of the facilities and is included within exceptional operating items see note 11.
At the date the leases are recognised, the Group expects undiscounted cash outflows to be: 0.9m in one year or less: 2.4m in more than one year but not more than five years: and 13.4m in more than five years.
Meggitt PLC 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Bank and other borrowings 2018 2017 m m Bank loans 0.4 62.1 Other loans 9.8 9.3 Current portion 10.2 71.4 Bank loans 358.5 254.1 Other loans 789.8 751.7 Non-current portion 1,148.3 1,005.8 Total 1,158.5 1,077.2 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 10.2 71.4 In more than one year but not more than five years 913.5 562.4 In more than five years 234.8 443.4 Total 1,158.5 1,077.2 Analysis of bank and other borrowings: Drawn under committed facilities 1,143.1 995.7 Less unamortised debt issue costs 1.5 2.3 Fair value adjustment to fixed rate borrowings 6.7 12.4 Drawn under uncommitted facilities 61.7 Interest accruals 10.2 9.7 Total 1,158.5 1,077.2 Debt issue costs are amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings.
The Group has the following committed facilities: 2018 2017 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m 2010 Senior notes USD400.0m 313.7 313.7 296.3 296.3 2016 Senior notes USD600.0m 470.5 470.5 444.4 444.4 Syndicated credit facility USD750.0m 358.9 229.1 588.0 255.0 300.5 555.5 Committed facilities 1,143.1 229.1 1,372.2 995.7 300.5 1,296.2 The Group issued USD600.0m of loan notes to private placement investors in 2010.
The notes were in four tranches as follows: USD200.0m carried an interest rate of 4.62% and were repaid in 2017: USD125.0m carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020: USD150.0m carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are also due for repayment in 2020: and USD125.0m carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
The Group issued USD600.0m of loan notes to private placement investors in 2016.
The notes were in two tranches as follows: USD300.0m carry an interest rate of 3.31% and are due for repayment in 2023: and USD300.0m carry an interest rate of 3.60% and are due for repayment in 2026.
In 2014, the Group secured a fiveyear USD900.0m syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2021, following a oneyear extension agreed during 2015 and a further oneyear extension agreed during 2016.
During 2017, the Group reduced the facility to USD750.0m.
At 31 December 2018, the amounts drawn under the facility are 358.9m 2017: 255.0m represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars of 238.1m and in Sterling of 120.8m.
Borrowings under the facility are subject to interest at floating rates which are linked to LIBOR.
Committed facilities expire as follows: 2018 2017 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In more than one year but not more than five years 907.9 229.1 1,137.0 551.3 300.5 851.8 In more than five years 235.2 235.2 444.4 444.4 Committed facilities 1,143.1 229.1 1,372.2 995.7 300.5 1,296.2 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
Meggitt PLC 164 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 31.
Bank and other borrowings continued The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2018 2017 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 10.2 10.2 71.4 71.4 Noncurrent 1,148.3 1,136.5 1,005.8 1,001.9 Total 1,158.5 1,146.7 1,077.2 1,073.3 After taking account of financial derivatives entered into by the Group that alter the interest basis of its financial liabilities, the interest rate exposure on bank and other borrowings is: At 31 December 2018: Fixed rate borrowings Floating Fixed Total Weighted Weighted average average interest period rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years US dollar 262.4 558.7 821.1 Swiss franc 159.7 159.7 Euro 58.4 58.4 Sterling 120.8 120.8 Gross bank and other borrowings 383.2 776.8 1,160.0 2.6 4.0 Less unamortised debt issue costs 0.6 0.9 1.5 Bank and other borrowings 382.6 775.9 1,158.5 At 31 December 2017: Fixed rate borrowings Floating Fixed Total Weighted Weighted average average interest period rate for which rate is fixed m m m % Years US dollar 162.5 645.4 807.9 Swiss franc 152.1 152.1 Euro 57.8 57.8 Sterling 61.7 61.7 Gross bank and other borrowings 224.2 855.3 1,079.5 2.7 4.2 Less unamortised debt issue costs 0.6 1.7 2.3 Bank and other borrowings 223.6 853.6 1,077.2 The weighted average interest rate reflects the relative impact of interest rates based on the principal amounts and the duration of borrowings.
Hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries The Groups bank and other borrowings of 1,158.5m are designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange loss of 66.9m 2017: gain of 101.1m on retranslation of these borrowings is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Meggitt PLC 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Financial instruments At 31 December 2018: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Noncurrent: Trade and other receivables see note 25 21.5 21.5 21.5 Contract assets see note 26 61.1 61.1 61.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 3.4 6.6 10.0 10.0 Current: Trade and other receivables 390.5 390.5 390.5 Contract assets see note 26 47.9 47.9 47.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 9.3 9.3 9.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 27 181.9 181.9 181.9 Financial assets 12.7 6.6 702.9 722.2 722.2 Current: Trade and other payables 441.4 441.4 441.4 Contract liabilities see note 29 47.9 47.9 47.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 18.8 18.8 18.8 Lease liabilities see note 30 16.1 16.1 16.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 10.2 10.2 10.2 Noncurrent: Trade and other payables see note 28 1.3 1.3 1.3 Contract liabilities see note 29 43.9 43.9 43.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 17.4 17.4 17.4 Lease liabilities see note 30 81.4 81.4 81.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 242.7 905.6 1,148.3 1,136.5 Financial liabilities 278.9 1,547.8 1,826.7 1,814.9 Total 266.2 6.6 702.9 1,547.8 1,104.5 1,092.7 At 31 December 2017 Restated : Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Noncurrent: Trade and other receivables see note 25 38.7 38.7 38.7 Contract assets see note 26 49.7 49.7 49.7 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 16.3 12.2 28.5 28.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 371.6 371.6 371.6 Contract assets see note 26 39.7 39.7 39.7 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 3.2 0.4 3.6 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents see note 27 118.5 118.5 118.5 Financial assets 19.5 12.6 618.2 650.3 650.3 Current: Trade and other payables 391.9 391.9 391.9 Contract liabilities see note 29 52.5 52.5 52.5 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 17.3 17.3 17.3 Lease liabilities see note 30 16.9 16.9 16.9 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 71.4 71.4 71.4 Noncurrent: Trade and other payables see note 28 5.5 5.5 5.5 Contract liabilities see note 29 23.1 23.1 23.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 33 14.6 14.6 14.6 Lease liabilities see note 30 85.2 85.2 85.2 Bank and other borrowings see note 31 235.2 770.6 1,005.8 1,001.9 Financial liabilities 267.1 1,417.1 1,684.2 1,680.3 Total 247.6 12.6 618.2 1,417.1 1,033.9 1,030.0 Excludes prepayments of 23.1m 2017: 18.1m see note 25.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 11.1m 2017: 10.2m see note 28.
Meggitt PLC 166 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 32.
Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, contract assets, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, contract liabilities and the current portion of floating rate bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within their book value for credit risk.
The fair values of lease liabilities approximate to their book values due to the measurement of lease liabilities at the Groups incremental borrowing rate, which has not changed significantly since the inception of the lease liabilities presented.
Leases are also negotiated at market rates with independent, unrelated third parties and are subject to periodic rental reviews.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest rates.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and contractual forward rates.
The fair values of cross currency derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date, forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest and forward rates.
The noncurrent portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as it has been determined using significant inputs which are a mixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest rates, with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
The same methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the noncurrent portion of bank and other borrowings which is held at amortised cost, but for which fair values are provided in the table above.
There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy in the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss Cumulative unrealised changes in fair value of the noncurrent portion of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Fair value at 1 January arising from changes in credit risk 1.1 1.0 Gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 2.1 Fair value at 31 December arising from changes in credit risk 0.3 1.1 The difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the noncurrent portion of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Fair value 242.7 235.2 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 7.5 13.0 Contractual amount payable at maturity 235.2 222.2 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit and loss: At 1 January 235.2 344.3 Exchange rate adjustments 13.1 25.3 Settled upon maturity 76.1 Gain recognised in net operating costs see note 10 4.9 8.9 Loss gain recognised in net finance costs 0.1 0.9 Gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 2.1 At 31 December 242.7 235.2 The largest movement in credit spread seen in a six month period since inception of the borrowings is 70 basis points.
A 70 basis point movement in the credit spread used as an input in determining fair value at 31 December 2018, would impact other comprehensive income by approximately 3.6m.
Meggitt PLC 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Derivative financial instruments At 31 December 2018: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 159.8 8.4 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 37.7 229.6 0.9 18.8 Current portion 197.5 229.6 9.3 18.8 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 235.2 6.6 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 58.4 3.6 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 133.0 306.2 3.4 13.8 Non-current portion 368.2 364.6 10.0 17.4 Total 565.7 594.2 19.3 36.2 At 31 December 2017: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 118.5 0.4 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 183.2 5.9 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 92.3 147.2 3.2 11.4 Current portion 210.8 330.4 3.6 17.3 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.2 12.2 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 57.8 6.1 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 233.8 184.1 16.3 8.5 Non-current portion 456.0 241.9 28.5 14.6 Total 666.8 572.3 32.1 31.9 Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Moodys rating: Aa 4.4 11.9 A 14.9 20.2 Total 19.3 32.1 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of the derivative financial instruments.
Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2018 is 235.2m 2017: 340.7m, of which 137.2m will expire in 2020 and 98.0m will expire in 2022.
The contracts are all denominated in US dollars.
The interest rate contracts have the economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they continue to meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges.
Cross currency swaps The cross currency swaps have been used to synthetically convert US dollar denominated floating borrowings into Swiss franc and Euro denominated fixed borrowings to commercially hedge against Swiss franc and Euro denominated assets of foreign subsidiaries.
The cross currency swaps do not qualify to be hedge accounted.
Meggitt PLC 168 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 33.
Derivative financial instruments continued Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are not merited.
Foreign currency forward contracts are analysed as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar Sterling forward sales 2.8 29.1 14.2 17.6 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 1.5 3.5 5.3 2.3 Total 4.3 32.6 19.5 19.9 34.
Provisions Provisions Environmental receivables Environmental Onerous Warranty Other Total contracts costs a a b c d m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 Restated 99.9 21.8 18.9 7.6 148.2 64.1 Exchange rate adjustments 5.0 0.4 0.7 0.2 6.3 2.6 Additional provisions receivables recognised in year 2.5 4.3 9.7 3.1 19.6 2.5 Unused amounts reversed 2.6 4.4 2.6 9.6 Charge credit to net finance costs see notes 13 and 12 respectively 1.7 1.7 0.8 Transfers to trade and other payables 1.6 2.1 3.7 Utilised 28.5 8.6 7.1 1.6 45.8 35.9 At 31 December 2018 80.6 13.7 15.7 6.7 116.7 34.1 2018 2017 Restated m m Current 33.0 65.7 Noncurrent 83.7 82.5 At 31 December 2018 116.7 148.2 Amounts in respect of environmental and other provisions have been recognised in net operating costs.
Amounts in respect of onerous contracts and warranty costs have been recognised in cost of sales.
a. P rovision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation at a number of sites see note 4.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these activities based on information currently available.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next fifteen years and are discounted, where appropriate, using an appropriate discount rate.
A receivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties.
Movements in the receivable are shown in the table above see note 25. b. P rovision has been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next five years and are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
c. P rovision has been made for product warranty claims.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next three years and are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
d. A n umber of asbestos related claims have been made against subsidiary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is a provision, included within other provisions, for certain claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
Meggitt PLC 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Assets Liabilities Net Retirement Other Total Intangible Other Total benefit assets obligations m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 Restated 107.7 113.8 221.5 385.7 42.5 428.2 206.7 Exchange rate adjustments 4.7 4.0 8.7 25.6 3.2 28.8 20.1 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 0.1 0.5 0.6 Business acquired 3.2 3.2 3.2 Businesses disposed 0.9 0.9 1.8 0.4 2.2 1.3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3.3 3.3 3.3 Credit to income statement Impact of reduction in US federal corporate tax rate see note 14 6.9 27.2 34.1 110.3 12.1 122.4 88.3 Credit to income statement Other see note 14 5.9 24.5 30.4 35.3 3.0 38.3 7.9 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 27.1 0.4 26.7 26.7 Charge to equity see note 14 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2017 Restated 63.1 61.3 124.4 216.0 24.3 240.3 115.9 Exchange rate adjustments 1.8 3.5 5.3 11.7 1.4 13.1 7.8 Reclassifications 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 0.7 0.7 2.2 2.2 2.9 Credit to income statement Impact of reduction in US federal corporate tax rate see note 14 4.1 4.1 4.1 Charge to income statement Other see note 14 17.7 34.9 17.2 30.1 2.6 32.7 15.5 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 7.3 0.1 7.2 7.2 Charge to equity see note 14 0.4 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2018 44.0 99.1 143.1 260.4 28.3 288.7 145.6 Includes balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, sharebased payments, finance costs and derivative financial instruments.
Includes balances arising from accelerated tax depreciation and contract assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m Deferred tax assets 16.3 26.3 Deferred tax liabilities 161.9 142.2 Net balance at 31 December 145.6 115.9 Deferred tax liabilities all fall due after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2018 2017 Restated m m To be recovered within one year 11.4 0.3 To be recovered after more than one year 4.9 26.0 Total 16.3 26.3 The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 12.5m 2017: 24.3m for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
No asset has been recognised in respect of these losses, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to a tax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
Meggitt PLC 170 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members.
The UK scheme is a registered scheme and subject to the statutory schemespecific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, including the payment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
It is established under trust and the responsibility for its governance lies with the trustees who also agree funding arrangements with the Group: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With one exception, these schemes are closed to future accrual.
The schemes are a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes.
The funded schemes are taxqualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and are insured by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits.
They are established under, and governed by, the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
Meggitt is a named fiduciary with the authority to manage the operation of the schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The scheme is a tax qualified pension plan subject to the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans which constitutes a legal framework setting out the minimum requirements for occupational pension plans.
Responsibility for its governance lies with a foundation, which is similar in nature to a UK trustee board.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on a members length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are also dependent on salary at retirement, or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides a fixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of a defined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as obligations fall due.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other postretirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, and former employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
These schemes are unfunded and closed to new members.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2018 2017 m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 30.9 29.2 Service cost 15.4 15.9 Past service cost see note 11 1.7 Past service credit 5.4 7.1 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 2.7 4.2 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 6.3 9.4 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 20.7 22.4 Service cost 0.7 0.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.7 1.9 Total charge in respect of healthcare schemes 2.4 2.6 Total charge 54.0 54.2 Of the total charge, 43.3m 2017: 38.7m is included in employee costs see note 9, of which 28.1m 2017: 26.4m has been recognised in cost of sales and 15.2m 2017: 12.3m in net operating costs.
Of the remaining charge, 2.7m 2017: 4.2m has been recognised in net operating costs in respect of scheme administration expenses and 8.0m 2017: 11.3m is recognised in finance costs see note 13.
Meggitt PLC 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The past service cost relates to the impact of the UK High Court ruling on how UK pension schemes should equalise Guaranteed Minimum Pension benefits.
This change, which had not been anticipated in prior year actuarial assumptions, has been treated as an exceptional operating item see note 11.
The past service credit in 2018 relates to the Groups decision to freeze two of the US schemes to future accrual for existing members.
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 2018 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of liabilities 753.5 423.6 47.6 1,224.7 Fair value of assets 669.0 346.6 1,015.6 Retirement benefit obligations 84.5 77.0 47.6 209.1 2017 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of liabilities 814.5 439.1 49.8 1,303.4 Fair value of assets 673.6 321.7 995.3 Retirement benefit obligations 140.9 117.4 49.8 308.1 Of the total deficit of 209.1m 2017: 308.1m, 62.3m 2017: 64.9m is in respect of unfunded schemes.
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2018 2017 Liabilities Assets Total Liabilities Assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 1,303.4 995.3 308.1 1,367.2 952.5 414.7 Exchange rate adjustments 26.4 18.6 7.8 40.0 25.1 14.9 Service cost 16.1 16.1 16.6 16.6 Past service cost 1.7 1.7 Past service credit 5.4 5.4 7.1 7.1 Net interest cost see note 13 33.9 25.9 8.0 36.8 25.5 11.3 Contributions Group 83.7 83.7 50.1 50.1 Contributions Members 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.2 Benefits paid 55.0 55.0 52.1 52.1 Settlements 1.2 1.2 11.4 11.4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Experience gain 14.0 14.0 5.9 5.9 Loss gain from change in demographic assumptions 3.1 3.1 17.9 17.9 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 87.4 87.4 14.0 14.0 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in finance costs 52.1 52.1 56.8 56.8 Total remeasurement gain loss 98.3 52.1 46.2 9.8 56.8 66.6 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 2.7 2.7 4.2 4.2 At 31 December 1,224.7 1,015.6 209.1 1,303.4 995.3 308.1 Meggitt PLC 172 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2018 2017 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 2.90% 4.15% 4.15% 2.55% 3.55% 3.55% Inflation rate 3.20% N A N A 3.20% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.20% N A N A 2.20% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.10% N A N A 3.00% N A N A Salary increases 2.95% N A N A 4.20% 4.43% N A Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the scheme, which include the results of an analysis of members used to support the 2018 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions are based on the RPH2014 headcount weighted table, for schemes where benefits are not salarylinked, and the RP2014 table for other schemes, with both tables projecting rates of mortality to fall using the 2018 Social Security Administrations IntermediateCost Projections scale.
2018 2017 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 23.1-24.9 21.4-22.1 22.8-24.4 21.5-22.1 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 25.6-26.9 23.5-23.7 25.3-27.0 23.5-23.7 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.7-23.5 20.2-20.8 21.6-23.1 20.2-20.8 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 24.1-25.4 22.3-22.6 23.9-25.5 22.3-22.6 Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
Meggitt PLC 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: The impact of a 50 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2018 to increase by approximately 97.0m.
The impact of a 10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2018 to increase by approximately 9.0m.
The impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2018 to increase by approximately 40.0m.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised on the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis are consistent with the previous year.
No change has been considered necessary to any sensitivity levels, given recent past experience.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant of which are detailed below.
The Group has not changed the process used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year unless otherwise stated.
Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset classes such as equities, property, hedge funds, commodities and derivatives where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the longterm nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to outperform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Both the UK and US schemes have purchased equity derivatives which enable the schemes to benefit from equitylike returns, subject to certain caps, whilst providing an element of protection against falls in equity markets.
These derivatives cover approximately 29% of the total equities held by the schemes and have an average remaining life of 1.2 years at 31 December 2018.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets match the expected cash outflows arising from its pension obligations.
For each UK and US funded scheme, there is a glidepath in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in longterm index linked securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
The Group currently does not use derivatives to mitigate this risk.
Inflation risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to the levels of salary inflation, increases in inflation that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in the UK by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over a period of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
In the US, the only scheme open to future accrual provides for a fixed benefit for each year of service.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Meggitt PLC 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 36.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Other information In the UK, at the date of the 2015 triennial valuation the deficit was measured for funding purposes at 249.4m.
The buyout valuation at the same date, which assumed the Group were to transfer responsibility of the scheme to an insurance company, was measured at 544.1m.
The Group has no current plans to make such a transfer.
The Group agreed with the trustees, following this valuation, to make annual deficit reduction payments commencing in 2016 with the aim of eliminating the deficit by March 2024.
Under this agreement, deficit payments in 2019 will be 32.3m and will increase by approximately 5% per annum for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present value of future deficit payments agreed as part of the 2015 actuarial valuation exceeds the scheme accounting deficit at 31 December 2018 by approximately 90.0m however, such amounts would be recoverable by the Group under the scheme rules once the last member has died and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The 2018 triennial valuation is in progress.
Preliminary results indicate that the deficit on a funding basis was approximately 163.0m, an improvement of 34.0m compared to the projected funding deficit at that date based on the 2015 valuation.
The preliminary buyout valuation at the 2018 valuation date was approximately 395.0m.
The 2018 valuation will be finalised in the first half of 2019 and is not currently anticipated to impact the level of deficit contributions payable in 2019, agreed following the 2015 valuation.
In the US, minimum deficit reduction payments are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
In 2018, the Group made an accelerated cash contribution of USD40.0m 30.4m into two of its US schemes.
As a result, and absent any changes in legislation, deficit payments in 2019 are expected to reduce to 4.0m and remain relatively stable at this level over the following four years.
Thereafter, annual payments are expected to increase to approximately 11.0m per annum for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present value of deficit payments due under legislation does not exceed the schemes deficits at 31 December 2018 and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The Swiss scheme has a surplus on a funding basis of approximately 11.0m and no additional minimum funding liability arises.
Estimated total Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2019 are 49.3m.
The weighted average duration of the UK schemes defined benefit obligation is 18.6 years.
The weighted average duration of the overseas schemes defined benefit obligations is 11.3 years.
The expected maturity of undiscounted pension and healthcare benefits at 31 December 2018 is as follows: Pension Healthcare Total schemes schemes m m m Benefit payments expected to be made in 2019 46.8 3.6 50.4 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2020 48.0 3.6 51.6 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2021 to 2023 152.9 10.5 163.4 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2024 to 2028 274.3 15.4 289.7 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2029 to 2033 283.5 12.4 295.9 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2034 to 2038 268.8 9.8 278.6 Benefit payments expected to be made in 2039 to 2043 244.0 7.5 251.5 Benefit payments expected to be made from 2044 onwards 702.1 13.7 715.8 Total 2,020.4 76.5 2,096.9 37.
Share capital Issued share capital Ordinary Nominal Net shares of value consideration 5p each Number m m m Allotted and fully paid: At 1 January 2017 775.7 38.8 Issued on exercise of Sharesave awards 0.7 At 31 December 2017 776.4 38.8 Issued on exercise of Sharesave awards 0.5 At 31 December 2018 776.9 38.8 Meggitt PLC 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Share-based payment The Group operates a number of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recognised in net operating costs in respect of such schemes is 13.5m 2017: 8.0m see note 9 and is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Meggitt LongTerm Incentive Plan 2014 Equity settled 12.5 5.8 Meggitt LongTerm Incentive Plan 2014 Cash settled 0.5 0.5 Deferred Share Bonus Plan Equity settled 0.3 0.7 Sharesave Plans Equity settled 0.3 0.5 Other 0.1 0.5 Total 13.5 8.0 Meggitt Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014: Equity settled Under this plan, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, if any, that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 33% of the award : A return on trading assets ROTA measure 33% of the award : and A strategic goals measure 33% of the award.
Each of the conditions is measured over a threeyear performance period.
An employee is generally entitled to a payment at the end of the vesting period, equivalent to dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period, on any shares that vest.
The fair value of the award made in 2018 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant, which was 429.60 pence 2017: 442.10 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 15.2 13.7 Awarded 5.7 6.1 Exercised 0.6 0.5 Lapsed 3.6 4.1 At 31 December 16.7 15.2 At 31 December 2018, 0.1m of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Own shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to acquire shares to be used to satisfy share options and awards under the employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 92 to 114.
At 31 December 2018, the trust holds 5.6m ordinary shares 2017: 4.2m ordinary shares of which 5.0m are unallocated 2017: 3.8m, being retained by the trust for future use.
The balance is held for employees in a vested share account to satisfy particular awards which have fully vested.
All shares, whether or not allocated, are held for the benefit of employees.
The shares held at 31 December 2018 were purchased during 2017 and 2018 at a cost of 26.7m.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2018 is 26.2m 2017: 20.1m representing 0.72% of the issued share capital of the Company 2017: 0.54%.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2018 2017 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 0.6 2.8 Property, plant and equipment 14.3 18.8 Total 14.9 21.6 Meggitt PLC 176 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 40.
Contractual commitments continued Other financial commitments The Group enters into longterm arrangements with aircraft and original equipment manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents a significant longterm financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of a number of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over a period which can extend over 35 years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
Programme costs comprise programme participation costs and the supply of initial manufactured parts FOC on a free of charge or deeply discounted basis to OEMs in connection with their selection of the Groups products for installation onto new aircraft, where the Group has obtained principal supplier status.
Programme participation costs are accounted for as described in note 2, FOC costs are expensed as incurred.
Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual commitments to incur development costs and programme costs at 31 December 2018, are shown in the table below.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property and other leases, and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Cash inflow from operations 2018 2017 Restated m m Profit for the year 179.0 292.8 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 1.0 1.4 Finance costs see note 13 41.5 45.8 Tax see note 14 37.1 64.5 Depreciation see note 21 53.6 53.9 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 132.2 130.9 Impairment loss see notes 19 and 21 3.6 57.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.0 0.8 Loss on disposal of software and other intangible assets 0.3 Gain on disposal of businesses see note 10 30.4 40.3 Impairment of assets classified as held for sale see note 23 10.7 14.2 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration payable see note 10 3.6 Financial instruments see note 10 10.1 60.7 Share of loss profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 1.5 0.6 Dividend income from joint venture see note 22 0.5 Change in carrying value of held for sale assets and liabilities up to date of disposal 2.0 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 67.6 33.5 Sharebased payment expense see note 38 13.5 8.0 Changes in working capital: Inventories 33.5 11.6 Trade and other receivables 17.2 7.9 Contract assets 18.0 10.5 Trade and other payables 30.0 26.0 Contract liabilities 9.0 11.8 Provisions 37.7 27.8 Cash inflow from operations 348.2 399.3 Meggitt PLC 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42.
Cash inflow from operations continued The Board uses free cash flow to monitor and measure the underlying trading cash performance of the Group.
It is reconciled to cash from operating activities below: 2018 2017 Restated m m Cash inflow from operating activities 295.3 337.9 Add back cash outflow from business acquisition and disposal expenses 3.8 3.9 Capitalised development costs 58.6 62.6 Capitalised programme participation costs 0.8 3.4 Purchase of intangible assets 21.8 18.3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 52.6 62.0 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.1 1.9 Free cash inflow 167.4 197.4 43.
Movements in net debt 2018 2017 Restated m m At 1 January 1,060.8 1,278.8 Cash inflow from operating activities 295.3 337.9 Cash outflow from investing activities 96.0 80.1 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 124.2 118.6 Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes 22.6 19.0 Net cash generated 52.5 120.2 Debt acquired with business 0.6 Debt disposed with businesses 0.8 Lease liabilities entered see note 21 4.6 15.9 Exchange rate adjustments 65.5 105.0 Other noncash movements 4.3 8.5 At 31 December 1,074.1 1,060.8 Bank and Bank and Lease Lease Total Cash and Net other other liabilities: liabilities: debt cash debt borrowings: borrowings: Current Non-current equivalents Current Non-current m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 Restated 175.7 1,170.6 17.8 88.5 1,452.6 173.8 1,278.8 Exchange rate adjustments 12.7 88.4 1.0 7.7 109.8 4.8 105.0 Business acquired 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.1 Businesses disposed 0.1 0.7 0.8 3.2 2.4 Cash flows from financing activities 88.1 71.2 11.4 170.7 47.8 122.9 Other movements 4.0 4.5 11.5 4.4 7.4 7.4 At 31 December 2017 Restated 71.4 1,005.8 16.9 85.2 1,179.3 118.5 1,060.8 Exchange rate adjustments 5.1 61.8 0.7 4.4 72.0 6.5 65.5 Businesses disposed see note 44 0.7 0.7 Cash flows from financing activities 66.8 85.5 14.3 4.4 57.6 53.2 Other movements 0.5 4.8 12.8 8.2 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2018 10.2 1,148.3 16.1 81.4 1,256.0 181.9 1,074.1 Cash flows relating to bank and other borrowings are disclosed in the cash flow statement as proceeds from borrowings of 85.5m 2017: 64.9m and repayments of borrowings of 66.8m 2017: 224.2m.
Meggitt PLC 178 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 44. Business disposals On 12 January 2018, the Group disposed of 100% of the equity in Aviation Mobility, LLC Aviation Mobility for a consideration of USD14.0m.
Aviation Mobility was previously reported within Meggitt Control Systems.
On 14th November 2017, the Group agreed to the disposal of 100% of the equity of Linear Motion LLC Linear Motion subject to certain regulatory clearances being obtained.
The related assets were classified as a disposal group held for sale and were presented separately at 31 December 2017 together with directly associated liabilities.
The disposal subsequently completed on 26 March 2018 for a consideration of USD4.2m.
Linear Motion was previously reported within the Meggitt Equipment Group.
On 21 April 2018, the Group disposed of 100% of the ordinary shares of Precision Micro Limited Precision Micro for a consideration of 21.9m.
The company specialised in production photo etching for the automotive and medical sectors, where synergies with the rest of the Group were limited.
Precision Micro was previously reported within the Meggitt Equipment Group.
On 24 December 2018, the Group disposed of a small number of product lines from within one of its sensing systems businesses for a consideration of USD10.0m.
These product lines were reported within Meggitt Sensing Systems.
The businesses disposed were not a major line of business or geographical area of operation of the Group.
The net assets of the businesses at the date of disposal were as follows: Aviation Linear Precision Sensing Total Mobility Motion Micro product lines m m m m m Goodwill see note 18 0.8 0.8 Other intangible assets see note 20 0.1 0.1 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 3.5 3.5 Inventories 1.1 0.8 1.9 Trade and other receivables current 0.3 3.4 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents see note 43 0.7 0.7 Assets classified as held for sale see note 23 10.0 10.0 Trade and other payables current 1.9 1.9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale see note 23 3.3 3.3 Net assets 0.3 6.7 7.7 0.8 15.5 Currency translation gain transferred from equity 3.0 Business disposal expenses 2.5 Deferred consideration receivable 7.9 Difference between fair value of consideration and amounts received 1.8 Gain on disposal see note 10 27.9 Total consideration received in cash 36.8 Cash inflow arising on disposal: Total consideration received in cash 36.8 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of see note 43 0.7 Less: cash paid in respect of businesses disposed in prior periods 0.4 Businesses disposed 35.7 Less: business disposal expenses paid 3.8 Total cash inflow 31.9 Meggitt PLC 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 45.
Restatement of prior year comparatives This note explains the impact on the consolidated financial statements of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 9 Financial instruments which became effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2018 and of IFRS 16 Leases which the Group has early adopted.
As a result of changes required to the Groups accounting policies arising from adoption of these standards, prior period comparatives have been restated.
In addition, in 2018 the Group finalised the fair values of assets and liabilities of Elite Aerospace, Inc. Elite which was acquired on 28 March 2017.
IFRS 3 requires fair value adjustments to be recorded with effect from the date of acquisition and consequently has resulted in a restatement of previously reported results.
The following tables show the impact of these changes on each line item affected.
Line items which are not impacted by the restatement have been aggregated within the relevant subtotals.
The impact of each new standard is also explained in more detail within the footnotes that follow the tables.
Consolidated income statement extract 2017 IFRS 15 IFRS 16 IFRS 9 Elite 2017 As previously Restated reported m m m m m m Revenue 2,027.3 32.9 1,994.4 Cost of sales 1,234.0 1.2 1,235.2 Gross profit 793.3 34.1 759.2 Net operating costs 489.1 0.2 0.7 2.1 486.5 Operating profit 304.2 34.3 0.7 2.1 272.7 Net finance costs 41.8 2.6 44.4 Profit before tax 262.4 34.3 1.9 2.1 228.3 Tax credit charge 87.6 21.2 0.2 0.4 1.3 64.5 Profit for the year 350.0 55.5 2.1 1.7 1.3 292.8 Earnings per share: Basic pence 45.2 7.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 37.8 Diluted pence 44.3 7.0 0.2 0.2 0.2 37.1 Non-GAAP measures: Underlying operating profit 388.4 35.8 0.7 353.3 Underlying profit before tax 357.9 35.8 1.9 320.2 Underlying basic earnings per share pence 35.3 3.2 0.1 32.0 Underlying diluted earnings per share pence 34.6 3.2 0.1 31.3 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income extract 2017 IFRS 15 IFRS 16 IFRS 9 Elite 2017 As previously Restated reported m m m m m m Profit for the year 350.0 55.5 2.1 1.7 1.3 292.8 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods: Currency translation movements 161.6 13.7 0.4 147.5 Movements in fair value of financial liabilities arising from 2.1 2.1 changes in credit risk Cash flow hedge movements 0.2 0.2 Tax effect 2.8 0.4 2.4 164.6 13.7 0.4 1.7 152.2 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods 39.5 39.5 Other comprehensive expense income 125.1 13.7 0.4 1.7 112.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 224.9 41.8 1.7 1.3 180.1 Meggitt PLC 180 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 45.
Restatement of prior year comparatives continued Consolidated balance sheets extracts 1 January IFRS 15 IFRS 16 IFRS 9 Elite 1 January 2017 2017 As previously Restated reported m m m m m m Net assets 2,456.4 196.5 3.6 2,256.3 Equity Hedging and translation reserves 551.5 0.8 552.3 Retained earnings 630.6 196.5 3.6 0.8 429.7 Other equity 1,274.3 1,274.3 Total equity 2,456.4 196.5 3.6 2,256.3 31 December IFRS 15 IFRS 16 IFRS 9 Elite 31 December 2017 2017 As previously Restated reported m m m m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 1,947.0 2.1 1,944.9 Development costs 482.3 13.5 495.8 Programme participation costs 332.1 315.0 17.1 Property, plant and equipment 322.9 83.3 406.2 Trade and other receivables 39.2 0.5 38.7 Contract assets 49.7 49.7 Deferred tax assets 11.5 14.7 0.1 26.3 Other noncurrent assets 714.2 714.2 3,849.2 237.6 83.4 2.1 3,692.9 Current assets Inventories 404.1 10.7 393.4 Trade and other receivables 437.1 47.4 389.7 Contract assets 39.7 39.7 Other current assets 136.1 136.1 977.3 18.4 958.9 Total assets 4,826.5 256.0 83.4 2.1 4,651.8 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 445.5 37.6 5.8 402.1 Contract liabilities 52.5 52.5 Lease liabilities 0.1 16.8 16.9 Provisions 64.2 1.5 65.7 Other current liabilities 136.1 136.1 645.9 14.9 11.0 1.5 673.3 Net current assets 331.4 33.3 11.0 1.5 285.6 Non-current liabilities Contract liabilities 23.1 23.1 Deferred tax liabilities 201.7 55.7 1.5 2.3 142.2 Lease liabilities 6.0 79.2 85.2 Other noncurrent liabilities 1,416.5 1,416.5 1,624.2 32.6 77.7 2.3 1,667.0 Total liabilities 2,270.1 17.7 88.7 0.8 2,340.3 Net assets 2,556.4 238.3 5.3 1.3 2,311.5 Equity Hedging and translation reserves 386.9 13.7 0.4 0.9 400.1 Retained earnings 892.8 252.0 5.7 0.9 1.3 634.7 Other equity 1,276.7 1,276.7 Total equity 2,556.4 238.3 5.3 1.3 2,311.5 Meggitt PLC 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 45.
Restatement of prior year comparatives continued Impact of IFRS 15 In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the standard has been adopted retrospectively with restatements made to prior year comparatives.
A summary of the principal areas of IFRS 15 that have impacted the Group are show in the tables below and footnotes that follow: Programme Programme Customer Other Reclassifications 2017 participation participation funding on Impact costs costs development programmes a b c d e m m m m m m Revenue 2.5 30.4 32.9 21.4 2.5 17.7 1.2 Cost of sales Gross loss 21.4 12.7 34.1 0.2 0.2 Net operating costs Operating loss 21.4 12.9 34.3 21.2 Tax charge 55.5 Loss for the year Other Reclassifications 1 January Programme Programme Customer 2017 participation participation funding on development Impact costs costs programmes c d e a b m m m m m m Net assets 188.3 8.2 196.5 Programme Programme Customer Other Reclassifications 31 December participation participation funding on 2017 costs costs development Impact programmes a b c d e m m m m m m Development costs 13.5 13.5 Programme participation costs 285.4 29.6 315.0 Trade and other receivables noncurrent 8.9 9.4 0.5 Contract assets noncurrent 26.8 6.5 29.4 49.7 Deferred tax assets 14.7 14.7 Inventories 4.5 15.2 10.7 Trade and other receivables current 16.6 30.8 47.4 Contract assets current 2.8 7.8 29.1 39.7 Trade and other payables current 17.5 55.1 37.6 Contract liabilities current 0.3 6.0 58.2 52.5 Contract liabilities noncurrent 13.2 9.9 23.1 Deferred tax liabilities 50.8 4.9 55.7 Net Assets 219.9 18.4 238.3 a Programme participation costs Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to OEMs in connection with their selection of the Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group has obtained principal supplier status.
Where these incentives comprise the supply of initial manufactured parts on a free of charge or deeply discounted basis, amounts are recognised within costs of sales as incurred.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, amounts were recognised as an intangible asset and amortised over their useful lives to cost of sales over periods typically up to 15 years.
b Programme participation costs Cash payments Where programme participation costs are in the form of cash payments, the treatment depends on the contractual relationship between the Group and the third party to whom the payment is made.
Where the payment is made to a third party under a revenue contract as defined by IFRS 15, or the award of future IFRS 15 revenue contracts on the programme from the same party is highly probable, payments are recognised as a contract asset and amortised, as a deduction from revenue, over the periods expected to benefit from those contracts.
This situation most frequently arises where the payment is made to the same party to whom original equipment and or aftermarket parts are sold.
Other payments are recognised as an intangible asset and amortised as a charge to cost of sales.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, all programme participation cash payments were recognised as intangible assets and amortised as a charge to cost of sales.
Meggitt PLC 182 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 45.
Restatement of prior year comparatives continued Impact of IFRS 15 continued c Customer funding towards development costs Where a customer contributes to the Groups development costs and those costs meet the criteria under IAS 38 to be recognised as an intangible asset, the funding is recognised as a contract liability and is amortised, as an increase to revenue, over the periods expected to benefit from future revenue from the customer over the life of the programme.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, customer funding was netted off amounts recognised as development costs and accordingly reduced the subsequent amortisation charged to net operating costs.
d Other A number of other revenue timing differences, none of which is individually significant, arose from the adoption of IFRS 15: i.
Revenue recognised over time The Group recognises revenue under power by the hour and cost per brake landing type contracts over time using costs incurred as the measure of contract completion.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, revenue was recognised based on the number of aircraft flying hours or the number of aircraft landings.
Where the Group builds a product with no alternative use and has an enforceable right to payment from the customer for costs incurred, plus a reasonable margin, throughout the life of the contract then revenue is recognised over time using costs incurred as the measure of contract completion.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, the majority of contracts that met this requirement were accounted for in a similar way using contract accounting, although the method of measuring progress has, in some cases, changed.
For instance, funded research and development contracts were previously recognised as revenue over time using customer agreed milestones achieved as a measure of contract completion.
Additionally a small number of contracts for which contract accounting was previously applied no longer meet the IFRS 15 criteria to be recognised over time, particularly certain contracts in the Heatric business, and are now recognised at a point in time, usually when the goods are delivered to the customer.
Conversely, certain defence contracts for which revenue was previously recognised as goods were delivered to the customer meet the IFRS 15 over time criteria and accordingly revenue is recognised as costs are incurred.
Revenue recognised at a point in time The timing of revenue on the substantial majority of the Groups contracts, previously recognised at a point in time, has not been significantly affected by IFRS 15, with revenue continuing to be recognised as goods are delivered to the customer and at the price agreed with the customer for those goods.
A minority of contracts required changes to the timing of revenue recognition to reflect IFRS 15 guidance on areas such as whether multiple deliveries and services provided to a customer should be accounted for individually or as a single performance obligation, variable consideration and material rights.
e Reclassifications Certain balances representing amounts recoverable on contracts, previously included within trade and other receivables and deferred income and advance payments received from customers, previously included within trade and other payables, have been reclassified to contract assets and contract liabilities as appropriate.
Impact of IFRS 16 The Group has early adopted IFRS 16 using the full retrospective approach on transition.
Under IFRS 16, except for certain short term leases and leases of lowvalue assets, a liability is recognised at lease inception equal to the present value of payments due under the lease.
The lease liability is subsequently measured using the effective interest rate method, with interest charged to finance costs.
At lease inception, a rightofuse asset is recognised equal to the lease liability, adjusted to reflect any lease incentives paid to or received from the lessor, asset restoration and other direct costs.
The rightofuse asset is depreciated over the shorter of the life of the asset or the lease term to either costs of sales or net operating costs as appropriate.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, the majority of the Groups leases were accounted for as operating leases with rentals charged to cost of sales or net operating costs on a straightline basis over the lease term, with no element of the rentals charged to finance costs.
No rightofuse asset or lease liability was recognised on the Groups balance sheet for these leases.
Impact of IFRS 9 Under IFRS 9, where financial liabilities are subsequently measured at fair value, any element of the fair value gain or loss arising that is attributable to changes in credit risk is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Under the Groups previous accounting policy, such amounts were recognised within net operating costs.
Overall, IFRS 9 does not have a significant impact since the majority of the Groups financial assets continue to be held at amortised cost.
The Group is also not exposed to a significant concentration of credit risk, as outlined in note 3, and accordingly the impact of applying an expected credit loss model to its financial assets was not significant.
Meggitt PLC 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 46.
Related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings at 31 December 2018 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, undertakings listed below are registered at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset BH23 6EW, United Kingdom, and have a single class of ordinary share with 100% of the equity owned by the Group.
No subsidiary undertakings have been excluded from the consolidation.
6 Meggitt Simi Valley, Inc. USA Subsidiaries directly owned Subsidiaries indirectly owned 1955 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 2 ABL Systems USA Avica Limited Meggitt Tarrant Limited 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Dunlop Aerospace Limited 8 Meggitt Troy, Inc. USA AeroTech Composites fide Mexico, S. fide R. L. fide 3 3 Industrial Drive, Troy, Indiana 47588 Integrated Target Services Limited C. V. Mexico Carretera 54 a Zacatecas 5690, Parque Industrial Meggitt UK Limited KDG Holdings Limited Amistad Sur Saltillo, Coahuila 25070 8 Meggitt Vietnam Co. Limited Vietnam Meggitt Pamphill Limited Aircraft Braking Systems Europe Limited No 7, 16A Road, Industrial Zone 2 of Bienhoa, Dongnai Meggitt Wimborne Limited Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls Co Aircraft Braking Systems Services Limited 9 4 Limited China Meggitt Engineering Limited Alston Properties LLC USA No.
230 South 5 Gaoqi Road, Xiamen Area of China 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 Meggitt International Holdings Limited Fujian Pilot Free Trade Zone 361006 Artus SAS France Meggitt Pension Trust Limited Meggitt A S Denmark Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, 49240 Avrill Porthusvej 4, 3490 Kvistgaard Negretti & Zambra Limited Atlantic House Pension Trustee Limited 10 5 Meggitt Acquisition Erlanger, Inc. USA BAJ Coatings Limited Negretti Limited 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 1 Bells Engineering Limited Phoenix Travel Dorset Limited Meggitt Acquisition France SAS France Bestobell Aviation Products Limited Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, 49240 Avrill The Microsystems Group Limited Bestobell Engineering Products Limited Meggitt Acquisition Limited Bestobell Insulation Limited Meggitt Advanced Composites Limited Bestobell Meterflow Limited Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Bestobell Mobrey Limited Singapore 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Seletar Aerospace Park, Bestobell Service Co Limited Singapore 797552 Bestobell Sparling Limited Meggitt Aerospace Holdings Limited Cavehurst Finance Ireland Unlimited Company Meggitt Aerospace Limited Republic of Ireland Gorse Valley, Tipperkevin, Ballymore Eustace, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation 6 Co Kildare USA 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Cavehurst Limited Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Kentucky Dunlop Aerospace Group Limited 6 Corporation USA Dunlop Aerospace Holdings Limited 190 Corporate Drive, Danville, Kentucky 40422 Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Investments Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Queretaro, Limited 3 S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Limited Carretera Estatal 200 , KM 22 547 Interior A, Parque Aeroespacial, Queretaro, Dunlop Holdings Limited CP 76278 Dunlop Limited Meggitt Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore Endevco U. K. Limited 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Seletar Aerospace Park, Endevco Vertriebs GmbH Germany Singapore 797552 Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Main Meggitt Brasil Solucoes fide Engenharia Ltda.
6 Erlanger Acquisition Corporation USA 9 Brazil 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Avenida Joo Cabral fide Mello Neto, No.
850, Suites 815 and 816, Barra da Tijuca, CEP 22.775057, City and Europeenne fide Conception dEtudes State of Rio fide Janeiro Technologiques SAS France 6 8 Chemin fide lEtang, BP 15, F16730 FLEAC Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. USA 9801 Muirlands Boulevard, Irvine, California 92618 Evershed & Vignoles Limited 4 Meggitt Filtration & Transfer Limited GB Aero Engine LLC USA 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Finance Beta 7 Heatric Limited Meggitt Finance Limited King Tool International Limited Meggitt Finance S. a. r. l Luxembourg 6 20 Rue des Peupliers, L2328 Meggitt Baltimore Inc. USA 3310 Carlins Park Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 21215 Meggitt GmbH Germany Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Meggitt Canford Limited Meggitt Holdings France SNC France Meggitt Colehill Limited Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, 49240 Avrill 4 Meggitt Erlanger, LLC USA 6 Meggitt Holdings USA Inc. USA 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt France SAS France 11 Meggitt India Pvt Limited India 10 rue Mercoeur, 75011 Paris 901, Brigade Rbix, No.
HMT Main Road, HMT Meggitt Hurn Limited Township, North Bangalore Karnataka 560022 Meggitt Korea Limited Meggitt International Limited 6 Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. USA Meggitt Investments Limited 12838 Saticoy Street, North Hollywood, 6 MeggittOregon, Inc. USA California 91605 2010 Lafayette Avenue, McMinnville, Oregon 97128 6 Meggitt Orange County, Inc. USA Meggitt Properties PLC 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 4 Meggitt Queretaro LLC USA Meggitt Overseas Limited 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 6 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. USA Meggitt SA Switzerland 669 Goodyear Street, Rockmart, Georgia 30153 Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH1701 Fribourg 6 Meggitt San Diego, Inc. USA 6 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. USA 6650 Top Gun Street, San Diego, California 92121 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Sensorex SAS France 196 rue Louis Rustin, Archamps Technopole, 74160 Archamps Meggitt Shapwick Limited Meggitt PLC 184 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Meggitt Training Systems Quebec Inc. Wallaby Grip B.
A. E. Pty Limited in liquidation Equity accounted investments 6 14 Canada Australia Meggitt UTC Aerospace Systems, LLC USA 6140 Henri Bourassa West, SaintLaurent, Quebec, Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018 H4R 3A6 Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 ParkwayHamilton Sundstrand Mexico S. 15 Meggitt Training Systems Australia Pty Limited Wallaby Grip Industries Australia Pty Limited fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Australia in liquidation Australia Carretera 54 a Zacatecas 5690, Parque Industrial Unit 2, 48 Conrad Place, Lavington, New South Wales Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Amistad Sur Saltillo, Coahuila 25070 2641 Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 16 Valley Association Corporation USA Meggitt Training Systems Europe BV Wallaby Grip Limited 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 The Netherlands Whittaker Aerospace Ringweistraat 7, 4181CL Waardenburg 6 Whittaker Corporation USA 6 Private company limited by Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. USA 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 296 Brogdon Road, Suwanee, Georgia 30024 6 guarantee without share capital Whittaker Development Co. USA Meggitt Training Systems Limited Meggitt Pension Plan Trustees Limited 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 6 Meggitt Training Systems Pte Limited Whittaker Ordnance, Inc. USA Singapore 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Seletar Aerospace Park, 6 Whittaker Technical Products, Inc. USA Registered charity Singapore 797552 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Evershed & Ayrton Fund 6 MeggittUSA Services, Inc. USA Zambra Legal Pty Limited Australia 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Suite 2, Level 11, 60 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, 6 MeggittUSA, Inc. USA New South Wales 2000 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 13 Miller Insulation & Engineering Limited 6 NASCO Aircraft Brake, Inc. USA 13300 Estrella Avenue, Gardena, California 90248 4 OECO, LLC USA 4607 SE International Way, Milwaukie, Oregon 97222 6 Pacific Scientific Company USA 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 6 Park Chemical Company USA 1955 Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Piher International Limited 6 Precision Engine Controls Corporation USA 11661 Sorrento Valley Road, San Diego, California 92121 6 Securaplane Technologies, Inc. USA 12350 N. Vistoso Park Road, Oro Valley, Arizona 85755 Serck Aviation Limited Target Technology Petrel Limited TFE Techniques et Fabrications Electroniques SAS France Rue Jean Perrin Zone Industrielle Actisud Le Capitre, 31100 Toulouse Triscan Limited VibroMeter Limited VibroMeter S. a. r. l Switzerland Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH1701 Fribourg Wallaby Grip NSW Pty Limited in liquidation Notes Australia Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell 1 Ownership held as ordinary B shares 50%.
Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 2 Ownership held as ordinary shares 50%.
Wallaby Grip Australia Pty Limited in 3 Ownership held as quota interest 100%.
liquidation Australia Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell 4 Ownership held as membership interest 100%.
Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 5 Ownership held as deferred shares 55.55% and ordinary shares 44.45%.
6 Ownership held as common stock 100%.
7 Ownership held as ordinary A shares 60% and ordinary B shares 40%.
8 Ownership held as owners capital.
9 Ownership held as registered capital 100%.
10 Ownership held as class A shares 67.5%, class B shares 12.5% and class C shares 20%.
11 Ownership held as equity shares 100%.
12 Ownership held as registered shares 100%.
13 Registered at 125 West Regent Street, Glasgow, Lanarkshire, G2 2SA, Scotland.
14 Joint venture with Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation ownership held as membership interest 70%.
15 Subsidiary of ParkwayHS, LLC ownership held as quota interest 99.97%.
16 Ownership held as ordinary shares 33.33%.
Meggitt PLC 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
