STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW savings, using our Group scale and international footprint.
the recent addition of the Abu Dhabi business which I believe, Mediclinics ICT function unlocked meaningful synergies over time, will emulate the success of our Dubai business.
through standardising the systems deployed across the I am fortunate to have worked with some of the industrys Group.
In future, this will generate lower ICT maintenance leading professionals and an experienced team of senior cost and simplify the task of ensuring we adhere to stringent executives.
Across the Group, we have built a strong data protection legislation.
management team with a wealth of experience, functioning in a well-embedded value-based culture.
I am privileged Although clinical models differ from country to country, the to have worked in various roles during my career.
It is an basic principles are similar.
Therefore, we actively promote honour for me to have been part of a team that established collaboration and the transfer of knowledge within the Group corporate structures, processes and systems that are to ensure we embrace best practice and deliver clinical standing the test of time.
I am proud of the diverse team of excellence.
As they did last year, colleagues from Hirslanden highly skilled and experienced people in Mediclinic, who has are collaborating with the Middle East team as they design the capacity and tenacity to take the Company forward as our second cancer centre at the Mediclinic Airport Road a respected international healthcare services group to the Hospital in Abu Dhabi.
Mediclinics international reputation long-term benefit of all the stakeholders.
supports our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled people, which is key to the Group delivering on its long-term WHY DO YOU BELIEVE MEDICLINIC growth strategy.
IS WELL-POSITIONED FOR FUTURE As part of the Groups strategic financial framework, investment hurdle rate requirements ensure rigorous capital SUCCESS?
This informs our decisionAs mentioned, the demand for quality healthcare services making regarding ongoing investment in the maintenance is continuously growing on an international basis driven and upgrade of our facilities, in addition to selective by a variety of factors such as an ageing population, new organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
The substantial technology, growing middle class and consumerism.
We ownership of our property portfolio also allows the Group acknowledge that affordability of healthcare needs to be to secure long-term financing at competitive rates.
This factored in to ensure long-term sustainability of the industry.
was demonstrated in Switzerland, with the refinancing of However, as one of the largest independent pan-EMEA Hirslandens secured debt in October 2017.
The new facility healthcare services groups, Mediclinic is well-positioned to was expanded by up to CHF0.45bn, and the cost of debt deliver long-term value to its shareholders through a wellreduced by 25 basis points.
The maturity profile extended balanced, diversified portfolio of operations, with a leading to at least 2023.
Efficiently allocating capital across an position across attractive healthcare markets: a relentless international business and appropriately managing the cost focus on patient safety and excellent clinical performance: of debt will provide opportunities to improve returns, thus and attractive growth opportunities.
generating long-term value for shareholders.
Stepping down as CEO after eight years in the role, I depart as an executive director from a Group that is established WHAT ARE YOUR PROUDEST as an industry-leading healthcare services provider, with ACHIEVEMENTS DURING YOUR TIME international best practice and processes in place, and a AT MEDICLINIC?
great depth in the management capacity which will support the growth of the business going forward.
Most importantly, I have been with Mediclinic for more than 30 years, and I there is a positive and collaborative culture across the Group am proud to have been part of a team that grew the Group that forms the principal framework for how we provide from a single South African hospital under construction in services to our patients.
I know that Ronnie, who will take 1985 to one of the largest independent pan-EMEA healthcare over from me in June 2018, will be supported by the broader services groups.
Our first venture outside Southern Africa senior management team and will lead the Group to further was the investment in Dubai.
We acquired a minority interest success to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
I wish them in a relatively small business with one hospital.
Craig Tingle, every success in the future and look forward to continuing to our former Group CFO, and I were sent to Dubai as the initial support the Group in my new role as a non-executive director.
Mediclinic team to manage the investment.
Despite the uncertainty of operating in a new market, we overcame a number of challenges and grew the modest initial investment to create a market-leading healthcare services business in Dubai.
In Dubai, we now have eight clinics, with two further additions following the Majid Al Futtaim acquisition in Danie Meintjes May 2018, and there will soon be three hospitals with the Chief Executive Officer opening of the new Mediclinic Parkview Hospital later in 2018.
The opportunity to further grow in that region is supported by 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23
