STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER 2.
Impairment of the Groups associate investment in Spire AR refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 123 and note 8 in the Group financial statements At 31 March 2018, the carrying value of the We reviewed the share price performance of Spire over Groups associate investment in Spire exceeded the period since acquisition alongside its reported financial the listed market value of the investment, which results.
We met with the Groups nominated director on could indicate a possible impairment.
The Group the Spire board to understand whether any indicators of assessed the recoverable amount of the investment impairment exist based on the underlying performance of based on a value-in-use calculation and concluded the business and to understand Spires recent performance that an impairment loss of 109m was required.
We reviewed the latest available financial reports published by Spire.
We obtained and reviewed analyst reports We focused on this area because of the to understand third party expectations of future share price significance of the impairment loss recorded performance.
in the current year and reflecting on the extent of judgement and estimation involved Deploying our valuation experts, we obtained managements in the impairment assessment undertaken by impairment assessment and tested the reasonableness of management.
The recoverable value of the key assumptions underpinning managements value-in-use associate is contingent on future cash flows valuation of the Groups investment, including cash flow and there is a risk that the investment will be forecasts and the selection of growth rates and discount impaired further if these cash flows do not rates.
We challenged management to substantiate its meet expectations.
assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to third party data and economic forecasts.
We evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions on the level of impairment required.
Based on our work performed, we concurred with management that an impairment is required in the current year.
We have found the judgements and estimates made by management in determining the impairment charge to be materially reasonable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole and the related disclosures to be appropriate.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 165 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER 3.
Purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Linde AR refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 123 and note 29 in the Group financial statements The Group acquired 99.62% of Linde for a total We obtained the purchase price allocation prepared by consideration of 86m.
Based on discussions with management, in the recognition at fair value of total net assets reading the purchase agreements and leveraging our amounting to 83m and goodwill of 3m.
Net understanding of the business and industry, we critically assets assumed at fair value consisted mainly of assessed the process followed for the identification of the property, equipment and vehicles 109m and assets and liabilities acquired.
a brand name 17m identified as part of the We obtained the third party valuations supporting the value purchase price allocation.
Management performed of the buildings acquired and assessed the competence, the purchase price allocation with the assistance capabilities and objectivity of the external valuation expert of an external expert.
used by management to value the buildings.
We have focused on this area because judgement With the assistance of our own valuation experts, we and estimates are involved in allocating the evaluated the valuation methodology adopted by purchase price to the tangible and intangible management to value the brand acquired.
The underlying assets identified in the business combination and assumptions, including the discount rate, terminal growth because the valuation of intangible assets requires rate and royalty relief rate used in managements model specialist skills and knowledge.
to value the brand were tested for reasonableness by benchmarking the assumptions to industry average rates and by independently recalculating the discount rate.
We evaluated the commercial rationale for the low residual goodwill valuation.
We performed specified procedures on the opening balance sheet of Linde prepared at 30 June 2017 directed at cut-off.
We have specifically considered the recoverability of assets and the completeness of liabilities including provisions for contractual commitments and for legal and other contingencies to ensure that the opening balance sheet is appropriately stated at fair value.
We have reviewed the assessment of the respective accounting policies and practices of Mediclinic and Linde prepared by management to ensure that the Groups accounting policies have been appropriately applied.
Based on our work performed, we have found the judgements and estimates made by management to be materially reasonable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole and the related disclosures to be appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, its accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of thirteen reporting units which include sub-consolidations of the operations in each of the Groups key markets.
The Southern Africa, Switzerland and Middle East reporting units required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
An audit was also performed over the complete financial information of the Mediclinic International plc parent company to give appropriate audit coverage.
Taken together, reporting units where we performed audit work over the complete financial information accounted for 92% of consolidated revenue, 83% of consolidated loss before tax and 94% of adjusted profit before tax calculated on an absolute basis.
