Financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Melrose Industries PLC the Company is a public company limited by shares.
The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
Thenature of the Groups operations and its principal activities by operating segment are set out in note 5 and in the Divisional reviews onpages 20 to 39.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised in accordance with aresolution of the Directors of Melrose Industries PLC on 7 March 2019.
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company is based.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
On 19 April 2018 the Group acquired approximately 85% of the issued share capital and obtained control of GKN plc GKN for consideration of 7,091 million note 12.
The remaining 15% of the issued share capital of GKN was acquired in the period from 19April 2018 to 30 June 2018, at a cost of 1,260 million which has been treated as a purchase of a non-controlling interest.
1.1 New Standards and Interpretations affecting amounts, presentation or disclosure reported in the current year In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations.
Their adoption has not had a significant impact on the comparative amounts reported in these Financial Statements: IFRS 9: Financial Instruments IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the related clarifications Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-Based Payment Transactions Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2014 16 cycle Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses IFRIC 22: Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration Amendments to IAS 28: Investments in associates and joint ventures The Group adopted IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 using the full retrospective approach.
Due to the immaterial impact of IFRS 15 on the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017, no further disclosure is provided on the comparative results or balance sheet position.
The GKN IFRS 15 impact forms part of the acquired business and therefore is not included in the transitional impact within these Financial Statements.
The impact of IFRS 15 on the enlarged Group reduced annual revenue by approximately 80 million, due to the reclassification of certain costs.
There was a 15 million increase in operating profit, which principally relates to recognition of variable consideration.
The Group adopted IFRS 9: Financial Instruments on 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and the main impacts relate to: a classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, b impairment of financial assets, and c hedge accounting.
The Group has elected not to restate the comparatives but instead record any adjustments identified in retained earnings in line with the transition arrangement within the standard.
Following managements review, a 2 million reduction in net assets was identified.
The GKN IFRS 9 impact forms part of the acquired business and therefore is not included in the transitional impact within these Financial Statements.
The Group has reviewed the classification of its financial instruments and has concluded the following: There is no change in the classification of derivative financial instruments that were classified as fair value through profit or loss, as under IFRS 9 they fail the contractual cash flow characteristics test in IFRS 9 4.1.
2A b : Financial instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationships under IAS 39 continue to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9: and Financial assets previously classified within the loans and receivables category are classified in the amortised cost category.
The introduction of IFRS 9 has resulted in changes to the accounting policies in the following areas: Trade and other receivables: Derivative financial instruments: Amounts due from equity accounted investments: and Contract assets.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 131 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 1.
Corporate information continued 1.2 New Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At 31 December 2018, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not been adopted by the EU : IFRS 16: Leases Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over income tax treatments Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the above Standards and Interpretations, with the exception of IFRS 16, will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
IFRS 16 is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including IAS 17: Leases and related interpretations.
It will require all leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 only requires arrangements categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet, with other arrangements categorised as operating leases not recognised on the Balance Sheet but expensed through the Income Statement instead.
The impact of IFRS 16 will be to recognise a lease liability and a corresponding asset in the Balance Sheet for leases currently classified as operating leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets.
There will also be a specific reclassification from operating costs to finance costs.
IFRS 16 will be adopted for the year ending 31 December 2019 via a modified retrospective approach and it is anticipated that the right-of-use asset recognised on transition will be measured at an amount materially equal to the lease liability.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 710 million note 27.
A preliminary assessment has been undertaken involving all businesses.
This entailed a review of all arrangements to identify those affected by IFRS 16.
Future cash flow obligations have been collated for each identified lease and the associated lease liability has been assessed.
For arrangements that meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16, the Group will recognise a right-of-use asset and corresponding liability unless they qualify as low value or short-term leases as defined by IFRS 16.
The right-of-use asset and lease liability to be recognised upon transition is expected to be in the range of 550 million to 600 million.
The expected annual impact of IFRS 16 on the Income Statement in the year ended 31December 2019 will be an increase to operating profit, expected to be in the range of 10 million to 15 million.
This is expected to be more than offset by an increase in finance costs in the range of 15 million to 20 million.
For arrangements previously classified as finance leases, where the Group is a lessee, as the Group has already recognised an asset and a related finance lease liability for the lease arrangement, the Directors do not anticipate that the application of IFRS 16 will have asignificant impact on the amounts recognised in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements, at 31 December 2018.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are recognised at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
Following the acquisition of GKN on 19 April 2018, where relevant the Group has applied certain accounting policies to align them with the enlarged business.
Alternative Performance Measures The Group presents Alternative Performance Measures APMs in addition to the statutory results of the Group.
These are presented inaccordance with the Guidelines on APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
APMs used by the Group are set out in the glossary to these Financial Statements on pages 193 to 196 and the reconciling items between statutory and adjusted results are listed below and described in more detail in note 6.
Adjusted revenue includes the Groups share of revenue from equity accounted investments.
Adjusted profit loss excludes items which are significant in size or volatility or by nature are non-trading or non-recurring, and any item released to the Income Statement that was previously a fair value item booked on an acquisition.
132 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued On this basis, the following are the principal items included within adjusting items impacting operating profit: Amortisation of intangible assets that are acquired in a business combination, excluding computer software and development costs: Significant restructuring costs and other associated costs, including losses incurred following the announcement of closure for identified businesses, arising from significant strategy changes that are not considered by the Group to be part of the normal operating costs of the business: Acquisition and disposal costs: Impairment charges that are considered to be significant in nature and or value to the trading performance of the business: Movement in derivative financial instruments not designated in hedging relationships, including revaluation of associated financial assets and liabilities: Reversal of inventory uplift in value recorded on acquisition: Removal of adjusting items, interest and tax on equity accounted investments to reflect operating results: The charge for the Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme, including its associated employers tax charge: One-off costs associated with gender equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions GMP for occupational schemes: and The release of fair value items booked on acquisitions.
Further to the adjusting items above, adjusting items impacting profit before tax include: Acceleration of unamortised debt issue costs written off as a consequence of Group refinancing: and The fair value changes on cross-currency swaps, entered into by GKN prior to acquisition, relating to cost of hedging which are not deferred in equity.
In addition to the items above, adjusting items impacting profit after tax include: Net effect of significant new tax legislation changes: and The tax effects of adjustments to profit loss before tax.
The Board considers the adjusted results to be an important measure used to monitor how the businesses are performing as this provides a meaningful reflection of how the businesses are managed and measured on a day-to-day basis and achieves consistency and comparability between reporting periods, when all businesses are held for a complete reporting period.
The adjusted measures are used to partly determine the variable element of remuneration of senior management throughout the Group and are also in alignment with performance measures used by certain external stakeholders.
The adjusted measures are also taken into account when valuing individual businesses as part of the Buy, Improve, Sell Group strategy model.
Adjusted profit is not a defined term under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
All APMs relate to the current year results and comparative periods where provided.
Basis of consolidation The Groups Financial Statements include the results of the parent undertaking and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
In addition, the Groups share of the results and equity of joint ventures and associated undertakings together equity accounted investments are included.
The results of businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective date of acquisition and, for those sold during the period, to the effective date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained on page 48 of the Finance Directors review.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 133 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the fair value of assets transferred, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange of control and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except those where specific guidance is provided by IFRSs.
Non-current assets and directly attributable liabilities that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Also, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12: Income taxes, liabilities and assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits and liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payments awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired isrecognised as goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts where appropriate.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum period of one year.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes incircumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating units acquired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Equity accounted investments A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but where the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a business over which the Group exercises joint control with its partners over the financial and operating policies.
In all cases voting rights are 50% or lower.
Associated undertakings are entities that are neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, but where the Group has a significant influence.
The results, assets and liabilities of equity accounted investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising on acquisition.
When a group entity transacts with an equity accounted investment of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the equity accounted investments are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements only to the extent of interests in equity accounted investments that are not related to the Group.
Revenue Revenues are recognised either at the point of transfer of control of goods and services, or recognised over time on an activity basis using the costs incurred as the measure of the activity.
Costs are recognised as they are incurred.
The nature of agreements into which the Group enters means that certain of the Groups arrangements with its customers have multiple elements that can include any combination of: Sale of products and services: Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs : Design and build: and Construction contracts.
Contracts are reviewed to identify each performance obligation relating to a distinct good or service and the associated consideration.
The Group allocates revenue to multiple element arrangements based on the identified performance obligations within the contracts in line with the policies below.
A performance obligation is identified if the customer can benefit from the good or service on its own or together with other readily available resources, and it can be separately identified within the contract.
This review is performed by reference to the specific contract terms.
134 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Sale of products and services This revenue stream accounts for the majority of Group sales.
Contracts in the Automotive, Powder Metallurgy, Nortek Air & Security and Other Industrial segments operate almost exclusively on this basis, and it also covers a high proportion of the Aerospace segments revenues.
Invoices for goods are raised and revenue is recognised when control of the goods is transferred to the customer.
Dependent upon contractual terms this may be at the point of despatch, acceptance by the customer or, in Aerospace, certification by the customer.
The revenue recognised is the transaction price as it is the observable selling price per product.
Cash discounts, volume rebates and other customer incentive programmes are based on certain percentages agreed with the Groups customers, which are typically earned by the customer over an annual period.
These are allocated to performance obligations and are recorded as a reduction in revenue at the point of sale based on the estimated future outcome.
Due to the nature of these arrangements an estimate is made based on historical results to date, estimated future results across the contract period and the contractual provisions of the customer agreement.
Many businesses in the Powder Metallurgy and Automotive segments recognise an element of revenue via a surcharge or similar raw material cost recovery mechanism.
The surcharge is generally based on prior period movement in raw material price indices applied to current period deliveries.
Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs This revenue stream affects a small number of businesses, exclusively in the Aerospace segment.
Revenue is recognised under RRSPs for both the sale of product as detailed above and sales of services, which are recognised by reference to the stage of completion based on the performance obligations in the contract.
In most RRSP contracts, there are two separate phases where the Group earns revenue: sale of products principally to engine manufacturers and aftermarket support.
The assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract and the performance obligations within it.
The value of revenue is based on the standalone selling price for each element of the contract.
Revenue is recognised at the point control passes to the customer.
For products and services, this has been identified as the point of despatch, acceptance by the customer or certification by the customer.
Where the amount of revenue recognised is not yet due for collection under the terms of the contract, it will be recognised as variable consideration within contract assets.
Revenue is not recognised where recovery is not probable due to potential significant reversals in the future.
This can be affected by assessment of future volumes including aftermarket expectations which are impacted by technology development, fuel price and competition.
Participation fees are payments made to engine manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers relating to RRSPs and long-term agreements.
They are recognised as contract assets to the extent they can be recovered from future sales.
Where participation fees have been paid under the RRSP, the amortisation is recognised as a revenue reduction under IFRS 15, as performance obligations aresatisfied.
Design and build This revenue stream affects a discrete number of businesses, primarily in the Aerospace segment but also on a smaller scale in the Automotive segment.
Generally, revenue is only recognised on the sale of product as detailed above, however, on occasions cash is received in advance of work performed to compensate the Group for costs incurred in design and development activities.
The Group performs an assessment of its performance obligations to understand multiple elements.
Where it is determined there is only one type of performance obligation, being the delivery of product, any cash advance is factored into the revenue allocated across the deliveries required under the contract.
Where the performance obligation has not been satisfied amounts received are recognised as a contract liability.
If there is more than one performance obligation, revenue is allocated to each one based on a standalone selling price for each element of the contract.
Due to the nature of design and build contracts, there can be significant learning curves while the Group optimises its production processes.
During the early phase of these contracts, all costs including any start-up losses are taken directly to the Income Statement, as they do not meet the criteria for fulfilment costs.
Construction contracts Where multiple performance obligations are identified, revenue is recognised as each performance obligation is met.
This requires an assessment of total revenue to identify the allocation across the performance obligations, based on the standalone selling price for eachobligation.
In cases where one of the following criteria is met, revenue is recognised over time: The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Groups performance: The Groups performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced: or The Groups performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Group and it has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 135 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Due to the nature of the criteria above, only certain contracts in the Group qualify for over time recognition.
On this basis revenue is recognised using the input method, which uses costs incurred and the assessed margin across the contract.
The input method is used to measure progress as it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
The margin and associated revenue are calculated based on the estimated transaction price and expected total costs, with considerations made for the associated contract risks.
If the above criteria are not met, revenue is recognised at a point in time when control transfers to the customer which, in line with the sale of goods and services above, is the point of delivery or customer acceptance dependent on the terms of the contract.
Variable consideration, such as price or scope amendments, is included based on the expected value or most likely amount.
A constraint is included unless it is highly probable that the revenue will not significantly reverse in the future.
This constraint is calculated based on a cautious expectation of the life of certain RRSPs and by assessing the impact of a 10% reduction in expected spares sales.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts based on an estimate of the expected value the Group expects to receive.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is virtually certain that the customer will accept the claim.
Finance income Finance income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can bemeasured reliably.
Finance income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rateapplicable.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Issue costs of loans The finance cost recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the issue costs of borrowings is allocated to periods over the terms ofthe instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation, and any borrowing costs on qualifying assets.
Qualifying assets are defined as an asset or programme where the period of capitalisation is more than 12 months.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, they are classified as capital work-in-progress.
Transfers are made to other asset categories when they are available for use, at which point depreciation commences.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Short leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3-15 years The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment, or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists an impairment test is performed and, where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds or costs and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Income Statement in the period that the item isderecognised.
136 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identifiable intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Access to the use of brands and intellectual property are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present value of future additional cash flows arising from the use of the intangible asset.
Customer relationships and contracts are valued on the basis of the net present value of the future additional cash flows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
Technology assets are valued using a replacement cost approach, or a relief from royalty method.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recorded in administration expenses in the Income Statement and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the asset as follows: Customer relationships and contracts 20 years or less Brands and intellectual property 20 years or less Technology 20 years or less Computer software 5 years or less Development costs 20 years or less Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment, its costs are capitalised and categorised as intangible assets.
Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets other than computer software and development costs are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects are capitalised when there is a technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources and a potential market or development possibility in the undertaking that are recognisable: and where it is the intention to produce, market or execute the project.
A correlation must also exist between the costs incurred and future benefits and those costs can be measured reliably.
Capitalised costs are expensed on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of 20 years or less.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are measured using a first in, first out or weighted average cost basis.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provisions are made for obsolescence or other expected losses where necessary.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term deposits which are readily convertible to cash and are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Government refundable advances Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other payables in the Balance Sheet.
Refundable advances include amounts advanced by a government, accrued interest and directly attributable costs.
Refundable advances are provided to the Group to part-finance expenditures on specific development programmes.
The advances are provided on a risk sharing basis, i. e. repayment levels are determined subject to the success of the related programme.
Balances are held at amortised cost and interest is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 137 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Financial instruments assets Classification and measurement All financial assets are classified as either those which are measured at fair value, through profit or loss or Other Comprehensive Income, and those measured at amortised cost.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value.
For those which are not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss, this includes directly attributable transaction costs.
Trade and other receivables, contract assets and amounts due from equity accounted investments are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Recognition and derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Impairment of financial assets For trade and other receivables, contract assets and amounts due from equity accounted investments, the simplified approach permitted under IFRS 9 is applied.
The simplified approach requires that at the point of initial recognition the expected credit loss across the life of the receivable must be recognised.
As these balances do not contain a significant financing element, the simplified approach relating to expected lifetime losses is applicable under IFRS 9.
Cash and cash equivalents are also subject to impairment requirements.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The carrying amount of other receivables is reduced by the impairment loss directly and a charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
For trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced by the expected lifetime losses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account and changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables that are assessed not to be impaired individually are also assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting receipts, an increase in the number of delayed receipts in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Financial instruments liabilities Financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant periods.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity risks, arising from operating and financing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 24 of the Financial Statements.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value in the Groups Balance Sheet.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative meets the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives do meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than one year from the period end date are classified as current in the BalanceSheet.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised at their fair value in the Groups Balance Sheet when the nature, characteristics and risks of the derivative are not closely related to the host contract.
Gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each balance sheet date are recognised in the Income Statement.
138 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents that the hedge will be highly effective, which is when the hedging relationships meet all of the following hedge effectiveness requirements: there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument: the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship: and the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting only when the hedging relationship or a part thereof ceases to meet the qualifying criteria after rebalancing, if applicable.
This includes instances when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised.
Thediscontinuation is accounted for prospectively.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash flow.
The Group designates the full change in the fair value of a foreign exchange forward contract i. e. including the forward elements as the hedging instrument for all of its hedging relationships involving foreign exchange forward contracts.
The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement or when the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a nonfinancial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement ofthe cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the derivative at a reporting period end is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The Group designates only the spot rate component of cross-currency swaps in net investment hedges.
The changes in the fair value ofthe aligned forward and currency basis elements are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the cost of hedging reserve.
If the hedged item is transaction-related, the time value is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
If the hedged item is time-period related, then the amount accumulated in the cost of hedging reserve is reclassified to profit or loss on a rational basis.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of or when the hedge is no longer expected to occur.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
At the end of subsequent reporting periods, such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with IAS 37: Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amount of revenue recognised in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 139 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Pensions and other retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans, some of which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
For the defined benefit pension and retirement benefit plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Any assets resulting from this calculation are limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The service cost of providing pension and other retirement benefits to employees for the period is charged to the Income Statement.
Net interest expense on net defined benefit obligations is determined by applying discount rates used to measure defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year to net defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year.
The net interest expense is recognised within finance costs.
Remeasurement gains and losses comprise actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest.
Remeasurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in full in the Statement ofComprehensive Income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently recycled.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan obligations and actual experience during the period or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan obligations.
For defined contribution plans, contributions payable are charged to the Income Statement as an operating expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
Foreign currencies The individual Financial Statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In preparing the Financial Statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the related operation is disposed of.
Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised but they are not reclassified to the Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Taxation The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period and represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A tax provision is recognised for those matters for which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
The provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amount expected to become payable.
The assessment is based on the judgement of tax professionals within the Company supported by previous experience in respect of such activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent advice.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases ofassets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
140 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in equity accounted investments can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in equity accounted investments, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the relevant balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and not in the Income Statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of the equity instrument excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Non-current assets and businesses held for sale Non-current assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 141 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
There are critical judgements to disclose within the scope of paragraph 122 of IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements, as well as those involving estimations.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
a Assumptions used to determine the carrying amount of goodwill and other assets The carrying value of goodwill in the Group at 31 December 2018 was 4,052 million 2017: 1,432 million.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the Directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Brush group of CGUs During the year ended 31 December 2018, an impairment charge of 123 million has been recorded in respect of the goodwill held in the Brush group of CGUs.
At 31 December 2018, goodwill in the Brush group of CGUs had a carrying value of nil, and therefore there is no further estimation uncertainty in this balance.
Total remaining assets at 31 December 2018 are 103 million.
Should the business experience further unforeseen deterioration of results a future impairment may be required for these assets.
Further details and sensitivity disclosure is included in note 11.
Security & Smart Technology and Ergotron groups of CGUs The determination of the recoverable amount, including goodwill, in respect of the Security & Smart Technology and Ergotron groups ofCGUs involved management estimation of the impact of highly uncertain matters, particularly with respect to the possible increase in tariffs in the US for goods being imported from China: the level of competition and technological change in the market: the timing and quantity of forecast unit sales: long-term growth rates and discount factors.
The carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets not including computer software and development costs at the balance sheet date was 505 million 31 December 2017: 470 million for Security & Smart Technology.
The carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets not including computer software and development costs at the balance sheet date was 606 million 31 December 2017: 589 million for Ergotron.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Group recognised no impairment loss in respect of these assets.
Further information including a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, is provided in note 11. b Valuation of warranty liabilities The warranty related costs provision in the Financial Statements at 31 December 2018 was 387 million 2017: 73 million, as shown innote 20.
The increase in the year was predominantly from the acquisition of GKN and the 295 million provision recorded at the acquisition date.
To quantify the fair value of the warranty provision estimates have been made based on historical failure rates, volumes and cost of rectification based on the most up to date information available.
As investigations into warranty claims continue, methods and costs of rectification could change materially, giving a variety of ranges of possible outcomes, which could result in a change in the provision.
The warranty terms of the Group are, on average, between one and five years, and at 31 December 2018 is equivalent to 1% of the previous three years total revenue.
If the percentage were to increase or decrease by 0.1 percentage points the provision would move by 29 million.
c Assumptions used to determine the carrying amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations The Groups pension plans are significant in size.
The defined benefit obligations in respect of the plans are discounted at rates set by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
Significant estimation is required when setting the criteria for bonds to be included in the population from which the yield curve is derived.
The most significant criteria considered for the selection of bonds to include are the issue size of the corporate bonds, quality of the bonds and the identification of outliers which are excluded.
In addition, assumptions are made in determining mortality rates to be used when valuing the plans defined benefit obligations.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups retirement benefit obligation was a deficit of 1,413 million 31 December 2017: 18 million.
Further details of the assumptions applied and a sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to determine the defined benefit obligations of the Groups pension plans are shown in note 23.
142 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued d Loss-making contracts On acquisition of GKN, loss-making contract provisions were recorded, which represented the forecast unavoidable costs required to meet the obligations of long-term agreements, in excess of the contractual inflow expected to be generated in respect of these agreements.
In assessing the unavoidable costs, management has considered the possibility that future actions could impact the profitability of the contracts.
Calculation of the liability includes estimations of volumes, price and costs to be incurred over the life of the contract, which are discounted to a current value.
Future changes within these estimates could have a material impact on the provision in future periods.
At 31 December 2018, the carrying value of the loss-making contract provision in the Group was 616 million 2017: 3 million.
If the margin of these contracts were to improve by one percentage point, the impact on the loss-making contract provision would be 49 million.
e Inventory provisioning The calculation of inventory provisions requires judgement by management of the expected value of future sales.
If the carrying value of inventory is higher than the expected recoverable value, the Group makes provisions writing inventory down to its net recoverable value.
The inventory is initially assessed for impairment by comparing inventory levels to recent utilisation rates and carrying values to historical selling prices.
A detailed review is completed for inventory lines identified in the initial assessment considering sales activity, order flow, customer contracts and current selling price.
At 31 December 2018, there were provisions of 358 million 31 December 2017: 33 million against gross inventory of 1,847 million 31December 2017: 309 million.
A one percentage point increase in the proportion of gross inventory provided would increase the provision by 18 million.
See note 15 for an analysis of inventory.
f IFRS 15 Estimates of future revenues and costs of long-term contractual arrangements During the financial year, the Group has adopted IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS 15 required contracts to be reviewed to identify each performance obligation and the associated consideration.
Whilst the impact on the Group was immaterial at 1January 2018, following the acquisition of GKN on 19 April 2018, the Group now has a number of large, complex contracts where significant judgements and estimates are required in order to identify the performance obligations, the associated consideration and the timing of revenue recognition.
A key judgement is the timing of revenue recognition and the associated quantum of variable consideration, in particular relating to risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs.
A detailed review has been performed of the Groups RRSP contracts where terms and conditions result in variable consideration.
The estimated revenue and costs in respect of these contracts are inherently imprecise and significant estimates are required to assess the pattern of future maintenance activity and the costs to be incurred and escalation of revenue and costs.
The estimates take account of the inherent uncertainties, constraining the expected level of revenue as appropriate.
Whilst the acquisition of GKN has impacted the Group during the year, due to the maturity profile of certain RRSP contract judgements, beyond initial adoption, IFRS 15 could have a far greater impact in future periods.
Key Judgement Allocation of goodwill on acquisition of GKN The purchase consideration on acquisition of GKN has been allocated to each of the group of CGUs monitored for impairment purposes.
Judgement is applied in the basis of allocation which has been completed on an income approach using the proportion of the forecast discounted cash flows of each of the group of CGUs as a percentage of the total as calculated by an external advisor.
A validation of the allocation was completed based on market multiples.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as defined by IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Revenue recognised at a point in time 7,602 2,087 Revenue recognised over time 1,003 5 Revenue 8,605 2,092 The Group has approximately 9 billion in respect of contractual transaction prices including a constrained estimate of variable consideration, on four engine programmes, out of a wider population of such programmes, which has been allocated to contracted performance obligations not satisfied at 31 December 2018.
These performance obligations will be satisfied and revenue will be recognised over a period of up to 30 years.
As permitted under the transitional provisions in IFRS 15, the comparable amount for the year ended 31 December 2017 is not disclosed.
As a practical expedient, performance obligations within a contract that had an original expectation of less than one year in duration have been excluded.
There was no revenue recognised in the current reporting period that related to performance obligations satisfied by the Group in the prioryear.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 143 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 5.
Segment information Segment information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8: Operating Segments which requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reported to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which has been deemed to be the Groups Board, in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Groups reportable operating segments were reconsidered following the acquisition of GKN in April 2018.
The Group now reports under a revised segment structure and comparative results have been restated accordingly.
The operating segments are as follows: Aerospace comprises GKNs aerospace operations: a multi-technology tier one supplier of air frame and engine structures, including Aerostructures, Engine Systems and Special Technologies.
Automotive comprises GKNs Driveline, All-Wheel Drive and eDrive together ePowertrain, and Cylinder Liners businesses: a global technology and systems engineer which designs, develops, manufactures and integrates an extensive range of driveline technologies.
Powder Metallurgy a global leader in the manufacture of precision powder metal parts for the automotive and industrial sectors, aswell as the production of powder metal.
Nortek Air & Security comprises the Groups Air Management and Security & Smart Technology businesses, previously reported as separate segments.
The Air Management and Security & Smart Technology segments have been aggregated based on commonality of economic characteristics, including manufacturing footprint.
Air Management includes the Air Quality & Home Solutions business AQH and the Global Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning business HVAC.
AQH is a leading manufacturer of ventilation products for the professional remodelling and replacement markets, residential new construction market and DIY market.
Global HVAC manufactures and sells split-system and packaged air conditioners, heat pumps, furnaces, air handlers and parts for the residential replacement and new construction markets along with custom designed and engineered products and systems for non-residential applications.
Security & Smart Technology manufactures and distributes products designed to provide convenience and security primarily for residential applications and audio-visual equipment for the residential audio video and professional video market.
Other Industrial comprises the Groups Ergotron and Brush businesses, previously reported separately as the Ergonomics and Energy segments respectively, as well as GKNs Wheels & Structures and the Walterscheid Powertrain Group formerly Off-Highway Powertrain businesses.
Further details are provided in the Divisional review.
In addition, there are central cost centres which are also reported to the Board.
The central corporate cost centres contain the Melrose Group head office costs, the remaining GKN central costs and charges related to the divisional management long-term incentive plans.
Prior year comparatives have been restated following the change in the Groups segment structure.
Reportable segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those which can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups non-current assets and, for revenue, the location of external customers.
Inter-segment sales are not material and have not been disclosed.
The following tables present the results and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments and central cost centres for the year ended 31 December 2018. a Segment revenues The Group derives its revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time.
The Group has assessed that the disaggregation of revenue recognised from contracts with customers by operating segments is appropriate as this is the information regularly reviewed by the CODM in evaluating financial performance.
The Group also believes that presenting this disaggregation of revenue based on the timing of transfer of goods or services provides useful information as to the nature and timing of revenue from contracts with customers.
Year ended 31 December 2018 Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Total Continuing operations m m m m m m Adjusted revenue 2,521 3,382 851 1,458 890 9,102 Equity accounted investments 42 446 5 4 497 Revenue 2,479 2,936 846 1,458 886 8,605 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 1,483 2,936 846 1,458 879 7,602 Over time 996 7 1,003 Revenue 2,479 2,936 846 1,458 886 8,605 Year ended 31 December 2017 restated Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Total Continuing operations m m m m m m Adjusted revenue 1,600 495 2,095 Equity accounted investments 3 3 Revenue 1,600 492 2,092 144 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 5.
Segment information continued b Segment operating profit Year ended 31 December 2018 Powder Nortek Air & 2 Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total Continuing operations m m m m m m m Adjusted operating profit loss 250 231 98 198 98 28 847 Items not included in adjusted operating 1 profit : Amortisation of intangible assets acquired inbusiness combinations 176 103 34 54 34 401 Restructuring costs 56 46 11 22 73 32 240 Acquisition and disposal costs 7 1 145 153 Impairment of assets 17 3 132 152 Movement in derivatives and associated financial assets and liabilities 143 143 Reversal of uplift in value of inventory 50 42 11 18 121 Equity accounted investments adjustments 1 24 25 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme charges 13 13 Impact of GMP equalisation on UK pension schemes 2 1 1 7 11 Release of fair value items 15 4 1 20 Operating loss profit 44 15 38 126 159 368 392 Finance costs 163 Finance income 5 Loss before tax 550 Tax 75 Loss for the year 475 Year ended 31 December 2017 restated Powder Nortek Air & 2 Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total Continuing operations m m m m m m m Adjusted operating profit loss 215 87 23 279 1 Items not included in adjusted operating profit : Impairment of assets 145 145 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 56 26 82 Restructuring costs 27 8 35 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme charges 24 24 Acquisition and disposal costs 6 6 Release of fair value items 5 1 6 Operating profit loss 137 91 53 7 Finance costs 22 Finance income 1 Loss before tax 28 Tax 4 Loss for the year 24 1 Further details on adjusting items are discussed in note 6.
2 Corporate adjusted operating loss of 28 million 2017: 23 million, includes 6 million in respect of remaining GKN central costs 2017: nil and 2 million 2017: 8 million of costs in respect of divisional long-term incentive plans.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 145 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 5.
Segment information continued c Segment total assets and liabilities Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Total assets 7,738 5,675 2,070 2,142 1,494 615 19,734 Total liabilities 3,053 2,320 521 492 499 4,588 11,473 Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total At 31 December 2017 restated m m m m m m m Total assets 2,030 1,047 69 3,146 Total liabilities 484 173 604 1,261 d Segment capital expenditure and depreciation Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m 1 Capital expenditure 105 198 53 44 22 422 1 Depreciation 88 116 37 24 17 282 Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 restated m m m m m m m 1 Capital expenditure 48 4 52 1 Depreciation 23 12 35 1 Including computer software and development costs.
Capital expenditure excludes finance lease additions.
e Geographical information The Group operates in various geographical areas around the world.
The parent companys country of domicile is the UK and the Groups revenues and non-current assets in Europe and North America are also considered to be material.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets: non-current trade and other receivables: and non-current derivative financial assets by geographical location are detailed below: 1 Revenue from external customers Segment assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m m m UK 852 105 2,432 130 Rest of Europe 2,043 124 3,609 109 North America 4,602 1,768 7,241 2,207 Other 1,108 95 1,452 11 Total 8,605 2,092 14,734 2,457 1 Revenue is presented by destination.
146 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 6.
Reconciliation of adjusted profit measures As described in note 2, adjusted profit measures are an alternative performance measure used by the Board to monitor the operating performance of the Group.
a Operating profit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Operating loss 392 7 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations a 401 82 Restructuring costs b 240 35 Acquisition and disposal costs c 153 6 Impairment of assets d 152 145 Movement in derivatives and associated financial assets and liabilities e 143 Reversal of uplift in value of inventory f 121 Equity accounted investments adjustments g 25 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme charges h 13 24 Impact of GMP equalisation on UK pension schemes i 11 Release of fair value items j 20 6 Total adjustments to operating loss 1,239 286 Adjusted operating profit 847 279 a.
The value of intangible assets acquired in business combinations has significantly increased during the year following the acquisition of GKN.
As a result, the amortisation charge in the year was 401 million 2017: 82 million and included eight months ofamortisation of intangible assets acquired with GKN.
This is excluded from adjusted results due to its non-trading nature and to enable comparison with companies that grow organically.
Where intangible assets are trading in nature, such as computer software and development costs, the amortisation is not adjusted.
Restructuring and other associated costs totalled 240 million 2017: 35 million, including 7 million 2017: 1 million of losses incurred following the announcement of the closure of certain businesses within the Group.
Restructuring costs are adjusting items due to their size and non-trading nature and during the year ended 31 December 2018 they included: A c harge of 156 million in respect of the GKN businesses.
Within this, 56 million related to the Aerospace division, predominantly in North America, with key focus on improving quality and delivery for customers.
Within the Automotive business 46 million of costs have been incurred restructuring and enhancing the future performance of the business under new leadership.
In addition, 54 million of restructuring costs were incurred in respect of early actions within other GKN businesses, including the ceasing of GKN head office functions.
A c harge of 59 million 2017: 6 million in respect of the closure of the Dutch turbogenerator facility in Brush and the restructuring of its turbogenerator production in the UK following the announcement on 1 February 2018.
A c harge of 22 million 2017: 27 million within Nortek Air & Security, which mostly related to footprint rationalisation within the HVAC business.
c. Acquisition and disposal costs of 153 million 2017: 6 million were incurred in the year and included general transaction fees and associated transaction taxes, predominantly in respect of the acquisition of GKN.
These costs also included a small amount of fees relating to the 26 million bolt-on acquisition of IntelliVision Inc. by the Security & Smart Technology business and the cost of certain other corporate deal activities in the year.
These items are excluded from adjusted results due to their non-trading nature.
d. An impairment charge totalling 152 million 2017: 145 million was incurred in the year ended 31 December 2018.
This included 132 million in respect of the carrying value of assets held within the Brush business of which 123 million related to goodwill and 9million to property, plant and equipment.
In addition, 15 million of intangible assets and 5 million of property, plant and equipment were impaired in respect of assets held within the GKN businesses.
The impairment charges are shown as an adjusting item due to their non-trading nature and size.
e. Melrose policy is to hedge account where possible, however, hedge accounting has not historically been applied in the GKN businesses for transactional foreign exchange exposure.
For consistency, the movement in the value of derivative financial instruments primarily forward foreign currency exchange contracts entered into to mitigate the potential volatility of future cash flows on long-term foreign currency customer and supplier contracts, along with foreign exchange movements on the associated financial assets and liabilities, totalling a charge of 143 million 2017: nil, is shown as an adjusting item because of its volatility and size.
f. Finished goods and work in progress inventory which are present in a business when acquired, in accordance with IFRS 3, are required to be uplifted in value to closer to their selling price.
As a result, in the early months of an acquisition, reduced profits are generated as this inventory is sold.
The one-off effect in the year, relating to GKN acquired inventory, was a charge of 121 million 2017: nil and is excluded from adjusted results due to its size and non-recurring nature.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 147 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 6.
Reconciliation of adjusted profit measures continued g. The Group has a number of equity accounted investments EAIs in which it does not hold full control, the largest of which is a 50% interest in Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems SDS, within the Automotive business.
The EAIs generated 497million of revenue in 2018, which is not included in the statutory results but is shown within adjusted revenue so as not to distort the operating margins reported in the businesses when the adjusted operating profit earned from these EAIs is included.
In addition, the profits and losses of EAIs, which are shown after amortisation of acquired intangible assets, interest and tax in the statutory results, are adjusted to show adjusted operating profit consistent with the adjusted operating profits of the subsidiaries of the Group.
The revenue and profit of EAIs are adjusted because they are considered to be significant in size and are important in assessing the performance of the business.
h. The charge for the Melrose equity-settled Incentive Scheme, including its associated employers tax charge, of 13 million 2017: 24 million, is excluded from adjusted results due to its volatility.
The shares that would be issued, based on the Schemes current value at the end of the reporting period, are included in the calculation of the adjusted diluted earnings per share, which the Board considers to be a key measure of performance.
On 26 October 2018, a High Court judgement was made in respect of the gender equalisation of guaranteed minimum pensions for occupational pension schemes.
The judgement concluded the schemes should be amended to equalise pension benefits for men and women in relation to guaranteed minimum pension benefits, an issue which affects many UK defined benefit pension schemes.
The impact of this amendment on the pension schemes within the Group resulted in a specific 11 million increase in the pension deficit with a corresponding past service cost in the Income Statement.
This cost is excluded from adjusted results due to its non-trading and non-recurring nature.
Certain items recognised as fair value items on an acquisition totalling 20 million 2017: 6 million, which have been resolved for more favourable amounts than first anticipated, were released as an adjusting item to avoid positively distorting adjusted results.
b Profit before tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Loss before tax 550 28 Adjustments to operating loss per above 1,239 286 Write-off previous debt facility unamortised fees k 7 Fair value changes on cross-currency swaps l 8 Equity accounted investments interest m 1 Total adjustments to loss before tax 1,253 286 Adjusted profit before tax 703 258 k. To enable the acquisition of GKN, a new bank facility was negotiated which replaced the old Group bank facility.
As a result, the amortisation of the remaining 7 million of debt fees relating to the old facility was accelerated and written off in the year.
This charge is shown as an adjusting item because of its one-off, non-trading nature.
l. The fair value changes on cross-currency swaps relating to cost of hedging which are not deferred in equity, are shown as an adjusting item because of its volatility and non-trading nature.
m. As explained in paragraph g above, the profits and losses of EAIs are shown after interest and tax in the statutory results.
They are adjusted to show the profit before tax and the profit after tax, consistent with the subsidiaries of the Group.
c Profit after tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Loss after tax 475 24 Adjustments to loss before tax per above 1,253 286 Equity accounted investments tax m, 8 9 Net effect of new tax legislation in the US n 27 Tax effect of adjustments to loss before tax 8 230 44 Total adjustments to loss after tax 1,014 215 Adjusted profit after tax 539 191 n. The net tax credit arising from US tax legislation enacted in December 2017, including an estimated repatriation charge and changes to closing deferred tax items due to a reduction in the Federal tax rate from 35% to 21%, was included as an adjusting item because of its size and nature.
148 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 7.
Revenues and expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling and distribution costs 240 168 1 Administration expenses 1,871 492 Total net operating expenses 2,111 660 1 Includes 1,093 million 2017: 286 million of adjusting items note 6.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Operating loss is stated after charging crediting : Cost of inventories 6,920 1,439 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations note 11 401 82 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment note 13 252 75 Impairment of goodwill note 11 123 96 Amortisation and impairment of computer software and development costs note 11 59 4 Operating lease expense 68 20 Staff costs 2,192 503 1 Research and development costs 203 63 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 2 Expense of writing down inventory to net realisable value note 15 65 12 Reversals of previous write-downs of inventory note 15 20 3 Impairment recognised on trade receivables 35 5 Impairment reversed on trade receivables 12 5 1 Includes staff costs totalling 161 million 2017: 44 million.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 7 2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the GKN acquisition Balance Sheet 2 Total fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 9 2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other audit services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1 1 Total audit fees 10 3 Audit-related assurance services: Review of the half year interim statement Non-statutory audit of certain of the Companys businesses 1 1 Total audit-related assurance services 1 1 Total audit and audit-related assurance services 11 4 Tax compliance services Other tax advisory services Corporate finance services Total audit and non-audit fees 11 4 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 149 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 7.
Revenues and expenses continued Details of the Companys policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services and how auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 88.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Staff costs during the year including executive Directors Wages and salaries 1,808 434 1 Social security costs 283 52 Pension costs note 23 2 defined benefit plans 21 defined contribution plans 67 7 3 Share based compensation expense note 22 13 10 Total staff costs 2,192 503 1 Includes the employers tax charge on the change in value of the Melrose equity-settled Incentive Scheme, shown as an adjusting item note 6.
2 Includes past service cost of 11 million 2017: nil in respect of GMP equalisation on UK pension schemes, shown as an adjusting item note 6.
3 Shown as an adjusting item note 6.
1 2 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive Directors Aerospace 16,302 Automotive 24,365 Powder Metallurgy 7,369 Nortek Air & Security 7,827 8,714 Other Industrial 6,418 3,216 Corporate Melrose 37 30 3 Corporate GKN 32 Total average number of persons employed 62,350 11,960 1 For GKN businesses the average monthly number of persons employed in the year ended 31 December 2018 reflects the average for the eight-month period from the date of acquisition.
2 Restated to show average monthly number of persons employed in line with the revised segment structure, following the acquisition of GKN.
3 At 31 December 2018, two GKN central employees remained within the Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Finance costs and income Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 103 17 1 Amortisation of costs of raising finance 18 2 Net interest cost on pensions 24 1 Unwind of discount on provisions 10 2 2 Fair value changes on cross-currency swaps 8 Total finance costs 163 22 Finance income 5 1 Total net finance costs 158 21 1 Includes 7 million 2017: nil in respect of accelerated future year charges following the repayment of debt facilities as a result of the acquisition of GKN.
This cost is excluded from adjusted finance costs note 6.
2 These costs are excluded from adjusted finance costs note 6.
150 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 8.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Analysis of tax credit in year: Current tax Current year tax charge 55 13 Adjustments in respect of prior years 21 Total current tax charge 34 13 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 33 6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 Tax on the change in value of derivative financial instruments 31 Adjustments to deferred tax attributable to changes in tax rates 34 39 Loss utilisation against US repatriation charge 16 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 5 Total deferred tax credit 109 17 Total tax credit 75 4 Analysis of credit in year: m m Tax charge in respect of adjusted profit before tax 164 67 Tax credit in respect of adjusting items 239 71 Total tax credit 75 4 The tax charge of 164 million 2017: 67 million arising on adjusted profit before tax of 703 million 2017: 258 million, results in an effective tax rate of 23% 2017: 26%.
Tax in respect of adjusting items includes a credit of 230 million 2017: 44 million arising on adjusting items of 1,253 million 2017: 286 million, nil 2017: 27 million arising from the impact of the US tax measures enacted in December 2017 and 9 million 2017: nil in respect of tax on equity accounted investments.
The tax credit for the year for continuing operations can be reconciled to the loss before tax per the Income Statement as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Loss before tax 550 28 Tax credit on loss before tax at the weighted average rate of 20% 2017: 14% 110 4 Tax effect of: Disallowable expenses and other permanent differences within adjusted profit 10 5 Disallowable items included within adjusting items 57 22 Temporary differences not recognised in deferred tax 14 11 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 5 Withholding taxes 10 Adjustments in respect of prior years 27 10 Tax charge credit classified within adjusting items 10 27 Effect of changes in tax rates 34 1 Total tax credit for the year 75 4 The reconciliation has been performed at a blended Group tax rate of 20% 2017: 14% which represents the weighted average of the tax rates applying to profits and losses in the jurisdictions in which those results arose.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 151 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 8.
Tax continued Tax credits included in Other Comprehensive Income are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax on retirement benefit obligations 9 1 Deferred tax on hedge relationship gains and losses 24 1 Deferred tax on foreign currency gains and losses 5 Total credit charge for the year 38 2 In addition to the amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income in 2017, a deferred tax credit of 34 million in respect of sharebased payments was recognised directly in retained earnings.
Franked investment income litigation Since 2003, the GKN Group has been involved in litigation with HMRC in respect of various advance corporate tax payments and corporate tax paid on certain foreign dividends which, in its view, were levied by HMRC in breach of the Groups EU community law rights.
The most recent Court of Appeal judgement in the case was published in November 2016.
This judgement was broadly positive but HMRC have sought leave to appeal.
The continuing complexity of the remaining case and uncertainty over the issues raised and in particular which points HMRC may seek toappeal means that it is not possible to predict the final outcome of the litigation with any reasonable degree of certainty.
A successful outcome could result in the Group being able to recognise additional deferred tax assets in the UK and receiving cash payments from HMRC.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 paid of 1.9p 36 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 paid of 1.4p 27 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 paid of 2.8p 54 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 paid of 1.55p 75 129 63 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 3.05p per share 2017: 2.8p per share totalling 148 million 2017: 54 million.
The final dividend of 3.05p was proposed by the Board on 7 March 2019 and, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting period, has not been included as a liability in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m m Earnings for basis of earnings per share from continuing operations 475 24 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share million 3,959 1,919 Further shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 22 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 3,959 1,941 On 19 April 2018, 2,469 million ordinary shares were issued as a result of the acquisition of GKN.
Further issues of share capital totalling 448 million took place between 19 April 2018 and 30 June 2018 in order to purchase the remaining non-controlling interests of GKN.
The total number of ordinary shares in issue therefore increased from 1,941 million at 31 December 2017 to 4,858 million at 31 December 2018.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Earnings per share 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 12.0 p 1.2 p Diluted earnings per share 12.0 p 1.2 p 152 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 10.
Earnings per share continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Adjusted earnings m m 1 Adjusted earnings for the basis of adjusted earnings per share 526 191 1 Adjusted earnings for the year ended 31 December 2018 comprises adjusted profit after tax of 539 million note 6, net of an allocation to non-controlling interest of 13 million.
Adjusted earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Continuing operations 2018 2017 Adjusted basic earnings per share 13.3p 9.9p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 13.3p 9.8p 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Customer Brands and 2 2 relationships and intellectual Computer Development 1 Goodwill contracts property Other software costs Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 1,648 623 398 32 22 2,723 Additions 4 4 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 120 52 23 3 1 1 200 At 31 December 2017 1,528 571 375 29 20 3 2,526 Acquisition of businesses 2,538 4,268 473 999 24 444 8,746 Additions 11 24 35 Disposals 5 1 6 Exchange adjustments 205 366 23 29 3 26 652 At 31 December 2018 4,271 5,205 871 1,057 53 496 11,953 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 41 55 6 11 113 Charge for the year: Adjusted operating profit 4 4 Adjusting items 50 23 9 82 3 Impairments 96 96 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 4 1 1 6 At 31 December 2017 96 87 77 14 14 288 Charge for the year: Adjusted operating profit 11 33 44 Adjusting items 275 44 82 401 4 Impairments 123 15 138 Disposals 4 1 5 Exchange adjustments 10 3 2 1 16 At 31 December 2018 219 372 124 98 22 47 882 Net book value At 31 December 2018 4,052 4,833 747 959 31 449 11,071 At 31 December 2017 1,432 484 298 15 6 3 2,238 1 Other includes technology and order backlog intangible assets acquired with the Nortek and GKN businesses.
2 Computer software and development costs were shown aggregated in 2017.
3 The impairment in 2017 relates to an impairment recognised in Brush.
4 The impairments in 2018 relate to goodwill in Brush and development costs in Aerospace.
The goodwill generated as a result of major acquisitions represents the premium paid in excess of the fair value of all net assets, including intangible assets, identified at the point of acquisition.
The carrying value of goodwill includes a premium, paid in order to secure shareholder agreement to the business combination, that is less than the value that the Directors believed could be added to the acquired businesses through the application of their specialist turnaround experience.
The goodwill arising on bolt-on acquisitions is attributable to the anticipated profitability and cash flows arising from the businesses acquired, synergies as a result of the complementary nature of the business with existing Melrose businesses, the assembled workforce, technical expertise, know-how, market share and geographical advantages afforded to the Group.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 153 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The future improvements applied to the acquired businesses, achieved through a combination of revised strategic direction, operational improvements and investment, are expected to result in improved profitability of the acquired businesses during the period of ownership and are also expected to result in enhanced disposal proceeds when the acquired businesses are ultimately disposed.
The combined value achieved from these improvements is expected to be in excess of the value of goodwill acquired.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations, net of impairment, has been allocated to the businesses, each of which comprises several cash-generating units CGUs.
Goodwill in respect of GKN businesses remains provisional at 31 December 2018.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Goodwill m m Brush 122 Nortek businesses: AQH 370 348 HVAC 246 232 Security & Smart Technology 357 320 Ergotron 435 410 GKN businesses: Aerostructures 576 Aerospace Engine Systems 347 Aerospace Special Technologies 51 Automotive Driveline 704 Automotive ePowertrain 345 Powder Metallurgy 529 The Walterscheid Powertrain Group 92 4,052 1,432 Impairment Testing The Group tests goodwill annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
In accordance with IAS 36: Impairment of assets the Group values goodwill at the recoverable amount, being the higher of the value in use basis and the fair value less costs to sell basis.
Value in use calculations have been used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to each group of CGUs.
The calculation uses the latest approved forecast extrapolated to perpetuity using growth rates shown below, which do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
Based on impairment testing completed at the year end, no impairment was identified in respect of the Nortek businesses or the GKNbusinesses.
No reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in an impairment in the AQH and HVAC groups and GKN groups of CGUs.
The recoverable amount of the GKN groups of CGUs at 31 December 2018 are higher than the recent acquisition date fair values.
As a result, no sensitivity analysis has been disclosed for these businesses.
Both Security & Smart Technology and Ergotron have manufacturing facilities located in China that export to the US and their results in 2018, and the ongoing market environment, have been negatively impacted by the increase in US tariffs placed on Chinese goods.
The intention is to pass any increased tariffs through to customers, but the uncertainty around how customers will react and or a further escalation of US tariffs on Chinese goods and the impact that this could have on the behaviour of competitors means that there is a risk that future forecasts could be negatively impacted.
No impairment of goodwill is required within these businesses, but sensitivity analysis has been provided.
An impairment charge of 123 million in respect of goodwill recorded in the Brush group of CGUs has been recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement and is shown as an adjusting item note 6.
154 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Significant assumptions and estimates Each group of CGUs has been assessed through a value in use methodology, using the following significant assumptions.
The basis of these impairment tests and the key assumptions are set out in the table below: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Pre-tax Long-term Period of Pre-tax Long-term Period of Group of CGUs discount rates growth rates forecast discount rates growth rates forecast Brush 10.8% 1.5% 5 11.9% 2.2% 5 AQH 11.8% 3.3% 3 12.6% 3.0% 4 HVAC 11.8% 3.1% 3 12.6% 3.0% 4 Security & Smart Technology 12.0% 3.3% 3 12.6% 3.0% 4 Ergotron 11.8% 3.3% 3 12.6% 3.0% 4 Aerostructures 10.2% 2.0% 5 Aerospace Engine Systems 10.1% 2.5% 5 Aerospace Special Technologies 9.7% 2.5% 5 Automotive Driveline 11.6% 0.0% 5 Automotive ePowertrain 12.0% 3.0% 5 Powder Metallurgy 12.0% 2.0% 5 The Walterscheid Powertrain Group 14.5% 2.0% 5 Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates Cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate specific to each group of CGUs.
Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the territories in which the CGU operates.
In determining the cost of equity, the Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM has been used.
Under CAPM, the cost of equity is determined by adding a risk premium, based on an industry adjustment Beta, to the expected return of the equity market above the risk-free return.
The relative risk adjustment reflects the risk inherent in each group of CGUs relative to all other sectors and geographies on average.
The cost of debt is determined using a risk-free rate based on the cost of government bonds, and an interest rate premium equivalent to a corporate bond with a similar credit rating to Melrose.
Assumptions applied in financial forecasts The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from financial budgets and medium-term forecasts.
Each forecast has been prepared using a cash flow period deemed most appropriate by management, considering the nature of each group of CGUs.
The key assumptions used in forecasting pre-tax cash flows relate to future budgeted revenue and operating margins likely to be achieved and the expected rates of long-term growth by market sector.
Underlying factors in determining the values assigned to each key assumption are shownbelow: Revenue growth and operating margins: Revenue growth assumptions in the forecast period are based on financial budgets and medium-term forecasts by management, taking into account industry growth rates and managements historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Projected sales are built up with reference to markets and product categories.
They incorporate past performance, historical growth rates, projections of developments in key markets, secured orders and orders forecast to be achieved in the short to medium term given trends in the relevant market sector.
Operating margins have been forecast based on historical levels achieved considering the likely impact of changing economic environments and competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of management actions on costs.
Projected margins reflect the impact of all initiated projects to improve operational efficiency and leverage scale.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
Forecasts for other operating costs are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
Aerospace The key drivers for growth in revenue and operating margins are global demand for commercial and military aircraft.
Consumer spending, passenger load factors, raw material input costs, market expectations for aircraft production requirements, technological advancements, and other macroeconomic factors influence demand for these products.
Automotive The key drivers for growth in revenue and operating margins are global demand for a large range of cars including smaller low-cost to larger premium vehicles.
Demand is influenced by technological advancements particularly in electric and full hybrid vehicles, market expectations for global vehicle production requirements, fuel prices, raw material input costs, consumer spending, credit availability, and other macroeconomic factors.
Powder Metallurgy The key drivers for growth in revenue and operating margins are trends in the automotive and industrial markets.
Market expectations for global light vehicle production requirements, raw material input costs, technological advancements, particularly in additive manufacturing, influence demand for these products along with other macroeconomic factors.
The Walterscheid Powertrain Group The key drivers for growth in revenue and operating margins are the global demand in the agricultural, construction, mining, utility and industrial markets.
Demand for these products is impacted by raw material input costs, consumer spending, market expectations on future production requirements, particularly in the agricultural and industrial sectors, and other macroeconomic factors.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 155 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued HVAC and AQH The key drivers for growth in revenue and operating margins are the levels of residential remodelling and replacement activity and the levels of residential and non-residential new construction in the markets in which these businesses operate.
New residential and non-residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, residential remodelling and replacement activity are affected by seasonality and cyclical factors such as interest rates, credit availability, inflation, consumer spending, employment levels and other macroeconomic factors.
Security & Smart Technology The key driver for growth in revenue and operating margins is global demand for security and home automation products.
Consumer spending, employment levels, regulation, technological advancements and the evolution of the traditional security market towards home automation and other macroeconomic factors influence demand for these products.
Ergotron The key driver for growth in revenue and operating margins is demand for technology and wellness products in the markets in which Ergotron operates.
Seasonal factors, public authority spending, corporate and consumer spending, employment levels, the public awareness of wellness, regulation, technological advancements and other macroeconomic factors influence demand for these products.
Brush The key drivers for growth in revenues and operating margins are: i original equipment investments in the global power market, both new capacity mainly emerging markets and replacement capacity mainly in mature markets : ii growth in service requirements of the installed base: and iii new product introduction.
Independent forecasts of growth in these power generation markets have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
Long-term growth rates: Long-term growth rates are based on long-term forecasts for growth in the sectors and geography in which the CGU operates.
Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available data and a long-term growth rate forecast that takes into account the international presence and the markets in which each business operates.
Brush group of CGUs In the previous year, the assets of the Brush business were impaired by 145 million to a value of 300 million, using the fair value less costs to sell basis.
This method of valuation, at the time, was higher than the value in use method, because the latter excluded the benefits of the restructuring announced in February 2018, and would have given a value of 178 million.
The restructuring of the Brush business that was announced in February 2018 followed a full review of the power generation industry and highlighted the surplus generator manufacturing capacity existing in the market.
The restructuring programme has been implemented in line with plan.
However, in 2018 the conditions in the generator services business have also become more challenging as the year has progressed, with competitors taking a decision to look to service opportunities to offset surplus capacity issues in the generator manufacturing market.
Alongside this, customers and competitors in the power generation sector have continued to reorganise and restructure in the second half of 2018.
These newly developed generator services market conditions and the decisions from significant market participants have had a direct impact on the trading of Brush and reduced forecasts in the Brush generator servicing business.
At 31 December 2018, the recoverable amount of the Brush assets, using the reduced forecasts and the value in use method, was 103 million, resulting in a further impairment to Brush goodwill of 123 million in the year.
Sensitivity analysis Further sensitivity analysis has been carried out on the Brush group of CGUs.
For illustration purposes, a further 0.1 percentage point increase in the discount rate or a further five per cent reduction in the annual and terminal value of operating profit could result in a reduction in the value in use of 1 million and 5 million respectively.
A further 0.1 percentage point decrease in the long-term growth rate could result in a reduction in the value in use of 1 million.
Security & Smart Technology group of CGUs The goodwill related to the Security & Smart Technology SST group of CGUs is tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the SST group against recoverable amounts of the SST CGUs.
As disclosed within note 3, determination of the recoverable amount involved management judgement on highly uncertain matters, particularly with respect to the possible increase in tariffs in the US for goods being imported from China: the level of competition and technological change in the market: the timing and quantity of forecast unit sales: long-term growth rates and discount factors.
The value in use model prepared for the SST group was prepared using latest cash flow projections for the period 2019-2021 followed by an assumed long-term growth rate of 3.3%.
These cash flow projections were discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 12.0% and used sale price and cost inflation data from available market sources.
Sensitivity analysis The forecasts, prepared using a methodology required by IAS 36, show headroom of 88 million above the carrying amount for the SST group of CGUs.
In accordance with IAS 36 a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken and a reasonably possible increase in the discount rate from 12.0% to 13.4% would reduce headroom to nil.
A reasonably possible decrease in the long-term growth rate from 3.3% to 1.7% would reduce headroom to nil.
In relation to a possible increase in US tariffs, it is difficult to model the precise impact on business performance at this time but this would likely lead to reduced sales and margins in the short term.
A five per cent reduction in the annual and terminal value of operating profit could result in a reduction in the value in use of 34 million.
156 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Ergotron group of CGUs The goodwill related to the Ergotron group of CGUs is tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the Ergotron group against recoverable amounts of the Ergotron CGUs.
As disclosed within note 3, determination of the recoverable amount involved management judgement on highly uncertain matters, particularly with respect to the possible increase in tariffs in the US for goods being imported from China as well as long-term growth rates.
The value in use model prepared for the Ergotron group used the latest cash flow projections for the period 2019-2021 followed by an assumed long-term growth rate of 3.3%.
These cash flow projections were discounted at a pre-tax discount rate of 11.8% and used sale price and cost inflation data from available market sources.
Sensitivity analysis The forecasts, prepared using a methodology required by IAS 36, show headroom of 198 million above the carrying amount for the Ergotron group of CGUs.
In accordance with IAS 36 a sensitivity analysis has been undertaken and a reasonably possible decrease in the long-term growth rate from 3.3% to 0.2% would reduce headroom to nil.
A five per cent reduction in the annual and terminal value of operating profit could result in a reduction in the value in use of 42 million.
Allocation of significant intangible assets The allocation of significant customer relationships, brands, intellectual property and technology is as follows: Customer relationships Brands, intellectual property and technology Remaining amortisation period Net book value Remaining amortisation period Net book value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 years years m m years years m m Brush 1 2 10 11 55 61 AQH 12 13 176 180 13 14 55 56 HVAC 9 10 93 97 13 14 71 72 1 Security & Smart Technology 12 13 108 110 13 14 40 40 Ergotron 8 9 88 95 16 17 83 84 Aerostructures 10 604 20 529 Aerospace Engine Systems 20 1,960 20 203 Aerospace Special Technologies 10 53 20 61 Automotive Driveline 12 693 20 122 Automotive ePowertrain 9 334 20 329 Powder Metallurgy 17 651 20 85 The Walterscheid Powertrain Group 15 63 8 62 Wheels & Structures 20 10 20 11 4,833 484 1,706 313 1 The Security & Smart Technology brands, intellectual property and technology balance at 31 December 2018 includes 9 million in relation to IntelliVision, acquired in the year.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 157 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 12.
Acquisitions GKN On 19 April 2018 the Group acquired approximately 85% of the issued share capital and obtained control of GKN plc for consideration of 7,091 million.
The remaining 15% of share capital was acquired subsequently, at a cost of 1,260 million which has been treated as a purchase of a non-controlling interest.
GKN is a global engineering business which designs, manufactures and services systems and components for original equipment manufacturers, specialising in the aerospace and automotive markets.
The Group has reviewed the assets and liabilities acquired.
Due to the size of the acquired business, the assessment of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired has not yet been finalised.
In accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations, the acquisition Balance Sheet of GKN at 19 April 2018 remains provisional as of 31 December 2018 as there could be further adjustment to the fair values recognised in the table below, if additional information comes to light.
Provisional GKN IntelliVision fair value m m m Property, plant and equipment 2,619 2,619 Intangible assets 6,199 9 6,208 Interests in equity accounted investments 512 512 Inventories 1,173 1,173 1 Trade and other receivables, excluding contract assets 1,973 1 1,974 Contract assets 524 524 Cash and cash equivalents 307 307 Trade and other payables 2,915 2,915 Derivative financial instruments 137 137 Provisions and contingent liabilities 1,180 1,180 Deferred tax 761 761 Retirement benefit obligations 1,369 1,369 Current tax liabilities 89 89 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,430 1,430 2 Non-controlling interests 857 857 Net assets attributable to the parent 4,569 10 4,579 Total consideration 7,091 26 7,117 Provisional goodwill 2,522 16 2,538 Total consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 1,290 26 1,316 Shares issued to GKN shareholders 5,801 5,801 1 The fair value of financial assets includes gross trade and other receivables of 1,994 million.
The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected is 20 million.
2 Non-controlling interests include an amount of 830 million in respect of approximately 15% of the issued share capital of GKN not acquired on 19 April 2018, but subsequently purchased in the period 19 April 2018 to 30 June 2018.
158 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 12.
Acquisitions continued GKN contributed 7,212 million to adjusted revenue and 607 million to adjusted operating profit for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
The amounts recognised in relation to GKN for the period from 19 April to 31 December 2018 include revenue and profit and the associated impact on working capital, based on an estimate of activity from 19 April to 30 April 2018.
If the acquisition of GKN had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group adjusted revenues would have been 12,247million and Group adjusted operating profit would have been 1,095 million.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of GKN is attributable to the anticipated profitability and cash flows arising from the businesses acquired, the assembled workforce, technical expertise, know-how, market share and geographical advantages afforded to the Group, and which, the Group expects to realise through a combination of revised strategic direction, operational improvements and investment.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Contingent liabilities acquired in respect of legal claims of 15 million have been recognised within provisions, none of which were utilised in the period.
The majority of expenditure is expected to be incurred over the next five years.
In determining the fair value of assets acquired in the GKN business combination, a number of estimates and judgements have been made.
The fair value exercise was carried out in conjunction with independent experts and considered the existence and valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities, and the goodwill which has arisen.
Intangible assets Intangible assets inherent in GKNs customer relationships contracts were valued using an excess earnings method.
This methodology places a value on the asset as a function of a managements estimate of the expected cash flows arising from the customer contracts: b discount rates reflective of the risks inherent in the cash flows: and c a contributory charge attributable to assets needed to generate the operating cash flows.
An after-tax discount rate of 8.5% to 10.8% was applied to the forecast cash flows.
The tradenames within the GKN business were deemed to have measurable value as they are well recognised in their industries.
They have been valued using a relief from royalty methodology based on projected cash flows attributable to the tradename and an assumed royalty rate that would be charged if the name were subject to licence within a comparable trade situation and an appropriate discount rate reflecting inherent risk in the projected cash flows.
A total fair value of 473 million has been recognised for tradenames and intellectual property.
The proprietary technology and know-how has been valued using a relief from royalty methodology, consistent with the Group accounting policy.
The cash flow forecasts supporting this valuation reflect the future sales to be generated in conjunction with the technology.
The fair value is attributed to the proprietary technology and represents the theoretical costs avoided by GKN from not having to pay a licence fee for the technology.
The royalty rates used in the valuation were 3.0% to 4.5% based on review of licence agreements for comparable technologies in a similar segment.
After-tax discount rates of 9.5% to 10.5% were applied to the forecast cash flows, rates that reflects the inherent risk within cash flows and are comparable with the weighted average cost of capital for the acquisition.
The valuation of all intangible assets reflects the tax benefit of amortisation, which has been assessed with reference to country tax laws.
IntelliVision Inc. IntelliVision On 27 April 2018, the Groups Security & Smart Technology business acquired 100% of the issued share capital and obtained control of IntelliVision, a leader in artificial intelligence, smart cameras and video analytics software, for consideration of 26 million.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out in the table above.
Fair values remain provisional as at 31 December 2018 in case additional information comes to light that would require adjustment to the fair values recognised in the table above.
Transaction costs incurred on all acquisition and disposal activities during the year and charged through the Income Statement totalled 153 million note 6.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 159 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 13.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 139 186 325 Additions 9 39 48 Disposals 3 11 14 Transfer to held for sale 12 6 18 Exchange adjustments 3 6 9 At 31 December 2017 130 202 332 Acquisition of businesses 715 1,904 2,619 1 Additions 57 369 426 Disposals 10 41 51 Disposal of businesses 8 8 Exchange adjustments 51 145 196 At 31 December 2018 943 2,571 3,514 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 11 42 53 Charge for the year 6 25 31 Disposals 10 10 Transfer to held for sale 1 2 3 Impairments 16 28 44 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 At 31 December 2017 31 82 113 Charge for the year 26 212 238 Disposals 36 36 2 Impairments 3 11 14 Exchange adjustments 2 12 14 At 31 December 2018 62 281 343 Net book value At 31 December 2018 881 2,290 3,171 At 31 December 2017 99 120 219 1 Additions include 39 million 2017: nil in relation to assets acquired under finance leases.
2 Treated as an adjusting item note 6.
Equity accounted investments 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Aggregated amounts relating to equity accounted investments: Share of current assets 382 3 Share of non-current assets 420 Share of current liabilities 231 3 Share of non-current liabilities 79 Interests in equity accounted investments 492 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Group share of results m m Revenue 497 3 Operating costs 438 3 Adjusted operating profit 59 Adjusting items 15 Net finance costs 1 Profit before tax 43 Tax 9 Share of results of equity accounted investments 34 160 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 14.
Equity accounted investments continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Group share of equity accounted investments m m At 1 January Acquisition of businesses 512 Share of results of equity accounted investments 34 Additions 3 Dividends paid to the Group 66 Exchange adjustments 9 At 31 December 492 Within the Groups share of equity accounted investments the Group has one significant joint venture, held within the Automotive segment, Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems Co Limited SDS.
SDS had total sales in the post-acquisition period of 839 million, adjusted operating profit of 108 million, adjusting items of 30 million, an interest charge of nil and a tax charge of 16 million, leaving retained profit of 62 million.
Total net assets of SDS at 31 December 2018 were 937 million.
These comprised non-current assets of 805 million, current assets of 464 million, current liabilities of 319 million and non-current liabilities of 13 million.
During 2018, SDS paid a dividend to the Group of 58 million.
Further information about SDS can be found in note 3 to the Melrose Industries PLC Company Financial Statements.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 659 79 Work in progress 328 55 Finished goods 502 142 1,489 276 In 2018 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 65 million 2017: 12 million, of this, 18 million 2017: 4 million related to restructuring activities and is included within adjusting items.
The reversal of write-downs amounted to 20 million 2017: 3million.
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Current m m Trade receivables 1,877 313 Allowance for doubtful receivables 42 15 Other receivables 256 21 Prepayments 37 13 Contract assets 200 2,328 332 Trade receivables are non interest-bearing.
Credit terms offered to customers vary upon the country of operation but are generally between 30 and 90 days.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Non-current m m Other receivables 108 2 Contract assets 396 504 2 As described in note 24, certain businesses participate in receivables working capital programmes and have the ability to choose whether to receive payment earlier than the normal due date, for specific customers on a non-recourse basis.
As at 31 December 2018, all eligible receivables under these programmes have been factored and derecognised in line with the derecognition criteria of IFRS 9.
There are no amounts due under such schemes at the year end.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 161 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 16.
Trade and other receivables continued An allowance has been made for expected lifetime credit losses with reference to past default experience and managements assessment of credit worthiness over trade receivables, other receivables and contract assets, an analysis of which is as follows: Powder Nortek Air & Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Other Industrial Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 17 1 18 Income Statement charge Utilised 1 1 Transfer to held for sale 1 1 Exchange adjustments 1 1 At 31 December 2017 14 1 15 Adoption of IFRS 9 2 2 Income Statement charge credit 13 6 3 4 5 23 Utilised 2 1 3 Exchange adjustments 2 2 1 5 At 31 December 2018 15 6 3 12 6 42 The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large number of unrelated customers.
Credit control procedures are implemented to ensure that sales are only made to organisations that are willing and able to pay for them.
Such procedures include the establishment and review of customer credit limits and terms.
The Group does not hold any collateral or any other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The ageing of impaired trade receivables past due is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m 0 30 days 12 11 31 60 days 1 60 days 29 4 42 15 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are overdue trade receivables with a carrying amount of 208 million 31 December 2017: 55 million against which a provision of 42 million 31 December 2017: 15 million is held.
The balance deemed recoverable of 166 million 31 December 2017: 40 million is past due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m 0 30 days 124 28 31 60 days 33 6 60 days 9 6 166 40 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, including amounts not past due and not impaired, approximates to their fair value.
162 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 16.
Trade and other receivables continued The Groups contract assets comprise the following: Participation Unbilled Variable fees receivables consideration Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2018 Acquisition of businesses 173 164 171 16 524 Additions 25 145 28 15 213 Utilised 6 164 12 182 Exchange adjustments 21 19 1 41 At 31 December 2018 213 145 206 32 596 Participation fees Participation fees are described in the accounting policies note 2 and under IFRS 15 they are considered to be a reduction in revenue for the related customer contract.
Amounts are capitalised and amortised to match to the related performance obligation.
Unbilled receivables for over time recognition Unbilled receivables for over time recognition represent amounts previously recorded in inventory along with associated margins wherecontracts contain a legal right to compensation for work completed, including a margin, and there is no alternative use for the customers asset.
Variable consideration Variable consideration only impacts a small number of businesses in the Group, exclusively in the Aerospace reporting segment.
Due to the nature of risk and revenue sharing partnerships, covered in detail in the accounting policies note 2, original equipment OE products sold to engine manufacturers are at a lower margin with more favourable pricing in the aftermarket phase.
Where the Group has a contractual right to this aftermarket revenue, IFRS 15 requires that the total contract revenue is allocated to the performance obligations based on their standalone selling price and recognised as control is transferred to the customer.
Whilst this has resulted in a material value, attributable to previously delivered OE components, being recognised ahead of cash recovery during the aftermarket phase, risk adjustments as well as a constraint applied to revenue recognised in the year, have been applied due to future uncertainty.
Any constraint applied to variable consideration will only unwind when uncertainties are resolved.
This could lead to additional revenue recognition in future periods.
A contract asset of 524 million was recognised on acquisition of GKN note 12 and the movement up to 31 December 2018 is shown in the table above.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 415 16 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand which earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates and short-term deposits which are made for varying periods of between one day and one month.
The carrying amount of these assets is considered to be equal to their fair value.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 163 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 18.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Current m m Trade payables 1,307 210 Other payables 568 18 Customer advances and contract liabilities 190 Other taxes and social security 64 7 Government refundable advances 8 Accruals 434 132 Deferred government grants 12 2,583 367 As at 31 December 2018, and as described in note 24, included within trade payables were drawings on supplier finance facilities of 94 million 2017: nil.
Trade payables are non interest-bearing.
Normal settlement terms vary by country and the average credit period taken for trade and other payables is 81 days 2017: 66 days.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Non-current m m Other payables 94 1 Customer advances and contract liabilities 552 Other taxes and social security 23 Government refundable advances 73 Deferred government grants 8 Accruals 28 1 778 2 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Non-current amounts owed to suppliers fall due within two years.
Government refundable advances are forecast to fall due for repayment between 2019 and 2055.
Customer advances and contract liabilities increased significantly on acquisition of GKN.
The balance includes cash receipts from customers in advance of the Group completing its performance obligations and is generally utilised as product is delivered.
Non-current amounts in respect of customer advances and contract liabilities will be utilised as follows: one to two years 241 million, two to five years 136 million and over five years 175 million.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risk are included in note 24.
Current Noncurrent Total 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Floating rate obligations Bank borrowings US Dollar loan 1,118 462 1,118 462 Bank borrowings Sterling loan 1,139 134 1,139 134 Bank borrowings Euro loan 363 363 Fixed rate obligations 2019 350 million bond 350 350 2022 450 million bond 450 450 2032 300 million bond 300 300 Other loans 13 6 19 363 3,376 596 3,739 596 Unamortised finance costs 41 8 41 8 Non-cash acquisition fair value adjustment 14 43 57 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 377 3,378 588 3,755 588 A new multi-currency committed bank facility was entered into on 17 January 2018 to assist with the acquisition of GKN, which replaced the previous bank facility of US$1.25 billion.
The US$1.25 billion facility was repaid and cancelled on 30 April 2018.
The new facility included a 1.5 billion multi-currency term loan with a duration of three years and six months.
In addition, the new facility included a five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility, denominated 1.1 billion, US$2.0 billion and 0.5 billion.
164 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued On 29 October 2018, 663 million of the new term loan was surplus to requirements, and therefore cancelled, because potential change of control clauses on the bonds were not exercised by the relevant bondholders.
At 31 December 2018 the drawings on the term loan were 100 million and US$960 million.
There was a significant amount of headroom on the multi-currency committed revolving credit facility, as at 31 December 2018.
Applying the exchange rates at 31 December 2018 the headroom equated to 1,352 million, which includes an amount available to replace the 2019 bond when it matures, or before.
There are also a number of uncommitted overdraft, guarantee and borrowing facilities made available to the Group.
These uncommitted facilities have been lightly used.
Throughout the year, the Group remained compliant with all covenants under the facilities disclosed above.
A number of Group companies continue to be guarantors under the bank facilities.
Drawdowns under the existing facilities bear interest at interbank rates plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt cover ratio, ranging between 0.75% to 2.0% on the term loan, and 0.95% to 2.25% on the revolving credit facility.
As at 31December 2018 the margin was 1.4% on the term loan and 1.65% on the revolving credit facility 31 December 2017: 1.35% on the Melrose committed bank debt.
The GKN net debt at acquisition included three capital market borrowings totalling 1.1 billion.
The bonds maturing in 2019 and 2022 have cross-currency swaps associated with them.
Details are in the table below: Notional Cross-currency Interest rate amount Coupon swaps on swaps Maturity date m % p. a. million % p. a. October 2019 350 6.75% US$578 6.80% September 2022 450 5.375% US$373 5.70% 284 3.87% May 2032 300 3.375% n a n a The coupon rate on the 300 million bond, maturing in 2032, is expected to increase to 4.625% from May 2019.
Maturity of financial liabilities excluding currency contracts The table below shows the maturity profile of anticipated future cash flows, including interest, on an undiscounted basis in relation to the Groups financial liabilities other than those associated with currency risk, which are shown in note 24, and finance lease obligations which are shown in note 27.
The amounts shown therefore differ from the carrying value and fair value of the Groups financial liabilities.
Interest rate Interestbearing derivative Other Total loans and financial financial financial borrowings liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m Within one year 502 1 2,317 2,820 In one to two years 122 3 122 247 In two to five years 3,285 14 18 3,317 After five years 425 55 480 Effect of financing rates 579 4 583 31 December 2018 3,755 14 2,512 6,281 Within one year 18 360 378 In one to two years 20 2 22 In two to five years 626 626 After five years Effect of financing rates 76 76 31 December 2017 588 362 950 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 165 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 20.
Provisions Property Environmental Warranty Loss-making related and related contracts costs litigation costs Restructuring Other Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 3 14 88 73 20 11 209 Acquisition of businesses 629 62 123 295 24 47 1,180 1 Utilised 63 5 60 36 111 9 284 2 Net charge to operating profit 1 43 37 181 3 257 Unwind of discount 9 1 10 Disposal of businesses 8 8 Exchange adjustments 47 3 8 18 2 3 81 At 31 December 2018 616 74 202 387 116 50 1,445 Current 65 15 58 130 108 5 381 Non-current 551 59 144 257 8 45 1,064 616 74 202 387 116 50 1,445 1 Includes 63 million of non-cash unwind of loss-making contracts provisions, positively impacting operating profit in 2018.
2 Includes restructuring charges and other adjusting items of 168 million, along with 89 million relating to items charged through adjusted operating profit.
The Groups provision categories have been reconsidered following the acquisition of GKN which has resulted in certain reclassifications between provision categories.
Loss-making contracts Provisions for loss-making contracts are considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
This obligation has been discounted and will be utilised over the period of the respective contracts, which is up to 15 years.
Calculation of loss-making contract provisions is based on contract documentation and delivery expectations, along with an estimate ofdirectly attributable costs and represents managements best estimate of the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the contract.
Property related costs The provision for property related costs represents the estimated net payments for surplus property or off-market lease contracts on acquisition, due over the term of the leases and any dilapidation costs for ongoing leases.
This is expected to result in cash expenditure over the next eight years.
Calculations of surplus leasehold property costs and dilapidations are based on lease agreements with landlords and external quotes, or in the absence of specific documentation, managements best estimate of the costs required to fulfilobligations.
Environmental and litigation Environmental and litigation provisions relate to the estimated remediation costs of pollution, soil and groundwater contamination at certain sites and estimated future costs and settlements in relation to legal claims and associated insurance obligations.
Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Provisions are recorded for product and general liability claims which are probable and for which the cost can be reliably estimated.
These liabilities include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported and are based on actuarial valuations using claim data.
Due to their nature, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
The Group has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties.
Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, considering professional advice received.
This represents managements best estimate of the likely outcome.
The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations.
Contractual and other provisions represent managements best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations and reflect managements assessment of the likely settlement method, which may change over time.
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been, or might be, brought by other parties against Group companies unless management, considering professional advice received, assess that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
Warranty related costs Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products and subsequently updated for changes in estimates as necessary.
The provision for warranty related costs represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligations, based on past experience, recent claims and current estimates of costs relating to specific claims.
Warranty terms are, on average, between one and five years.
166 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 20.
Provisions continued Restructuring Restructuring provisions relate to committed costs in respect of restructuring programmes, usually resulting in cash spend within one year.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by either starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are necessarily entailed by the restructuring programmes.
Other Other provisions include long-term incentive plans for divisional senior management and the employer tax on equity-settled Incentive Schemes which are expected to result in cash expenditure over the next two to five years.
Where appropriate, provisions have been discounted using discount rates between 0% and 9% 31 December 2017: 3% depending on the territory in which the provision resides and the length of its expected utilisation.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities Accelerated Tax losses capital Deferred tax Total and other allowances and on intangible deferred tax Total net assets other liabilities assets liabilities deferred tax m m m m m At 1 January 2017 50 12 118 130 80 Charge credit to income 108 5 130 125 17 Credit to equity 30 2 2 32 Exchange adjustments 16 27 27 11 1 Movement in set off of assets and liabilities 93 3 96 93 At 31 December 2017 49 12 57 69 20 Acquisition of businesses 712 188 1,285 1,473 761 Charge credit to income 64 42 131 173 109 Credit to equity 37 1 1 38 Exchange adjustments 20 17 94 111 91 1 Movement in set off of assets and liabilities 605 8 597 605 At 31 December 2018 149 166 708 874 725 1 Set off of deferred tax assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 12 within territories with a right of set off.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had gross unused corporate income tax losses of 1,991 million 31 December 2017: 497 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 192 million 31 December 2017: 62 million has been recognised in respect of 978 million 31 December 2017: 346 million of these gross losses.
No asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the divisional and geographic split of anticipated future profit streams.
Most of these losses may be carried forward indefinitely subject to certain continuity of business requirements.
Where losses are subject to time expiry, a deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that sufficient future profits are anticipated to utilise these losses.
In addition to the corporate income tax losses included above, a deferred tax asset of 42 million 31 December 2017: 33 million has been recognised on US tax credits and US state tax losses.
Deferred tax assets have also been recognised on Group retirement benefit obligations at 170 million 31 December 2017: 4 million and on other temporary differences at 494 million 31 December 2017: 94 million.
The gross deferred tax assets therefore amount to 898million 31 December 2017: 193 million.
Deferred tax liabilities have been recognised on intangible assets at 1,446 million 31 December 2017: 198 million and accelerated capital allowances and other temporary differences at 177 million 31 December 2017: 15 million.
The gross deferred tax liabilities therefore amount to 1,623 million 31 December 2017: 213 million.
There are no material unrecognised deferred tax assets at 31 December 2018, other than the losses referred to above.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries except where the distribution of such profits is planned.
If these earnings were remitted in full, tax of 59 million 31 December 2017: 3 million would be payable.
This figure could increase significantly if, as a result of Brexit, the Group had to rely on withholding tax rates as set out in Double Taxation Conventions agreed between the UK and other countries, rather than the EU Parent-Subsidiary Directive.
Due to the ongoing uncertainty around the UKs exit from the EU, this amount has not been quantified at the current time.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 167 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 22.
Share-based payments Melrose Incentive Plan The 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan was established on 11 May 2017 and comprised 50,000 2017 options which enable the holders to subscribe for 2017 Melrose Incentive Shares.
These options are to be issued to Directors and Senior Management in three annual tranches and 31,203 options had been issued at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 16,542.
For accounting purposes the IFRS 2 charge has been calculated as if all three tranches had been granted on day one because of a common expectation, established at that date, between employees and the Company that the options will be allocated annually over the three-year performance period.
It is expected that the remaining options will be issued prior to the crystallisation of the Plan in May 2020.
Further details of the 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 98.
During 2017, 12,831 of the incentive plan options were converted to incentive shares with a nominal value of 1 each.
The number of incentive plan options in issue as at 31 December 2018 is therefore 37,169 31 December 2017: 37,169.
The estimated value of the 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan at 31 December 2018 was nil 31 December 2017: nil.
Using a Black Scholes option pricing model, the projected value of this plan at 31 May 2020 will be 13 million 31 December 2017: projected value of 25 million.
The annual IFRS 2 charge to be recognised in respect of the 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan is 13 million.
The inputs into the Black Scholes valuation model that were used to fair value the plan at the point of establishment in May 2017 were as follows: Valuation assumptions Weighted average share price 2.41 Weighted average exercise price 2.77 Expected volatility 27% Expected life as at inception 3.05 years Risk free interest 0.2% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The Group recognised an IFRS 2 charge of 13 million 2017: 10 million in the year ended 31 December 2018.
13 million 2017: 8million was in respect of the 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan and nil 2017: 2 million was in respect of the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution plans The Group operates defined contribution plans for qualifying employees across several jurisdictions.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
The total costs charged in relation to the continuing businesses during the year of 67 million 2017: 7 million represent contributions payable to these plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit plans The Group sponsors defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of certain subsidiaries.
The funded defined benefit plans are administered by separate funds that are legally separated from the Group.
The Trustees of the funds are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the plans.
The Trustees of the pension funds are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The most significant defined benefit pension plans in the Group at 31 December 2018 were: GKN UK 2012 Pension Plan The GKN UK 2012 Pension Plan is a funded plan, closed to new members and was closed to future accrual in 2017.
The valuation of the plan was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 5 April 2016, updated at 31 December 2018 by independent actuaries.
GKN UK 2016 Pension Plan The GKN UK 2016 Pension Plan is a funded plan, closed to new members with no active members, containing assets and liabilities in respect of the pension schemes from various legacy GKN businesses.
The valuation of the plan was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 5 April 2016, updated to 31 December 2018 by independent actuaries.
GKN US Consolidated Pension Plan The GKN US Consolidated Pension Plan is a funded plan, closed to new members and closed to future accrual.
The US Pension Plan valuation was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 1 January 2018, updated to 31 December 2018 by independent actuaries.
GKN Germany Pension Plans The GKN Germany Pension Plans provide benefits dependent on final salary and service with the Company.
The plans are generally unfunded and closed to new members.
168 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Brush UK Pension Plan The Brush Group 2013 Brush UK Pension Plan is a funded plan, closed to new members and closed to future accrual.
The valuation of the Brush UK Pension Plan was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2016, updated to 31 December 2018 by independent actuaries.
Other plans include a number of funded and unfunded defined benefit arrangements and retiree medical insurance plans, predominantly in the US and Europe.
The cost of the Groups defined benefit plans is determined in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits using the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations and using the projected unit credit method.
In line with normal practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the UK and annually in the US and Germany.
Contributions The Group committed to contribute 150 million in total to the GKN UK 2012 and 2016 plans in the first 12 months of ownership, as well as ongoing annual contributions of 60 million.
In addition, the Group has committed to contribute 270 million upon the disposal of Powder Metallurgy, 10% of the proceeds from disposal of other GKN businesses and 5% of the proceeds from disposal of non-GKN businesses to the GKN UK pension plans.
These commitments cease when the funding target which has been agreed with Trustees is achieved, being gilts plus 25 basis points for the GKN UK 2016 plan and gilts plus 75 basis points for the GKN UK 2012 plan.
The Group contributed 102 million 2017: 4 million to defined benefit pension plans and post-employment plans in the year ended 31December 2018, including 56 million of the Melrose commitment to contribute 150 million to the GKN UK 2012 and 2016 plans within the first 12 months of GKN ownership.
The Group expects to contribute 192 million to defined benefit pension plans and post-employment plans in 2019, consisting of 94 million of one-off special payments, being the balance of the 150 million upfront commitment, and 98 million of ongoing commitments.
Actuarial assumptions The major assumptions used by the actuaries in calculating the Groups pension liabilities are as set out below: Rate of increase of pensions in payment Discount rate Price inflation % per annum % per annum % per annum 31 December 2018 GKN UK 2012 plan 3.1 2.9 2.1 GKN UK 2016 plan 3.1 2.9 2.1 GKN US plans n a 4.1 2.5 GKN Europe plans 2.5 1.9 1.8 Brush UK plan 3.2 2.9 2.1 31 December 2017 Brush UK plan 3.2 2.5 2.1 Mortality GKN UK 2012 Pension Plan, GKN UK 2016 Pension Plan and the Brush UK Pension Plan Mortality assumptions for all UK pension plans as at 31 December 2018 were based on the Self-Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S2 base tables.
The Brush UK Pension Plan uses a scaling factor of 110%.
The GKN UK 2012 scheme and the small post-retirement medical plan use scaling factors of 96% for male and 85% for females.
The GKN UK 2016 scheme uses scaling factors of 100% for male and 91% for females.
Future improvements for all UK plans are in line with the 2017 Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI improvement model with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
GKN US Consolidated Pension Plan The GKN US Consolidated Pension Plan uses RP2006 mortality tables, consistent with the plans most recent formal valuation 1 January 2018.
Other US plans also use RP2006 but in some cases the base table is adjusted to reflect scheme experience.
Future improvements for all US plans are in line with MP2018.
GKN Germany Pension Plan All German plans use the Richttafein 2018 G tables, with no adjustment.
The following table shows the future life expectancy of individuals age 65 at the year-end and the future life expectancy of individuals aged 65 in 20 years time.
GKN US GKN UK 2012 GKN UK 2016 Consolidated GKN Germany Brush UK Pension Plan Pension Plan Pension Plan Pension Plan Pension Plan years years years years years Male today 22.3 22.0 19.7 20.0 21.3 Female today 25.1 24.6 21.7 23.6 23.2 Male in 20 years time 23.7 23.4 21.3 22.8 22.7 Female in 20 years time 26.6 26.1 23.3 25.8 24.7 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 169 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Balance Sheet disclosures The amount recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet arising from net liabilities in respect of defined benefit plans was as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 3,937 538 Fair value of plan assets 3,273 524 Funded status 664 14 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 749 4 Net liabilities 1,413 18 The plan liabilities and assets at 31 December 2018 were as follows: UK US European Other 1 Plans Plans Plans Plans Total m m m m m Plan assets 2,791 412 29 41 3,273 Plan liabilities 3,378 565 690 53 4,686 Net liabilities 587 153 661 12 1,413 1 Includes a net deficit in respect of the GKN UK 2012 plan, GKN post-employment medical plans, and the Nortek UK plan and a surplus in respect of the Brush UK plan and the GKN UK 2016 plan.
The major categories and fair values of plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Equities 639 231 Government bonds 802 138 Corporate bonds 524 114 Property 147 10 Insurance contracts 181 Multi-strategy Diversified Growth Funds 781 Private equity 140 Other 59 31 Total 3,273 524 The assets were well diversified and the majority of plan assets had quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds were issued by reputable governments and were generally AA rated or higher.
Interest rate and inflation rate swaps were also employed to complement the role of fixed and index-linked bond holdings for liability risk management.
The Trustees continually review whether the chosen investment strategy is appropriate with a view to providing the pension benefits and to ensure appropriate matching of risk and return profiles.
The main strategic policies included maintaining an appropriate asset mix, managing interest rate sensitivity and maintaining an appropriate equity buffer.
Investment results are regularly reviewed.
170 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 542 556 Acquisition of businesses 4,216 Transfer to held for sale 1 Current service cost 10 1 Past service cost 11 Interest cost on obligations 96 17 Remeasurement gains demographic 7 6 Remeasurement gains losses financial 77 24 Remeasurement gains losses experience 1 10 Benefits paid out of plan assets 159 33 Benefits paid out of Group assets for unfunded plans 17 1 Settlements 1 Exchange adjustments 73 24 At 31 December 4,686 542 1 An expense of 11 million has been recorded in the year ended 31 December 2018 as a past service cost in respect of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pension GMP benefits in the UK.
This has been treated as an adjusting item note 6.
The defined benefit plan liabilities were 31% 31 December 2017: 2% in respect of active plan participants, 23% 31 December 2017: 47% in respect of deferred plan participants and 46% 31 December 2017: 51% in respect of pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan liabilities at 31 December 2018 was 16.6 years 31 December 2017: 14.8 years.
Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 524 522 Acquisition of businesses 2,847 Interest income on plan assets 72 16 Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 121 40 Contributions 85 3 Benefits paid out of plan assets 159 33 Plan administrative costs 12 2 Settlements 1 Exchange adjustments 38 22 At 31 December 3,273 524 The actual return on plan assets was a loss of 49 million 2017: gain of 56 million.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 171 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Income Statement disclosures Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of these defined benefit plans were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Included within operating profit: current service cost 10 1 past service cost 11 plan administrative costs 12 2 Included within net finance costs: interest cost on defined benefit obligations 96 17 interest income on plan assets 72 16 1 An expense of 11 million has been recorded in the year ended 31 December 2018 as a past service cost in respect of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pension GMP benefits in the UK.
Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of these defined benefit plans were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 121 40 Remeasurement gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7 6 Remeasurement gains losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 77 24 Remeasurement gains losses arising from experience adjustments 1 10 Net remeasurement loss gain on retirement benefit obligations 36 12 Risks and sensitivities The defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks.
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the plan liabilities at the year-end was as follows: Decrease Increase increase to plan decrease to liabilities profit before tax Change in assumption m m Discount rate Increase by 0.1 ppts 68 1 Decrease by 0.1 ppts 73 1 1 Inflation assumption Increase by 0.1 ppts 52 n a Decrease by 0.1 ppts 51 n a Assumed life expectancy at age 65 rate of mortality Increase by 1 year 163 n a Decrease by 1 year 159 n a 1 The inflation sensitivity encompasses the impact on pension increases, where applicable.
The sensitivity analysis above was determined based on reasonable possible changes to the respective assumptions, while holding all other assumptions constant.
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
The sensitivities are based on the relevant assumptions and membership profile as at 31 December 2018 and are applied to the obligations at the end of the reporting period.
Whilst the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected, it does provide an approximation to the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate and the sensitivity analysis presented may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
172 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each category of financial assets and liabilities and their carrying values at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017: Powder Nortek Air & Other Aerospace Automotive Metallurgy Security Industrial Corporate Total m m m m m m m 31 December 2018 Financial assets Classified as amortised cost: Cash and cash equivalents 415 415 Net trade receivables 837 458 177 193 170 1,835 Contract assets 584 12 596 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 2 1 12 15 Interest rate swaps 8 8 Embedded derivatives 18 18 Financial liabilities Classified as amortised cost: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3,755 3,755 Government refundable advances 81 81 Finance lease obligations 21 35 1 57 Other financial liabilities 842 913 155 217 224 80 2,431 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 3 1 205 209 Interest rate swaps 14 14 Cross-currency swaps 199 199 Embedded derivatives 9 9 31 December 2017 Financial assets Classified as amortised cost: Cash and cash equivalents 16 16 Net trade receivables 208 90 298 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 1 1 4 6 Interest rate swaps 8 8 Financial liabilities Classified as amortised cost: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 587 588 Other financial liabilities 246 105 11 362 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 1 1 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 173 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair values The Directors consider that the financial assets and liabilities have fair values not materially different to the carrying values.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets were cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, contract assets and derivative financial assets which represented the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial assets was limited because the counterparties were banks with strong credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Exposure is managed on the basis of risk rating and counterparty limits.
The value of credit risk in derivative assets has been modelled using publicly available inputs as part of their fair value.
The Groups credit risk was therefore primarily attributable to its trade receivables and contract assets.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Note 16 provides further details regarding the recovery of tradereceivables.
Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern.
The capital structure of the Group as at 31 December 2018 consists of net debt, as disclosed in note 26, and equity attributable to the owners of the parent, comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk management Overview of banking facilities A new multi-currency committed bank facility was entered into on 17 January 2018 to assist with the acquisition of GKN, which replaced the previous bank facility of US$1.25 billion.
On 29 October 2018, 663 million of the new term loan was surplus to requirements, and therefore cancelled, because change of control clauses on the bonds were not exercised by the relevant bondholders.
Cash, deposits and marketable securities amounted to 415 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 16 million and are considered together with loans and borrowings to arrive at the Group net debt position of 3,482 million 31 December 2017: 572million, shown in note 26.
The combination of this cash and the headroom on the new facility allows the Directors to consider that the Group has sufficient access to liquidity for its current needs.
The Board takes careful consideration of counterparty risk with banks when deciding where to place cash on deposit.
Covenants As with previous facilities the new facility has two financial covenants being a net debt to adjusted EBITDA covenant and an interest cover covenant, both of which are tested half yearly in June and December.
The EBITDA covenant test is set at 3.5x leverage for each of the half yearly measurement dates for the remainder of the term of the facility.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 it was 2.3x 31 December 2017: 1.9x, showing reasonable headroom compared to the covenant test.
The interest cover covenant is set at 4.0x throughout the life of the facility and was 11.6x at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 19.6x, affording comfortable headroom compared to the covenant test.
174 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Bonds The GKN net debt at acquisition included three capital market borrowings totalling 1.1 billion.
Details are in the table below: Notional Cross-currency Interest rate amount Coupon swaps on swaps Maturity date m % p. a. million % p. a. October 2019 350 6.75% US$578 6.80% September 2022 450 5.375% US$373 5.70% 284 3.87% May 2032 300 3.375% n a n a The series of cross-currency swaps which were acquired with GKN had a fair value liability at the date of acquisition of 109 million.
At 31 December 2018 they were valued at a liability of 199 million, the rise being predominantly due to the change in foreign exchange rates.
The bonds remain within the Group at 31 December 2018, but to simplify the corporate reporting requirements of the Group, the 2019 bonds were transferred onto the Professional Securities Market in September 2018 and the 2022 and 2032 bonds will transfer during March 2019.
Bond holders and rating agencies no longer require Consolidated Financial Statements for GKN Holdings Limited, but instead will receive the detailed information they require from the Melrose Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The 2022 and 2032 bond holders will have the same guarantees from the Melrose Group companies as those provided to the banks lending in the new bank facility.
The cross-currency swaps are designated as net investment hedges.
The critical terms of the hedges are not perfectly matched against the hedged item in terms of the cost of hedging: this gives rise to ineffectiveness through the Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2018, and could also do so in future reporting periods.
In respect of the cross-currency swaps, for the year ended 31 December 2018, 16 million 31 December 2017: nil was booked through the Income Statement in finance costs, of which 8 million has been treated as an adjusting item note 6.
In addition, there is an 84million charge in losses gains on hedge relationships within Other Comprehensive Income in respect of hedge accounting relationships.
The cross-currency swaps are designated in a net investment hedge accounting relationship against US Dollar and Euro net assets of certain subsidiaries.
The hedged risk of spot rate represents the significant component of the movement and therefore has been recorded in the hedging reserve.
Currency derivatives The following table shows the maturity profile of undiscounted contracted gross cash outflows of derivative financial liabilities used to manage currency risk, being both the cross-currency swaps above and foreign exchange forward contracts used to manage transaction exchange rate risk: 0-1 years 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2018 Foreign exchange forward contracts payments 1,203 624 918 43 2,788 Cross-currency swaps 511 27 603 1,141 Year ended 31 December 2017 Foreign exchange forward contracts payments 51 51 Working capital The Group has a small number of uncommitted working capital programmes, which predominantly relate to the programmes inherited as part of the GKN acquisition.
These programmes provide favourable financing terms on eligible customer receipts and competitive financing terms to suppliers on eligible supplier payments.
Businesses which participate in the receivables working capital programme have the ability to choose whether to receive payment earlier than the normal due date, for specific customers on a non-recourse basis.
Due to the short-term nature of the financing, the interest cost to the Group for this beneficial cash flow is favourable compared to the interest cost of the Groups committed bank facilities.
As at 31 December 2018, the drawings on these facilities were 139 million, compared to 189 million by GKN as at 31 December 2017.
In addition, some suppliers have access to utilise the Groups supplier finance programmes, which are provided by a small number of the Groups banks.
There is no cost to the Group for providing these programmes to its suppliers.
These arrangements do not change the date suppliers are due to be paid by the Group, and therefore there is no additional impact on the Groups liquidity.
These programmes allow suppliers to choose whether they want to accelerate the payment of their invoices, by the financing banks, for an interest cost which is competitive, based off the rating of the Group as determined by the financing banks.
The amounts owed to the banks are presented in trade payables on the Balance Sheet and the cash flows are presented in cash flows from operating activities.
As at 31 December 2018, total facilities were 204 million with drawings of 97 million.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 175 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities using loans Included in interest-bearing loans and borrowings at 31 December 2018, were the following amounts which were designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups subsidiaries in the US and Europe and were being used to reduce the exposure to the foreign exchange risks.
Borrowings in local currency designated as hedges of net investments: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m US Dollar 1,118 462 Euro 363 The foreign exchange movement on these borrowings, which is recorded in currency translation on net investments within Other Comprehensive Income was 54 million.
Finance cost risk management The bank margin on the bank facility depends on the Group leverage, and ranges from 0.75% to 2.0% on the term loan, and 0.95% to 2.25% on the revolving credit facility.
As at 31 December 2018 the margin was 1.4% on the term loan and 1.65% on the revolving credit facility 31 December 2017: 1.35% on the Melrose committed bank debt.
The Group holds interest rate swap instruments to fix the cost of LIBOR.
The policy of the Board is to hedge approximately 70% of the interest rate exposure of the Group.
Given the recent restructuring of the bonds and noting that the 2019 bonds mature this year, the Group is in the process of increasing the interest rate swaps to be in line with Group policy from the current position of approximately 50%.
Under the terms of the existing swap arrangements and excluding the bank margin, the Group will pay a weighted average fixed cost of approximately 2% until the swaps terminate on 17 January 2023.
The average cost of the debt for the new enlarged Group is expected to be approximately 3.8% over the next 12 months.
The interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and were highly effective throughout 2018.
The fair value of the contracts as at 31 December 2018 was a liability of 6 million 31 December 2017: asset of 8 million.
The net charge of 14 million for the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: credit of 1 million being the movement in the year, was booked to gains losses on hedge relationships within Other Comprehensive Income.
Due to some of the minor critical terms of the interest rate swaps and the hedged items not being perfectly matched, this could give rise to ineffectiveness through the Income Statement in future periods.
This is not expected to be material and no ineffectiveness was booked through the Income Statement in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis Assuming the net debt, inclusive of interest rate swaps, held as at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year, a one percentage point rise in market interest rates for all currencies would decrease profit before tax by the following amounts: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Sterling 10 US Dollar 4 1 Euro 1 Exchange rate risk management The Group trades in various countries around the world and is exposed to movements in a number of foreign currencies.
The Group therefore carries exchange rate risk that can be categorised into three types, transaction, translation and disposal related risk as described in the paragraphs below.
The Melrose policy is designed to protect against the majority of the cash risks but not the non-cash risks.
The most common exchange rate risk is the transaction risk the Group takes when it invoices a customer or purchases from suppliers in a different currency to the underlying functional currency of the business.
The Melrose policy is to review transactional foreign exchange exposures and place contracts quarterly on a rolling basis.
To the extent the cash flows associated with a transactional foreign exchange risk are committed Melrose will hedge 100%.
For forecast cash flows, Melrose hedges a proportion of the expected cash flows with the percentage being hedged lowering as the time horizon lengthens.
The average time horizons are longer for GKN Aerospace, GKN Automotive and GKN Powder Metallurgy to reflect the long-term nature of the contracts within these divisions.
Typically the Group hedges around 90% of foreign exchange exposures expected over the next year, and approximately 60% to 70% of exposures between one and two years.
This policy does not eliminate the cash risk but does bring some certainty to it.
The translation rate risk is the effect on the Group results in the period due to the movement of exchange rates used to translate foreign results into Sterling from one period to the next.
No specific exchange instruments are used to protect against the translation risk because it is a non-cash risk to the Group, unless foreign currency is converted to Sterling.
However, the Group has debt drawn in Euros and USDollars, and the hedge of having debt drawn in these currencies funding the trading units with US Dollars or Euro functional currencies protects against some of the Balance Sheet and banking covenant translation risk.
176 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Lastly, and potentially most significantly for Melrose, exchange rate risk arises when a business that is predominantly based in a foreign currency is sold.
The proceeds for those businesses may be received in a foreign currency and therefore an exchange rate risk may arise on conversion of foreign currency proceeds into Sterling, for instance to pay a dividend or Capital Return to shareholders.
Protection against this risk is considered on a case-by-case basis.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group held foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate expected exchange rate fluctuations on future cash flows from sales to customers and purchases from suppliers.
A small proportion of these contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges within the Nortek Air & Security and Other Industrial reporting segments.
Contracts where hedge accounting was applied had a fair value liability as at 31 December 2018 of 2 million 31 December 2017: asset of 5 million.
These contracts all mature between January 2019 and December 2019.
The fair value of all foreign exchange forward contracts across the Group was a liability at31December 2018 of 194 million 31 December 2017: asset of 5 million.
The change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts recognised in losses gains on hedging relationships, net of recycling, within Other Comprehensive Income was a charge of 1 million 2017: credit of 4 million.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks are defined by IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The following table details the transactional impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group operating profit caused by a 10% strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling compared to the year-end spot rate.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a notable impact are noted here: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m US Dollar 10 2 Euro 6 1 The following table details the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group equity caused by a 10% strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m US Dollar 32 10 Euro 1 2 In addition, the change in equity due to a 10% strengthening of the US Dollar against Sterling for the translation of net investment hedging instruments would be a decrease of 186 million 2017: decrease 51 million and for Euro, a decrease of 62 million 2017: nil.
However, there would be no overall effect on equity because there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swap and cross-currency swap contracts are measured using yield curves derived from quoted interest and foreign exchange rates.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 177 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Hedge accounted derivatives The following table sets out details of the Groups material hedging instruments where hedge accounting is applied at the balance sheet date: Average fixed rate Notional principal Fair value assets liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Hedging Instruments % % m m m m Pay fixed, receive floating interest rate swaps assets Within one year 0.96% 0.94% 393 428 6 4 In one to two years 0.99% 0.95% 303 376 2 2 In two to five years 0.93% 0.96% 228 256 2 After five years Total 8 8 Pay fixed, receive floating interest rate swaps liabilities Within one year 1.81% 379 1 In one to two years 2.37% 946 3 In two to five years 2.27% 1,301 10 After five years Total 14 Pay fixed, receive fixed cross-currency swaps Within one year 5.65% 1,001 101 In one to two years 4.85% 548 3 In two to five years 4.85% 548 95 After five years Total 199 Derivative and financial assets and liabilities are presented within the Balance Sheet as: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets 26 4 Current assets 15 10 Non-current liabilities 227 Current liabilities 204 1 The change in fair value of interest rate swaps was a 14 million charge 2017: 1 million credit which is discussed in the finance cost risk management section.
All hedging instruments are booked in the Balance Sheet as derivative financial assets or derivative financial liabilities.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices and they are therefore categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and out of the different fair value hierarchy levels at the date the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer to occur.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
The following table sets out details of the Groups material hedged items at the balance sheet date where hedge accounting is applied: Change in fair value for calculating Balance in hedging reserve for ineffectiveness continuing hedges 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Hedged items Floating rate borrowings interest risk 14 1 6 8 Net assets of designated investments 237 84 There is no balance held in the cash flow hedge reserve from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.
178 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 25.
Issued capital and reserves 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Share Capital m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid 4,858,254,963 31 December 2017: 1,941,200,503 Ordinary Shares of 48 7p each 31 December 2017: 48 7p each 333 133 12,831 31 December 2017: 12,831 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan Shares of 1 each 333 133 The rights of each class of share are described in the Directors Report.
On 19 April 2018, 2,469 million ordinary shares were issued as a result of the acquisition of GKN.
Further issues of share capital totalling 448 million took place between 19 April 2018 and 30 June 2018 in order to purchase the remaining non-controlling interest of GKN.
Translation reserve The Translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than Sterling and exchange gains or losses on the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Hedging reserve The Hedging reserve represents the cumulative fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments for which cash flow hedge and net investment hedge accounting has been applied.
Merger reserve and Other reserves The Merger reserve represents the excess of fair value over nominal value of shares issued in consideration for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Other reserves comprise accumulated adjustments in respect of Group reconstructions.
Cash flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations 1 Adjusted operating profit 6 847 279 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 238 31 Amortisation of computer software and development costs 44 4 Share of adjusted operating profit of equity accounted investments 59 Restructuring costs paid and movements in provisions 207 74 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 102 4 Increase in inventories 108 8 Decrease in receivables 181 8 Decrease in payables 159 16 Acquisition costs and associated transaction taxes 125 8 Tax paid 66 16 Interest paid 111 16 Incentive scheme tax related payments 148 Net cash from operating activities 373 32 1 See note 6 for reconciliation of operating loss to adjusted operating profit.
Net debt reconciliation Net debt consists of interest-bearing loans and borrowings excluding any acquisition related fair value adjustments, cross-currency swaps and cash and cash equivalents.
Currency denominated balances within net debt are translated to Sterling at swapped rates where hedged by cross-currency swaps.
Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure as it is not defined in IFRS.
The most directly comparable IFRS measure is the aggregate of interest-bearing loans and borrowings current and non-current and cash and cash equivalents.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 179 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 26.
Cash flow statement continued A reconciliation from the most directly comparable IFRS measure to net debt is given below: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year 377 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year 3,378 588 External debt 3,755 588 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 415 16 3,340 572 Adjustments: Impact of cross-currency swaps 199 Non-cash acquisition fair value adjustments 57 Net debt 3,482 572 The table below shows the key components of the movement in net debt: At 31 December Other non-cash Effect of foreign At 31 December 2017 Cash flow Acquisitions movements exchange 2018 m m m m m m External debt 588 1,732 1,430 49 54 3,755 Impact of cross-currency swaps 10 109 16 84 199 Non-cash acquisition fair value adjustments 73 16 57 588 1,722 1,466 17 138 3,897 Cash and cash equivalents 16 1,802 1,401 2 415 Net debt 572 80 2,867 17 140 3,482 27.
Commitments and contingencies Amounts payable under finance leases: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Present value of minimum lease payments m m Amounts payable: Within one year 5 After one year but within five years 22 Over five years 30 Present value of lease obligations 57 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments m m Amounts payable: Within one year 8 After one year but within five years 28 Over five years 48 Less: future finance charges 27 Present value of lease obligations 57 Analysed as: Amounts due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 5 Amount due for settlement after one year 52 Present value of lease obligations 57 It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term is ten years.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
180 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 27.
Commitments and contingencies continued The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
Future total minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Amounts payable: Within one year 94 18 After one year but within five years 296 48 Over five years 320 31 710 97 The Group leases properties, plant, machinery and vehicles for operational purposes.
Property leases vary in length.
Plant, machinery and vehicle leases typically run for periods of up to five years.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2018, there were commitments of 137 million 31 December 2017: 9 million relating to the acquisition of new plant andmachinery.
Related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
In the ordinary course of business sales and purchases of goods take place between subsidiaries and equity accounted investment companies priced on an arms length basis.
Sales by subsidiaries to equity accounted investments in the year ended 31 December 2018 totalled 28 million 2017: nil.
Purchases by subsidiaries from equity accounted investments in the year ended 31 December 2018 totalled 14 million 2017: nil.
At 31 December 2018, amounts receivable from equity accounted investments totalled 6 million 31December 2017: nil and amounts payable to equity accounted investments totalled 2 million 31 December 2017: nil.
Sales to and purchases from Group companies are priced on an arms length basis and generally are settled on 30-day terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on page 96.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 3 3 Share-based payments 9 7 12 10 29.
Post Balance Sheet events On 6 March 2019 the Group announced the agreement to sell the Walterscheid Powertrain Group to One Equity Partners, a US-based private equity firm.
In addition the Group announced the completion of the sale of the minority 43.57% interest in Socit Anonyme Belge fide Constructions Aronautiques SABCA, previously held within the Aerospace reporting segment, to SABCAs majority shareholder, Dassault Belgique Aviation S. A.
The sale of the Walterscheid Powertrain Group is subject to the customary regulatory conditions and is expected to complete in the first half of this year.
The combined net proceeds of the sales are approximately 200 million.
Contingent liabilities As a result of acquisitions made by the Group, certain contingent legal and warranty liabilities have been identified as part of the fair value review of these acquisition Balance Sheets.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the timing and ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been included in the Balance Sheet where they existed at the time of acquisition and hence were recognised in accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations.
Where a provision has been recognised, information regarding the different categories of such liabilities and the amount and timing of outflows is included within note 20.
Given the nature of the Groups business many of the Groups products have a large installed base, and any recalls or reworks related to such products could be particularly costly.
The costs of product recalls or reworks are not always covered by insurance.
Recalls or reworks may have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The Group has contingent liabilities representing guarantees and contract bonds given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
The Group does not have any other significant contingent liabilities.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 181
