Financial statements Glossary Alternative Performance Measures APMs In accordance with the Guidelines on APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA, additional information is provided on the APMs used by the Group below.
In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS.
These additional measures commonly referred to as APMs provide additional information on the performance of the business and trends to stakeholders.
These measures are consistent with those used internally, and are considered important to understanding the financial performance and financial health of the Group.
APMs are considered to be an important measure to monitor how the businesses are performing because this provides a meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis and achieves consistency and comparability between reporting periods.
These APMs may not be directly comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies and they are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
Income Statement Measures APM APM Adjusted revenue and Annualised adjusted revenue Adjusted operating profit and Annualised adjusted operatingprofit Closest equivalent statutory measure Revenue.
Closest equivalent statutory measure 1 Operating profit loss.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Share of revenue of equity accounted investments note 5 and full period Reconciling items to statutory measure impact of acquisitions.
Adjusting items note 6 and full period impact of acquisitions.
Definition and purpose Definition and purpose Adjusted revenue includes the Groups share of revenue of equity The Group uses adjusted profit measures to provide a useful and more accounted investments.
Annualised adjusted revenue reflects the Groups comparable measure of the ongoing performance of the Group.
Adjusted adjusted revenue as if all acquisitions in the period had occurred on the measures are reconciled to statutory measures by removing adjusting first day of the financial year.
items, the nature of which are disclosed above and further detailed in note 6.
This enables comparability between reporting periods.
Annualised adjusted operating profit reflects the Group adjusted operating profit as if all acquisitions in the period had occurred on the first Year ended Year ended day of the financial year.
31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Year ended Year ended Revenue m m 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Revenue 8,605 2,092 Operating profit m m Share of revenue of equity accounted Operating loss 392 7 investments 497 3 Adjusting items note 6 1,239 286 Adjusted revenue 9,102 2,095 Adjusted operating profit 847 279 Full year impact of acquisitions 3,145 Full year impact of acquisitions 248 Annualised adjusted revenue 12,247 2,095 Annualised adjusted operating profit 1,095 279 APM Adjusting items APM Adjusted operating margin and Annualised adjusted Closest equivalent statutory measure operatingmargin None.
Closest equivalent statutory measure Reconciling items to statutory measure 2 Operating margin.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Definition and purpose Share of revenue of equity accounted investments note 5, adjusting Those items which the Group excludes from its adjusted profit metrics items note 6 and full period impact of acquisitions.
in order to present a further measure of the Groups performance.
Definition and purpose These include items which are significant in size or volatility or by nature Adjusted operating margin represents Adjusted operating profit as a are non-trading or non-recurring, and any item released to the Income percentage of Adjusted revenue.
Annualised adjusted operating margin Statement that was previously a fair value item booked on an acquisition.
represents Annualised adjusted operating profit as a percentage of This provides a meaningful comparison of how the business is managed Annualised adjusted revenue.
and measured on a day-to-day basis and provides consistency and comparability between reporting periods.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 193 Glossary Continued Income Statement Measures continued APM APM Adjusted EBITDA, Annualised adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted profit after tax and Annualised adjusted profit after tax Annualisedadjusted EBITDA for covenant purposes Closest equivalent statutory measure Closest equivalent statutory measure Profit loss after tax.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Reconciling items to statutory measure Adjusting items note 6 and full period impact of acquisitions.
Adjusting items note 6, depreciation of property, plant and equipment Definition and purpose note 13 and amortisation of computer software and development costs Profit after tax but before the impact of the adjusting items.
As discussed note 11, share of depreciation of property, plant and equipment and above, adjusted profit measures are used to provide a useful and more amortisation of computer software and development costs of equity comparable measure of the ongoing performance of the Group.
Adjusted accounted investments, as well as full period impact of acquisitions measures are reconciled to statutory measures by removing adjusting items, andadjustments for covenant purposes.
the nature of which are disclosed above and further detailed in note 6.
Definition and purpose As discussed above, the Group uses adjusted profit measures to provide a Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and impairment of property, useful and comparable measure of the ongoing performance of the Group.
plant and equipment and before the amortisation and impairment of computer software and development costs.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Adjusted EBITDA and Annualised adjusted EBITDA are measures used 2018 2017 tovalue individual businesses as part of the Buy, Improve, Sell Melrose Profit after tax m m strategy model and by certain external stakeholders to Loss after tax 475 24 measureperformance.
Adjusting items note 6 1,014 215 Year ended Year ended Adjusted profit after tax 539 191 31 December 31 December Full year impact of acquisitions 141 2018 2017 Adjusted EBITDA m m Annualised adjusted profit after tax 680 191 Adjusted operating profit 847 279 Depreciation of property, plant and APM equipment note 13 238 31 Adjusted tax rate Closest equivalent statutory measure Amortisation of computer software and Effective tax rate.
development costs note 11 44 4 Share of depreciation and amortisation Reconciling items to statutory measure of equity accounted investments 18 Adjusting items, adjusting tax items and the tax impact of adjusting items note 6 and note 8.
Adjusted EBITDA 1,147 314 Full year impact of acquisitions 378 Definition and purpose Annualised adjusted EBITDA 1,525 314 The income tax charge for the Group excluding adjusting tax, the net effect of new tax legislation in the US enacted in December 2017 and the Other adjustments required for covenant tax impact of adjusting items, divided by adjusted profit before tax.
purposes 33 This measure is a useful indicator of the ongoing tax rate for the Group.
Annualised adjusted EBITDA for covenant purposes 1,492 314 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 APM Adjusted tax rate m m Adjusted profit before tax and Annualised adjusted profit beforetax Tax credit per Income Statement 75 4 Closest equivalent statutory measure Adjusting tax items 27 Profit loss before tax.
Tax impact of adjusting items 239 44 Reconciling items to statutory measure Adjusted tax charge 164 67 Adjusting items note 6 and full period impact of acquisitions.
Adjusted profit before tax 703 258 Adjusted tax rate 23.3% 25.9% Definition and purpose Profit before the impact of adjusting items and tax.
As discussed above, adjusted profit measures are used to provide a useful and more comparable APM measure of the ongoing performance of the Group.
Adjusted measures are Adjusted basic earnings per share reconciled to statutory measures by removing adjusting items, the nature of Closest equivalent statutory measure which are disclosed above and further detailed in note 6.
As discussed above, the Group uses adjusted profit measures to provide a Reconciling items to statutory measure useful and comparable measure of the ongoing performance of the Group.
Year ended Year ended Definition and purpose 31 December 31 December Profit after tax attributable to owners of the Parent and before the impact 2018 2017 Profit before tax m m of adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Loss before tax 550 28 Adjusting items note 6 1,253 286 Adjusted profit before tax 703 258 Full year impact of acquisitions 183 Annualised adjusted profit before tax 886 258 194 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Income Statement Measures continued Balance Sheet Measures APM APM Adjusted diluted earnings per share Working capital Closest equivalent statutory measure Closest equivalent statutory measure Diluted earnings per share.
Inventories, trade and other receivables less trade and other payables.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Reconciling items to statutory measure Adjusting items notes 6 and 10.
Definition and purpose Definition and purpose Profit after tax attributable to owners of the Parent and before the impact Working capital comprises inventories, current and non-current trade and of adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary other receivables and current and non-current trade and other payables.
shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of any APM potentially dilutive options.
Net debt The Board considers this to be a key measure of performance when all Closest equivalent statutory measure businesses are held for the complete reporting period.
Cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance related derivative instruments.
APM Annualised adjusted diluted earnings per share Reconciling items to statutory measure Closest equivalent statutory measure Reconciliation of net debt note 26.
Definition and purpose Reconciling items to statutory measure Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing loans Adjusting items notes 6 and 10 and full period impact of acquisitions.
and borrowings and cross-currency swaps but excludes non-cash acquisition fair value adjustments.
Definition and purpose Annualised profit after tax attributable to owners of the Parent and before Net debt is one measure that could be used to indicate the strength of the the impact of adjusting items, divided by the number of ordinary shares in Groups Balance Sheet position and is a useful measure of the issue at 31 December 2018 adjusted for the effects of any potentially indebtedness of the Group.
APM The Board considers this to be a key measure of performance when Leverage of net debt to Annualised adjusted EBITDA adjusted results include businesses owned for part of a period.
Closest equivalent statutory measure None.
Year ended 31 December Reconciling items to statutory measure 2018 Not applicable.
Annualised adjusted diluted earnings per share m Annualised adjusted profit after tax 680 Definition and purpose Attributable to: Bank covenant definition of net debt divided by Annualised adjusted EBITDA for bank covenant purposes.
Owners of the parent 670 This measure is used for bank covenant testing.
Non-controlling interests 10 Diluted number of shares at 31 December 2018 million 4,858 Annualised adjusted diluted earnings per share 13.8p APM Interest cover Closest equivalent statutory measure None.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Not applicable.
Definition and purpose Adjusted EBITDA as a multiple of net interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts, being 11.6x in year ended 31 December 2018 2017: 19.6x.
This measure is used for bank covenant testing.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 195 Glossary Continued Balance Sheet Measures continued Cash flow measures continued APM APM Bank covenant definition of net debt at average rates Free cash flow Closest equivalent statutory measure Closest equivalent statutory measure Cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing loans and borrowings Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents.
and finance related derivative instruments.
Reconciling items to statutory measure Reconciling items to statutory measure Acquisition related cash flows, dividends paid to owners of the parent, Impact of foreign exchange and adjustments for bank covenant purposes.
foreign exchange and other non-cash movements.
Definition and purpose Definition and purpose Net debt as above is presented in the Balance Sheet translated at year Free cash flow represents cash generated from trading after all costs end exchange rates.
including restructuring, pension contributions, tax and interest payments.
For bank covenant testing purposes net debt is converted using average APM exchange rates for the year.
Capital expenditure capex 31 December 31 December Closest equivalent statutory measure 2018 2017 None.
Net debt m m Reconciling items to statutory measure Net debt at closing rates note 26 3,482 572 Not applicable.
Impact of foreign exchange 86 23 Net debt at average rates 3,396 595 Definition and purpose Calculated as the purchase of property, plant and equipment and Other adjustments required for covenant computer software and expenditure on capitalised development costs purposes 11 during the year, excluding any assets acquired as part of a business Bank covenant definition of net debt combination.
at average rates 3,407 595 Leverage 2.3x 1.9x APM Capital expenditure to depreciation ratio Cash flow measures Closest equivalent statutory measure None.
APM Adjusted operating cash flow pre-capex and Adjusted Reconciling items to statutory measure operating cash flow conversion Not applicable.
Closest equivalent statutory measure Definition and purpose Net cash from operating activities.
Capital expenditure divided by depreciation of property, plant and Reconciling items to statutory measure equipment and amortisation of computer software and development costs.
APM Definition and purpose Dividend per share Adjusted operating cash flow pre-capex is calculated as adjusted Closest equivalent statutory measure EBITDA attributable to subsidiaries less movements in working capital.
Adjusted operating cash flow pre-capex conversion is adjusted Reconciling items to statutory measure operating cash flow pre-capex divided by adjusted EBITDA attributable Not applicable.
Definition and purpose This measure provides additional useful information in respect of cash Amounts payable by way of dividends in terms of pence per share.
generation and is consistent with how business performance is measuredinternally.
1 Operating profit loss is not defined within IFRS but is a widely accepted profit measure being 31 December 31 December profit loss before finance costs, finance income and tax.
2018 2017 2 Operating margin is not defined within IFRS but is a widely accepted profit measure being 1 Adjusted operating cash flow m m derived from operating profit loss divided by revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA 1,147 314 Share of depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted investments 18 Share of adjusted operating profit of equity accounted investments 59 Adjusted EBITDA attributable to subsidiaries 1,070 314 Change in inventories 108 8 Change in receivables 181 8 Change in payables 159 16 Positive non-cash impact from lossmaking contracts 63 Adjusted operating cash flow pre-capex 921 298 Adjusted operating cash flow conversion 86% 95% 196 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018
