Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate 15.
That, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should 2006 the Act, the directors of the Company the Directors take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank, solicitor, be and are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot accountant, fund manager or other independent financial shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or adviser authorised under the Financial Services and to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights : Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 111,045,827: and or, if not, another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser.
B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of If you have sold or otherwise transferred or sell or otherwise 222,091,655 such amount to be reduced by the transfer all of your shares in Melrose Industries PLC the aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants Company, please send this document, together with the made under paragraph A of this resolution in connection accompanying form of proxy, as soon as possible to the with an offer by way of a rights issue: purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the Street, London EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on 9 May 2019 for the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as purposes set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be the Directors otherwise consider necessary, proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 16 to 19 and so that the Directors may impose any limits or inclusive as special resolutions.
restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury Ordinary resolutions shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of any the financial year ended 31 December 2018, together with territory or any other matter, such authorities to expire at the the Directors Report, Strategic Report and the Auditors conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting Report on those financial statements.
after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year business on 30 June 2020, but, in each case, so that the ended 31 December 2018, as set out on pages 92 to 112 of Company may make offers or agreements before the the Companys 2018 Annual Report.
authority expires which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after the authority expires, 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.05 pence per ordinary share for and so that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in the year ended 31 December 2018. pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding 4.
To re-elect Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
To re-elect David Roper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 15, the Directors be and are generally empowered to allot equity securities 7.
To re-elect Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to 8.
To re-elect Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
the authorities granted by resolution 15 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, in 9.
To re-elect Liz Hewitt as a Director of the Company.
each case as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any 10.
To re-elect David Lis as a Director of the Company.
such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 11.
To re-elect Archie G. Kane as a Director of the Company.
A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment 12.
To elect Charlotte Twyning as a Director of the Company.
pursuant to the authority granted under paragraph B of 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold resolution 15, such power shall be limited to the allotment office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which a rights issue only : accounts are laid.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as 14.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the may be practicable to their existing holdings: and remuneration of the auditor of the Company.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 197 Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued B to the allotment otherwise than in circumstances set out in 18.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities pursuant authorised to make one or more market purchases within the to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 15 or meaning of section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares in the sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of capital of the Company provided that: 16,656,874, A the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares such powers to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next authorised to be purchased is 485,825,496: Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if B the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2020, but, in each share is the nominal value of an ordinary share at the time case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements of such purchase: before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and or treasury shares sold after the C the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share power expires and so that the Directors may allot equity is not more than the higher of: securities and or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such i 105% of the average of the middle-market quotation for offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List by this authority has expired.
of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the 17.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 15 and in addition to ordinary share is purchased: and any power granted under resolution 16, the Directors be and are generally empowered to allot equity securities as defined ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authorities the highest current independent bid on the trading granted by resolution 15 and or to sell ordinary shares held by venue where the purchase is carried out, in each case, the Company as treasury shares for cash, in each case as if exclusive of expenses: section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or D this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the sale, provided that this power shall be: Companys next Annual General Meeting after this A limited to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business the authority granted by sub-paragraph A of resolution 15 on 30 June 2020: or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 16,656,874: and E the Company may make a contract of purchase of ordinary shares under this authority which would or might be B used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, if the authority is to be used within six months of the original and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance transaction a transaction which the Directors determine to of any such contract: and be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind F any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority contemplated by the Statement of Principles on may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published Company, depending on which course of action is by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of of the Annual General Meeting, shareholders at the time.
such powers to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if 19.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2020, but, in each may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements Recommendation before the power expires which would or might require equity The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed at securities to be allotted and or treasury shares sold after the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company the power expires and so that the Directors may allot equity and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors securities and or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such unanimously recommend that ordinary shareholders vote in favour offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred of all of the resolutions proposed, as the Directors intend to do in by this authority has expired.
respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the Board Jonathon Crawford Company Secretary 5 April 2019 Registered Office: 11th Floor The Colmore Building 20 Colmore Circus Queensway Birmingham West Midlands B4 6AT 198 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions Resolution 12 Election of Director Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions, In accordance with the Articles, Charlotte Twyning is standing for which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more election as a Director of the Company following her appointment than half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
to the Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
Biographical details Resolutions 16 to 19 inclusive are proposed as special resolutions, for Charlotte Twyning can be found on page 73 of the 2018 which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, Annual Report.
atleast three-quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour Resolution 13 Re-Appointment of Auditor of the resolution.
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold Resolution 1 Receipt of 2018 Annual Report office until the next such meeting.
and financial statements The Directors are required to lay the Companys financial The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, statements, the Strategic Report and the Directors and auditors independence and objectivity of the existing external auditor, reports on those financial statements collectively, the 2018 Annual Deloitte LLP, on behalf of the Board, and concluded that the Report before shareholders each year at the Annual General external auditor was in all respects effective.
This resolution proposes the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Resolution 2 Approval of Directors remuneration report until the conclusion of the next AGM.
The Directors remuneration report the Directors Remuneration Resolution 14 Authority to agree auditors remuneration Report is presented in three sections: This resolution seeks authority for the Audit Committee to the introduction to the Directors Remuneration report: determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares Committee: and This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors the Annual Report on Remuneration.
the authority to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the Company The introduction to the Directors Remuneration report, set out on Rights, pursuant to section 551 of the Act Section 551 page 92 of the 2018 Annual Report, provides an introduction to, and authority.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the an overview of, the remainder of the Directors Remuneration report.
resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration 111,045,827, being approximately one-third of the Companys Committee, set out on pages 93 to 95 of the 2018 Annual Report, issued ordinary share capital as at 4 April 2019 being the last summarises, for the year ended 31 December 2018, the major business day prior to the publication of this notice.
decisions taken on Directors remuneration, any substantial In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, changes relating to Directors remuneration made during the year paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority and the context in which those changes occurred and decisions to allot shares in the Company or grant Rights in connection with that have been taken.
a rights issue up to aggregate nominal amount of 222,091,655, The Annual Report on Remuneration, set out on pages 92 to 112 representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued of the 2018 Annual Report, provides details of the remuneration ordinary share capital as at 4 April 2019.
This resolution provides paid to Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, that such amount shall be reduced by the aggregate nominal including base salary, taxable benefits, short-term incentives, amount of any allotments or grants under paragraph A. long-term incentives vested in the year, pension-related benefits, The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
any other items in the nature of remuneration and any sum s recovered or withheld during the year in respect of amounts If approved, the Section 551 authority shall, unless renewed, paid in earlier years.
revoked or varied by the Company, expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, The Directors Remuneration Report is subject to an annual at the close of business on 30 June 2020.
The exception to this advisory shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution.
is that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights after the Resolution 2 is to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
authority has expired in connection with an offer or agreement Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend made or entered into before the authority expired.
The Directors The Board is recommending, and shareholders are being asked have no present intention to exercise the Section 551 authority.
to approve, the declaration of a final dividend of 3.05p per ordinary Resolutions 16 to 17 Partial disapplication share for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The final dividend of pre-emption rights will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 20 May 2019 to These resolutions seek shareholder approval to grant the Directors the holders of ordinary shares whose names are recorded on the the power to allot equity securities of the Company pursuant to register of members of the Company at the close of business sections 570 and 573 of the Act the Section 570 and 573 power on 5 April 2019. without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion Resolutions 4 to 11 inclusive Re-election of Directors to their existing shareholdings.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the The power is limited to allotments for cash in connection with Code and the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the Directors every Director will stand for re-election at the AGM with the consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas exception of Charlotte Twyning, who is standing for election.
requirements and otherwise for cash up to a maximum nominal Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 72 value of 33,313,748, representing approximately 10% of the to 73 of the 2018 Annual Report.
All of the Non-executive Directors Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 4 April 2019 standing for re-election are currently considered independent being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 199 Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued The Company intends to only use the shorter notice period where The Directors intend to adhere to the guidelines set out in the this flexibility is merited by the purpose of the meeting and is Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles as updated in considered to be in the interests of shareholders generally, and March2015 and not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive not as a matter of routine.
AGMs will continue to be held on basis pursuant to a relevant authority in resolutions 16 or 17: at least 21clear days notice.
in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in any The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, one-year period, whether or not in connection with an when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
acquisition or specified capital investment: or Explanatory notes as to the proxy, in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the Companys voting and attendance procedures at the issued ordinary share capital in a rolling three-year period, Annual General Meeting AGM in each case other than in connection with an acquisition 1.
The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled or specified capital investment which is announced to attend the AGM and are entitled to vote.
A member entitled contemporaneously with the allotment or which has taken to attend, speak and vote at the AGM is also entitled to appoint place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak in the announcement of the allotment.
and vote at the AGM in his her place.
Such a member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is If approved, the Section 570 and 573 power shall apply until the appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2020.
The exception to this is that the Directors may allot equity securities after the 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a power has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with or entered into before the power expired.
The Directors have no any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed present intention to exercise the Section 570 and 573 power.
or a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is received by the Companys registrars at the address specified Resolution 18 Authority to purchase own shares on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Company of a day that is not a working day before the stated time for the authority to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 holding the meeting or, in the event of an adjournment, not less and 701 of the Act.
than 48 hours before the stated time of the adjourned meeting This authority is limited to an aggregate maximum number of excluding any part of a day which is not a working day.
485,825,496 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude a issued ordinary share capital as at 4 April 2019. member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
The maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share will 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person be an amount which is not more than the higher of: i 5% above nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share as rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone the ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out in each exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a case, exclusive of expenses.
right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in If approved, the authority shall, unless varied, revoked or renewed, relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2020.
The paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by the holders of Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the ordinary shares in the Company.
powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the number Resolution 19 Notice period for general meetings other of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the than AGMs Companys register of members by 6.30pm on 8 May 2019 or, This resolution seeks shareholder approval to allow the Company in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days, to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear excluding any day which is not a working day, before the time days notice.
In accordance with the Act, as amended by the of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the notice members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
In accordance with the Act, the 5.
As at 4 April 2019 being the last business day prior to the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital shareholders for that meeting in order to be able to call a general consists of 4,858,254,963 ordinary shares of 48 7p each, meeting on less than 21 clear days notice.
200 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Shareholder information Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders Explanatory notes as to the proxy, requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses voting and attendance procedures at the in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Annual General Meeting AGM continued Company is required to place a statement on a website under 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST statement available on the website.
The business which may Manual available at www.
CREST Personal be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, publish on a website.
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action 12.
Any member holding ordinary shares attending the meeting on their behalf.
has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information question: and or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Company or the good order of the meeting that the question Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the be answered.
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, 13.
Voting at the AGM will be by poll.
The Chairman will invite each be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent shareholder, corporate representative and proxy present at the IDRA19 by 11.00 am on 8 May 2019.
For this purpose, the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Chairman will cast the votes for which he has been appointed Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected during the meeting.
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner Once the results have been verified by the Companys registrar, prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions Equiniti, they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority, to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated announced through a Regulatory Information Service and to the appointee through other means.
will be available to view on the Companys website.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 14.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section sponsors, or voting service providers should note that 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special 15.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal Notice of AGM or any related documents including the form system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility other than those expressly stated.
of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, 16.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his Companys registered office during normal business hours her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is date of this notice until the date of the AGM and at the place transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular of the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where A copies of all service agreements under which Directors applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers of the Company are employed by the Company or any are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST subsidiaries: and Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
B a copy of the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 17.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. at www.
In order to register your vote online, you will need to enter the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Reference Number which are set out on the enclosed form of corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all proxy.
The return of the form of proxy by post or registering of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in your vote online will not prevent you from attending the relation to the same shares.
AGM and voting in person, should you wish.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis requirements set out in that section have the right to require the online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts www.
co. uk using your usual user ID and including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit password.
Once logged in simply click View on the that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance My Investments page, click on the link to vote then follow connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold the on screen instructions.
A proxy appointment made office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the those provided or if received after 11.00am on 8 May 2019.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 201
