JPM Mercantile pp65 72. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 65 Shareholder Information Company rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of Notice of Annual General Meeting 1,008,262, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 9th April 2018, provided that this Notice is hereby given that the one hundred authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General and thirty second Annual General Meeting of The Meeting of the Company held in 2019 unless renewed at Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be held at a general meeting prior to such time, save that the Company Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be Wednesday, 23rd May 2018 at 12.00 noon for the granted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the following purposes: Company may allot shares and grant rights in pursuance of 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby Auditors Report for the year ended 31st January 2018. had not expired.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year relevant securities Special Resolution ended 31st January 2018.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby 4.
To reappoint Helen James as a Director of the Company.
empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to 5.
To reappoint Angus Gordon Lennox as a Director of the allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 Company.
of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 or by way of the sale of treasury shares as if 6.
To reappoint Harry Morley as a Director of the Company.
Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 7.
To reappoint Ian Russell as a Director of the Company.
provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount 8.
To reappoint Jeremy Tigue as a Director of the Company.
of 1,008,262, representing approximately 5% of the issued 9.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors to the share capital as at 9th April 2018 at a price of not less than Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry remuneration.
of the general authority conferred by Resolution11 above, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or Special Business: agreements which would or might require equity securities To consider the following resolutions: to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such Authority for sub-division of existing ordinary shares offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not Ordinary Resolution expired.
THAT each of the issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company be sub-divided into ten ordinary Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special shares of 2.5 pence each the New Ordinary Shares having Resolution the rights and being subject to the restrictions and 13.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter obligations set out in the articles of association of the appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Company, such sub-division to be conditional on the New Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the Ordinary Shares being admitted to the Official List of the UK meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued shares on Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from London Stock Exchange expected to be 8.00 a. m. on time to time determine.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution authorised to be purchased shall be that number of 11.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of the generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution of Companys issued share capital as at the date of the any authorities previously granted to the Directors pursuant passing of this resolution: to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to share shall be the nominal value: subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 65 JPM Mercantile pp65 72. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued Notes These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary of the proxy form.
share or unit shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the Company to for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to List for the five business days immediately preceding the the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be rights attaching to different shares held by him.
purchased: or b the price of the last independent trade: 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must or c the highest current independent bid: attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their 22nd November 2019 unless the authority is renewed at discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2019 or at any voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
other general meeting prior to such time: and Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form, no later expiry of such authority which contract will or may be than 12.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such weekends and bank holidays.
authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy pursuant to any such contract.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate Approval of dividend policy Ordinary Resolution or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will 14.
THAT the shareholders approve the Companys dividend be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of policy to continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends.
proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the By order of the Board date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the Jonathan Latter other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to For and on behalf of determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
JPMorgan Funds Limited, Company Secretary 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of 18th April 2018 members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
66 JPM Mercantile pp65 72. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 67 Shareholder Information continued 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the meeting contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting is signed.
rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its members resolutions or members matters of business received by website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct Companys website www.
of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment hold office since the previous AGM: which the members propose to are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of that the Company has been required to publish on its website meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other pursuant to this right.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and attending the meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form.
meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds information.
online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the 16.
As at 9th April 2018 being the latest business day prior to the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members of 94,449,218 Ordinary shares of which 13,788,179 are held in intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: Treasury, representing 14.6% of the shares in issue, carrying one vote and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 80,661,039. any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be 17.
A copy of the current articles of association of the Company and the included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be proposed new articles of association of the Company will be available moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMorgan Funds Limited, reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP, from the date of the constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is Annual Report in which this notice is included up until the close of the frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in Annual General Meeting.
Copies will also be available at Trinity House, hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH, being the place of the Annual General notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must Electronic appointment CREST members be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the the grounds for the request.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 67
