JPM Mercantile pp19 35. qxp 11 04 2018 11:05 Page 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice regulations.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising Financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Reporting Standard 102, the Financial Reporting Standard pages 23 and 24 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge, applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and balanced and understandable, provide the information necessary net return or loss of the Company.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position and The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Annual Report and performance, business model and strategy and that they give Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the total return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to the Companys position and performance, business model and provide these confirmations, and in preparing these financial strategy.
statements, the Directors are required to: The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the consistently: development and performance of the business, and the Company, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties prudent: that it faces.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, comprising The Financial Statements are published on the FRS 102, have been followed, subject to any material www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the departures disclosed and explained in the financial Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website statements: maintained by the Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and continue in business: and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts notify the Companys shareholders in writing about the use, if since they were initially presented to the website.
The accounts are any, of disclosure exemptions in FRS 102 in the preparation of prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from the financial statements legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting For and on behalf of the Board records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Angus Gordon Lennox transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Chairman financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 11th April 2018 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 35
