92 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of and regulations.
accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to The Directors Report and the other sections of this report referred to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International therein include a fair review of the development and performance of the Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards risks and uncertainties that they face.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Nick Varney Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Chief Executive Officer Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable 27 February 2019 and prudent.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared Anne-Francoise Nesmes in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Chief Financial Officer For the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable 27 February 2019 UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements.
Assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern.
Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
