156 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 GLOSSARY Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders, adjusted for exceptional items, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Cluster A group of attractions located in a city close to one another.
Constant currency growth Using 2017 exchange rates.
CWE Conservation, Welfare and Engagement.
The SEA LIFE team that focuses on delivering world class animal welfare throughout our animal care network and developing new guest experiences.
DreamWorks Tours Shreks This attraction is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
EBITDA Profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
EU GDPR EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Exceptional items Due to their nature, certain one-off and non-trading items can be classified as exceptional in order to draw them to the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business performance more accurately.
Existing estate EE EE comprises all attractions other than new openings.
KIRKBI KIRKBI owns 75% of LEGO A S and owns 29.64% of the share capital of Merlin Entertainments plc.
LBC Little BIG City attractions.
These are part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
LCA Licence and Co-operation agreement.
This agreement sets out the rights granted to the Group to use the LEGO and LEGOLAND brands.
LDC LEGOLAND Discovery Centre attractions.
Like for like LFL 2018 LFL growth refers to the growth between 2017 and 2018 on a constant currency basis using 2017 exchange rates and includes all businesses owned and operated before the start of 2017.
Listing Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
LLP LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group.
Merlin Magic Making MMM MMM is the unique resource that sits at the heart of everything Merlin does.
It is our specialist in-house site-search and business development: creative design: production: and project management team.
MMM also pursues acquisition and investment opportunities.
Merlins Magic Wand MMW MMW forms a key element of Merlins Corporate Social Responsibility commitment.
Our partner childrens charity delivers magical experiences around the world to children who are facing challenges of serious illness, disability or adversity.
Midway or Midway attractions The Midway Attractions Operating Group and or the Midway attractions within it.
Midway attractions are typically smaller, indoor attractions located in city centres, resorts or shopping malls.
Net Promoter score How we measure the propensity of our customers to recommend our attractions.
New Business Development NBD NBD relates to attractions that are newly opened or under development for future opening, together with the addition of new accommodation at existing sites.
New openings can include both Midway attractions and new theme parks.
NBD combines with the existing estate to give the full estate of attractions.
Non-core Attractions which Merlin has ceased the operation of during the period.
Operating free cash flow Underlying EBITDA less existing estate capex.
ST STR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP POR ORT T G GO OVE VERNAN RNANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TAT ATE EM ME EN NT TS S OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 157 Organic growth Growth from like for like businesses and new business development at constant currency and accounting standards and excluding growth from acquisitions.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on underlying operating profit after tax.
The capital employed element of the calculation is based on average net operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred tax, derivative financial assets and liabilities, and net debt.
Rooms A single accommodation unit at one of our theme parks, for example a hotel room, lodge or glamping tent.
RPC Revenue per capita, defined as visitor revenue divided by number of visitors.
RTP Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
Second gate A visitor attraction at an existing resort with a separate entrance and for which additional admission fees are charged.
SLC SEA LIFE Centre aquarium attractions.
The Code UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Merlin Way The culture of the Group which encompasses our vision and values.
Top Box The highest level of customer satisfaction that we record in our customer surveys.
Underlying Underlying information presented excludes exceptional items that are classified separately within the financial statements.
Visitors Represents all individual visits to Merlin owned or operated attractions.
Wizard Wants to Know WWTK WWTK is our annual online employee survey.
Terms used Unless otherwise stated, the terms Merlin, Merlin Entertainments, the Group, We and Us refer to the Company Merlin Entertainments plc and, as applicable, its subsidiaries and or interests in joint ventures.
Percentages are calculated based on figures before rounding and are then rounded to one decimal place.
