SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered and other offices The Companys registered office and head office is: One Southampton Row London WC1B 5HA Telephone: 0345 08 08 500 0345 08 08 508 Website: www.
co. uk other subsidiaries of the company are also registered at the same registered office and head office of the company.
registrars The Company has appointed Equiniti Limited to maintain its register of members.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti using the details below in relation to all general enquiries concerning their shareholding: Equiniti Limited1 Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0371 384 2030 International callers: 44 121 415 7047 1.
Equiniti Limited and Equiniti Financial Services Limited are part of the Equiniti group of companies.
Company share registration, employee scheme and pension administration services are provided through Equiniti Limited, which is registered in England and Wales with No.
Investment and general insurance services are provided through Equiniti Financial Services Limited, which is registered in England and Wales with No.
6208699 and is authorised and regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
Lines are open from 8.30 to 5.30pm UK time Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
2019 Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting 21 May 2019 First quarter results 1 May 2019 Half year results 24 July 2019 Third quarter results 23 October 2019 These are preliminary dates and may be subject to change.
Unsolicited mail The Company is required by law to make its share register available on request to unconnected organisations.
As a consequence, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including mail from unauthorised investment firms.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail received, please contact the Mailing Preference Service, an independent organisation whose services are free for consumers.
Further details can be obtained from: Mailing Preference Service MPS Freepost LON 20771 London W1E 0ZT Website: www.
uk 166 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual General Meeting The Companys next Annual General Meeting will take place on 21 May 2019 at the Banks registered office address at One Southampton Row, London WC1B 5HA, at 1:30pm.
The Chairmen of each of the Boards Committees will be present to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and the Chairmen of the various Committees.
Foreward looking statements This annual report contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements typically use terms such as believes, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, may, will, would, could or should or similar terminology.
Any forward-looking statements in this annual report are based on the Companys current expectations and, by their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Companys control, that could cause the Companys actual results and performance to differ materially from any expected future results or performance expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
As a result, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Past performance should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of future results, and no representation or warranty, expressed or implied, is made regarding future performance.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this annual report will be realised.
The Company undertakes no obligation to release the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this annual report that may occur due to any change in its expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this announcement and the Company disclaims any such obligation.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 167 Eneld Borehamwood 10 NEW LOCATIONS Watford Wood Green IN 2018 Edgware Tottenham Court Rd.
Moorgate Harrow Kensington High St. Romford Ilford Kings Road Liverpool St. Uxbridge Earls Court Cheapside Ealing Southall Chiswick Holborn Piccadilly Hounslow Putney Clapham High St. Bexleyheath Staines Clapham Junction Fulham Broadway Wimbledon Kingston Bromley Nottingham Croydon Orpington Sutton Piccadilly Northampton Wolverhampton Sutton Epsom Coldeld Leicester Merry Hill Peterborough Birmingham Solihull Cambridge Northampton Milton Keynes Milton Keynes Centre Oakgrove Luton Aylesbury Colchester Hemel Oxford Chelmsford Hempstead St Albans Basildon High Wycombe Cardi Southend Swindon Bristol Crawley Maidstone Bristol Reading Newbury Bath Canterbury Basingstoke Guildford Ashford Tunbridge Slough Crawley Wells Southampton Windsor Brighton Eastbourne Watford Bath Ashford Putney Oxford Southampton Eneld Borehamwood Watford Wood Green Edgware Tottenham Court Rd.
Moorgate Harrow Kensington High St. Romford Ilford Kings Road Liverpool St. Uxbridge Earls Court Cheapside Ealing Southall Chiswick Holborn Piccadilly Hounslow Putney Clapham High St. Bexleyheath Staines Clapham Junction Fulham Broadway Wimbledon Kingston Bromley Nottingham Croydon Orpington Sutton Wolverhampton Sutton Epsom Coldeld Leicester Merry Hill Peterborough Birmingham Solihull Cambridge Northampton Milton Keynes Milton Keynes Centre Oakgrove Luton Aylesbury Colchester Hemel Oxford Chelmsford Hempstead St Albans Basildon High Wycombe Cardi Southend Swindon Maidstone Bristol Reading Newbury Bath Canterbury Basingstoke Guildford Ashford Tunbridge Slough Crawley Wells Southampton Windsor Brighton Eastbourne 66 STORES Including our Moorgate store, opened in January 2019 METRO BANK PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 METRO BANK PLC metrobankonline.
