STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GLOSSARY Application programming The protocols, routines, functions and or commands that programmers use to develop interface API software or facilitate interaction between distinct systems.
Common equity tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital under CRD IV that comprises common CET1 shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves less specified regulatory adjustments.
A breakdown of our CET1 capital can be found in note29.
Debt-to-value ratio DTV The ratio of the gross outstanding amount to the indexed value of the collateral.
Expected credit loss ECL The present value of the amount expected to be lost on a financial asset.
Exposure at default EAD The amount that we expect to be owed at the point of default.
Encumbered assets Assets recognised on the balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable for us to secure funding orbe sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Forbearance Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to an borrowers financial difficulties.
Financial services The statutory deposit insurance and investors compensation scheme for customers of UK compensation scheme FSCS authorised banks, building societies and credit unions.
The scheme protects up to 85,000 per depositor in the event of the firms insolvency.
Internal Capital Adequacy Our own assessment, based on Basel II requirements, of the levels of capital that we need Assessment Process ICAAP to hold in respect of our regulatory capital requirements.
Internal Ratings-Based A methodology of estimating the credit risk within a portfolio by utilising internal risk approach IRB parameters to calculate credit risk regulatory capital requirements.
There are two approaches to IRB: Foundation IRB and Advanced IRB.
Loss given default LGD The estimated loss which will arise if a customer defaults.
It is expressed as a percentage considering expected recoveries on defaulted accounts.
Partially Exemption Special A special method is a calculation agreed with HMRC which is different to their standard Method PESM method.
It enables us to calculate how much input value added tax VAT we may recover.
Probability of default PD The likelihood of a borrower defaulting on its financial obligation either over the next 12months for Stage 1 accounts, or over the remaining lifetime of the loan for Stage 2 and 3 accounts.
Regulatory leverage ratio The ratio of our common equity tier 1 capital see above compared to our total assets.
Risk weighted assets RWA A measure of our assets adjusted for their associated risk.
Risk weightings are applied in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Term funding scheme TFS A scheme implemented by the Bank of England which provides funding to banks and building societies at rates close to Base Rate.
It is designed to encourage lenders to reflect cuts in Base Rate in the interest rates faced by households and businesses.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 163
