com including: you wish to: regular updates about our business: register for electronic communications: hotel and other property information: transfer your shares: the ability to book a room at one of our hotels around the world: change your registered name or address: share price information: register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: financial results and investor information: and consolidate your share holdings: our financial calendar which includes dividend payment dates and manage your dividend payments: and amounts.
notify the death of a shareholder.
electronic shareholder communications Registering for online communication gives shareholders more control You can also manage your shareholding online by registering for of their shareholding.
The registration process is via our registrars Shareview at www.
When contacting Equiniti or secure website www.
registering online, you should have your shareholder reference number at hand.
This can be found on your share certificate or latest dividend Once registered shareholders are able to: tax voucher.
elect how we communicate with them: Contact details for our registrar: amend their details: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex amend the way dividends are received: and BN99 6DA, United Kingdom buy or sell shares online.
Telephone: 0371 384 2343 This does not mean shareholders can no longer receive paper copies of and outside the UK 44 121 415 7047 documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and tailor Textphone: 0371 384 2255 communication to meet their needs.
and outside the UK 44 121 415 7028 Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 203 sharegift Contacts and advisers It may be that you have a small number of shares which would cost you registered office more to sell than they are worth.
It is possible to donate these to Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free service to enable you to United Kingdom dispose charitably of such shares.
More information on this service can be Registered in England and Wales No: 3004377 obtained from www.
Be aware of share fraudsters Corporate headquarters Shareholders are cautioned to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London W8 5SY, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers United Kingdom of free reports on the Company.
stockbroker If you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take the Credit Suisse International following steps: auditor obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make a record KPMG LLP of any other information they give you, for example telephone solicitor number, address or web address: Hogan Lovells International LLP if the caller persists, simply hang up: and report the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA so that principal bankers they can investigate.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch DBS Bank Ltd.
If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters please tell Mizuho Bank, Ltd. the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can Royal Bank of Scotland plc also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation MUFG Bank, Ltd. You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited authorised by the FCA.
Check the firm is properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting www.
If you registrar do deal with an unauthorised firm you will not be eligible to receive Equiniti Limited payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at www.
Ann Annual Report ual Report & Accounts & Accounts 2018 2018
