120 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd U Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
V New accounting standards adopted in the current year i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The Group has adopted IFRS 9 effective from the start of the Groups current financial year.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been applied as follows by the Group: Changes to hedge accounting policies have been applied prospectively: All hedging relationships designated under IAS 39 at 31 December 2017 met the criteria for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 and are therefore regarded as continuing hedging relationships: The expected credit loss model was applied: and Comparative periods have not been restated as the Group assessed the impact of the standard on the accounts to be immaterial.
ii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has adopted IFRS 15 effective from the start of the Groups current financial year using the modified retrospective approach.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as they are satisfied.
The Group assessed the impact of the standard on its revenue streams and concluded that there is no material impact to revenue.
3 ACCouNTINg ESTIMATES ANd JudgEMENTS Management has discussed with the Audit & Risk Committee the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
3.1 JudgEMENTS The key judgements are: Classification of investment properties The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2H.
The Group owns assets which are leased to external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2H.
Where the indicators are such that on balance the Group is shown to be a passive investor, the relevant property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for the fair value change through the income statement as other operating income or expense.
Indicators considered include 1 party that has the power to make the significant operating and financing decisions regarding the operations of the property in a Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 121 management contract, 2 calculation of the lessors return, 3 lessors power of intervention under the management contract, and 4 duration of the contract.
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a majority of voting rights fide facto control In 2014, the new consolidation accounting standard, IFRS 10 introduced a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
This required the Group to consider whether it has fide facto control over its investees, particularly when it owned less than 50% of the voting rights.
In 2014, in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 10, the Group reassessed the control conclusion for its investees and changed its control conclusion in respect of its investment in CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, which was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method.
Although the Group owns less than half of the voting power of the investee, management determined that, under IFRS 10, the Group has had control over the investee since its inception.
This is because a 100% owned subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited acts as REIT Manager with its fees having a performance-based element and therefore the Group has exposure to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
Accordingly, in 2014, the Group applied acquisition accounting to the investment from the year it was first established in 2006, and restated the relevant amounts as if the investee had been consolidated from that year.
This judgement was reconsidered this year and continues to be appropriate.
Business combination For each acquisition, the Group has to make a judgement whether to account the transaction as an asset purchase or a business combination, which results in a different accounting treatment.
In particular, under business combination accounting, goodwill and additional intangible assets may arise and the valuation of acquired assets is complex.
In addition, transaction costs can be capitalised in an asset acquisition, but have to be charged through the income statement for a business combination.
The classification of each acquisition and related accounting is highly judgemental.
Details of acquisitions undertaken by the Group during the year, including the specific judgements, are set out in Notes 12 and 14.
Land leases classification The Group holds a number of hotels with leases of land that are determined to have an indefinite economic life.
These are classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
In determining whether the lease of land should be accounted for as a finance or an operating lease, the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land.
3.2 ESTIMATES The key estimates are: Impairment of tangible assets The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual impairment assessment.
The annual assessment requires an estimate of the recoverable value of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual hotel site level.
Where appropriate, external valuations are also undertaken.
Estimation of the recoverable value of the hotel assets is done with the reference to fair value less cost to sell, using income approach, which requires estimation of future cash flows of a third party efficient operator, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rates, terminal capitalization rates and growth rates.
The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate, and that the discount rate and terminal capitalisation rate used are appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 12.
