111 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 rEporTINg ENTITy Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 14 February 2019.
2.1 BASIS oF prEpArATIoN The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties, derivative financial instruments and equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI are stated at their fair values.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies operating profit and other operating income and expense.
This is in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
The financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002.
Details of the Groups accounting policies, including changes during the year, are included below.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Interests in equity-accounted investees The Groups interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in joint ventures and associates.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, and where the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 112 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on page 18 to 45.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report Financial performance on pages 23 to 25 and in the key performance indicators on page 22.
In addition, Note 22 of the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources and plans for refinancing maturing facilities are under way.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the signing of this annual report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
In assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
2.2 SuMMAry oF SIgNIFICANT ACCouNTINg poLICIES The Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and identifiable net assets acquired are measured at the acquisition date fair value.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at that date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 113 After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
B Foreign currency The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
i Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
C Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency and interest rate risk exposures.
Derivatives are initially measured at fair value: any directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognised in profit or loss.
D Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 114 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the above policy, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
E Property, plant and equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP were measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004 being the effective date of the Groups conversion to IFRS.
ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Software up to 8 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 115 Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised net of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, were stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
F Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income, are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium The Group makes and receives initial payments on entering into both long and short leases of land and buildings.
Where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating leases.
On the statement of financial position, finance lease payment attributable to the land is recorded as property, plant and equipment and for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase or lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
G Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 116 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for these assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
H Investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property.
In limited circumstances, the determination of fair value is uncertain, and these properties are carried at cost.
Impairment analysis over these properties is carried out annually.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
I Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
They are held for sale in the short term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
Borrowing costs payable on loans funding a development property are also capitalised, on a specific identification basis, as part of the cost of the development property until the completion of development.
Payments received from purchasers arising from pre-sales of the property units prior to the completion are included as deferred income under other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
M Taxation Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 117 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
N Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in Note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management is required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight has been afforded to macro-economic factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in Note 23.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
The Group recognises remeasurement gains and losses within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liabilities asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 118 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions The share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in Note 23.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equitysettled transaction awards are treated equally.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in Note 11.
O Provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Further details on provisions are given in Note 24.
P Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 119 Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: Income from property rental recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Development property sales recognised when the transfer of control of the property has passed to the buyer, which is usually when legal title transfers depending on jurisdictions.
The trigger for revenue recognition depends on the laws within each jurisdiction.
Q Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
R Operating segment information Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
The segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in Note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COOs.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the reportable operating segments.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
S Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
T Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as either equity instruments at FVOCI or fair value through profit and loss FVTPL and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less any impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
