111 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 rEporTINg ENTITy Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 14 February 2019.
2.1 BASIS oF prEpArATIoN The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties, derivative financial instruments and equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI are stated at their fair values.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies operating profit and other operating income and expense.
This is in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
The financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002.
Details of the Groups accounting policies, including changes during the year, are included below.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Interests in equity-accounted investees The Groups interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in joint ventures and associates.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, and where the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
