169 33 rELATEd pArTIES Identity of related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
The Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, associates and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with ultimate holding company and other related companies The Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd Hong Leong which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and holds 65.2% 2017: 65.2% of the Companys shares via CDL, the intermediate holding company of the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries.
The Group deposited certain surplus cash with Hong Leong Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Hong Leong, on normal commercial terms.
As at 31 December 2018, 2m 2017: 4m of cash was deposited with Hong Leong Finance Limited.
Fees paid payable by the Group to CDL and its other subsidiaries were 3m 2017: 3m which included rentals paid for the Grand Shanghai restaurant and Kings Centre: property management fees for Tanglin Shopping Centre: charges for car parking, leasing commission and professional services.
Transactions with key management personnel The beneficial interest of the Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.16% 2017: 0.16%.
In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and executive officers and contributes to a post-employment defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
The defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
Executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Groups Sharesave schemes.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2018 2017 M M Short-term employee benefits 7 6 Directors 1 1 Executives 6 5 7 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2018
