122 NoTES To ThE CoNSoLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CoNTINuEd 4 NEw STANdArdS ANd INTErprETATIoNS NoT yET AdopTEd The following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the IASB, become effective after the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group: In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and was endorsed by the European Union in November 2017.
IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the period of the lease and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as in IAS 17.
The Group is currently in the process of collating information from various regions as part of assessing the impact the standard will have on the Groups financial statements.
As at the date of the publication of these financial statements, it is not practicable to quantify this impact.
5 opErATINg SEgMENT INForMATIoN Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net financial expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Geographical segments The hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas as follows: New York Regional US London Rest of Europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia The segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
The reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
Operating segments have Chief Operating Officers COOs or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and who maintain regular contact with the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COOs.
The results of CDLHT have been incorporated within the existing geographical regions.
In addition, CDLHT operations are reviewed separately by its board on a monthly basis.
