Notes to the financial statements Section 5 Other notes continued 5.2 Subsidiaries and associates continued Name of subsidiary Country of incorporation Country of operation Nature of business Browns Restaurants Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant Crownhill Estates Derriford Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant East London Pubs & Restaurants Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant Mitchells & Butlers Lease Company Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant Intertain Dining Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant b Lander & Cook Limited England and Wales United Kingdom Dormant a.
Shares held directly by Mitchells & Butlers plc.
The registered office for companies operating in the United Kingdom is 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham, B3 1JP.
The registered office for companies operating in Germany is Adolfstrasse 16, 65185 Wiesbaden.
Associates Details of the Companys associates, held indirectly, are as follows.
Shares in these associates have been acquired in the period.
Country of Proportion of Proportion of incorporation and Country of Nature of ownership voting power Name of associate Registered office operation operation business interest % interest % 3Sixty Restaurants 1st Floor St Georges House, England and Limited St Georges Road, Bolton, BL1 2DD Wales United Kingdom Leisure retailing 40 40 Fatboy Pub Company Ampney House, Falcon Close, England and Limited Quedgeley, Gloucester, GL2 4LS Wales United Kingdom Leisure retailing 25 25 5.3 Events after the balance sheet date On 26 October 2018 the High Court provided a ruling regarding guaranteed minimum pensions GMPs equalisation.
The court ruled that pensions provided to members who had contracted-out of their scheme must be recalculated to ensure payments reflect the equalisation of state pension ages in the 1990s.
The ruling confirmed that there are four methods of equalising GMP that are lawful in principle, but importantly employers can direct trustees to apply method C i. e. provide the better of male or female comparator pensions each year, subject to accumulated offsetting.
The court also ruled that trustees are obliged to make arrears payments to members and simple interest on the arrears should be paid at 1% above the base rate.
This ruling will impact the Groups actuarial surplus deficit, as it will lead to an increase in pension obligations, however it should be noted that due to the recognition of an additional liability in relation to minimum funding, there will be no change to the reported pension position on the balance sheet.
As the Trustees have not previously attempted to equalise GMPs, the ruling is treated as a non-adjusting event.
Given the date of the ruling and complexity of application, it is not currently practical to estimate the impact on the actuarial surplus deficit and income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share is stated after removing the impact of adjusted items as explained in note 2.2.
