Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MONEYSUPERMARKET.
Our opinion is unmodified The risk Our response We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated completeness and Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes in valuation of intangibles There is significant judgment with regard control design: Equity, and the related notes including the accounting policies in note 2. arising from the to the assumptions and estimates Testing the design and implementation of the controls over purchase of decision involved in the forecasting of future cash the acquisition accounting: technologies limited flows that form the basis of the In our opinion: Assessing experts: and its subsidiaries assessment of the value of the domain the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Understanding the work of the expert by inspecting the names and the costs of rebuild for the 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: engagement letter and making inquiries of the expert.
Intangible assets of 8.7 software assets on acquisition.
The key the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Evaluating their competence, capability and objectivity: million assumptions for the domain names are adopted by the European Union: our valuation expertise: the expected future revenue and the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS With the assistance of our own valuation specialists, we Refer to page 50 Audit discount rate applied to the cash flows 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and assessed the appropriateness of the valuation Committee Report, and for the software assets, the time the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the methodologies applied and challenged the completeness of page 91 accounting taken to build the assets and the cost Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the intangible assets identified, the discount rate for the policy and pages 112 to rate applied to this time.
domain names and the time incurred and costs associated 113 financial disclosures.
Basis for opinion with the software assets: and Given the level of goodwill recognised on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities this acquisition, there is a risk that not all Historical comparison: are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit intangibles have been recognised on Challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
particularly the projected sales volumes, by assessing the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 April 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 12 financial The effect of these matters is that, as years ended 31 December 2018.
Prior to that we were also auditor to the Groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, part of our risk assessment, we our results was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in determined that the recognition and We found the completeness and valuation of intangibles accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit valuation of intangibles has a high arising from the purchase of Decision Technologies Limited services prohibited by that standard were provided.
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a and its subsidiaries to be acceptable.
potential range of reasonable outcomes overview greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
In Materiality: 5.0m 2017:4.8m conducting our final audit work, we Group Financial Statements as a whole 4.7% 2017: 5% of Group profit before tax reassessed the degree of estimation uncertainty to be less than materiality.
coverage 100% 2017:100% of Group profit before tax Key audit matters vs 2017 Revenue recognition: subjective estimate Our procedures included: new: Completeness and valuation of intangibles Revenue accrual Judgement is required to estimate control design and operation: Testing, with the assistance event driven arising from the purchase of Decision Technologies 31.1 million: 2017: unbilled revenue at the period end.
of our own IT specialists, the design and operating Limited and its subsidiaries 23.5million Revenue is recognised predominantly effectiveness of the general IT control environments and from internet lead generation click Revenue recognition: application controls in the click recording system: Recurring risks Refer to page 50 Audit based revenues.
Accrued revenue as at Revenue accrual test of details: Agreeing a sample of the revenue accrual Committee Report, period end is recorded based on an where the invoice has been raised only raised if the provider Capitalisation of software and development page92 accounting estimation of the likely number of has confirmed the amount to be billed and or cash received costs policy and page 105 successful conversions.
post year end: financial disclosures.
Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in test of details: We developed an expectation for the The effect of these matters is that, as subsidiary and debt due from group entities uninvoiced element of the accrual based on historical cash part of our risk assessment for audit receipts and considered whether this was within an planning purposes, we determined that 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement acceptable range of the amount recorded: and the revenue accrual had a high degree of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial estimation uncertainty, with a potential Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, range of reasonable outcomes greater Groups disclosures in respect of the judgement and including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the than our materiality for the financial estimates around the revenue accrual.
efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our statements as a whole.
In conducting audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our our final audit work, we reassessed the our results results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, degree of estimation uncertainty to be We found the resulting estimate of the revenue accrual to be and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently less than materiality.
are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We continue to perform procedures over revenue recognition and the complexities involved in the recording of the internet lead generation click based revenue.
However, in light of the acquisition and resulting increase in the level of revenue accrual, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 80 81
