78 Business reviews Consumer Packaging Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2018 2019 priorities e Ongoing commercial and operational initiatives to e Ongoing continuous improvement initiatives to Drive performance along optimise productivity and reduce waste as well as foster productivity and drive efficiency the value chain enhance our quality management systems e Investigate opportunities to optimise our plant e Restructuring and relocation of assets within the plant network network to lower the cost base and optimise machine utilisation e Progressed with key expansion projects at our coste Complete expansion capital investment projects Invest in assets advantaged locations currently underway with cost advantage e Optimise recent investments e Continued focus on growing our safety culture through e Further focus on improving our safety record and Inspire our people and best practice sharing, training and engagement initiatives to engage our workforce grow responsibly e Ongoing drive to decrease the environmental impact e Continue to work with stakeholders to improve the of our products and processes and endorsed the EMF sustainability of flexible packaging products New Plastics Economy Global Commitment e Developed innovative solutions in partnership with our e Continue to partner with customers to develop Partner with customers customers: innovative and more sustainable solutions for innovation with a focus on flexible packaging solutions designed for recycling that deliver a successful proposition for our customers and the end consumer Becoming an employer of choice is a topic Invest in assets Inspire our people that has been at the forefront in 2018. with cost advantage and grow responsibly At our annual business unit management We have completed most of our investment In 2018 our safety focus has been on conference roles of key internal stakeholder plans at our cost-advantaged locations standardising best practice processes groups were defined and 10 employee in central and eastern Europe, upgrading across our plant network and implementing needs, such as job security, safe work and expanding our plant capabilities.
employee engagement and training environment, personal contribution and Our investment in the Amphor Khowyoi initiatives in response to safety incidents training opportunities, were identified.
plant Thailand is progressing well, with during the year.
Specific plant action plans to address these completion expected by mid-2019.
For example an incident in our Bekescsaba needs have been implemented throughout In recent years, we have invested Hungary operation prompted us to our plant network.
significantly in the modernisation and increase our training on fire and explosion The environmental impact of flexible plastic growth of our Consumer Packaging risks, and we rolled this programme out packaging continues to gain attention, business.
While further capital investment across our business to build awareness both externally and internally.
We are opportunities in this business remain an and prevent future accidents.
We are also working with partners across our value option, we are currently focused on the increasing the use of digital solutions in our chain to reinvent flexible plastic packaging optimisation of our existing operations safety processes to improve quality and so that it is fit for a circular economy.
including leveraging recently completed efficiency throughout our operations.
Evidence shows that flexible plastic is investments as well as completing current Unfortunately, we saw a life-altering injury often the most sustainable solution over capital investment projects underway.
at our Gronau Germany operation related the course of its life-cycle, if it is disposed to moving and rotating equipment, which of responsibly.
remains one of our highest safety risks and We are active participants in industry therefore continues to be a focus going associations including the CEFLEX project forward.
We have implemented a number Circular Economy for Flexible Packaging.
of actions to address the issue, including In addition to stimulating increased participation in the newly appointed collection of flexible plastic packaging in working group focusing on moving and all European countries, CEFLEX aims to rotating equipment and isolation and develop a robust set of design guidelines locking out of energy sources.
to maximise overall resource efficiency and optimise recyclability.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 79 Mondi joined the Ellen MacArthur As part of a Mondi-led pioneer project, we Partner with customers Foundations EMF New Plastics Economy have made great progress in developing for innovation Initiative in 2017, and in 2018 we pledged a solution for FMCG brand owners.
Flexible plastic packaging, when to increase investment in research Thanks to collaboration with Europes manufactured, used and disposed of and development, and drive deeper leading recyclers and Mondi sites testing appropriately, delivers many benefits from collaboration throughout our supply chain by the pilot plant of Mondi Gronau, coresource efficiency by reducing material to move away from non-renewable and extrusion of film by Mondi Styria Austria, usage and being less transport intense to non-recyclable plastic.
printing and lamination at Mondi Deeside reducing food waste by enabling correct UK with pouching at Mondi Nelson We are one of the first signatories of sized portions and extending shelf-life.
UK we have been able to show that the New Plastics Economy Global One of the most significant developments it is possible to separate and recycle Commitment committing to 100% of in 2018 was the momentum gained in polyethylene from post-consumer waste plastic-based packaging being reusable, the way we are working with customers into a fully recyclable packaging prototype.
recyclable or compostable: and 25% being to develop innovative and sustainable This can now lead the market by proving from recycled content where it does not flexible plastic packaging.
The New Plastics that true circularity of packaging production, compromise functionality or food health Economy Initiative has rallied businesses use, recycling and reprocessing is possible.
requirements by 2025. and governments behind a positive In a further collaborative project, we We also continue to work on improving our vision of a circular economy for plastics.
continue to work on the circularity of other energy efficiency and reducing our waste It has brought together 290 signatories, products.
Together with a recycling partner to landfill.
including many leading companies, who APK AG who have developed a process have committed to working towards 100% called Newcycling Mondi has tested the reusable, recyclable, or compostable plastic suitability of recycled polyethylene PE for packaging by 2025. multi-layer films by designing a new plastic packaging solution for washing powder that replaces up to 80% of the previously virgin PE layer with post-industrial waste.
The result is a high-quality packaging laminate that maintains the functionality Mondi Diamond Awards requirements of our customer, reduces Mondi Korneuburg the demand for virgin fossil based PE and achieves a packaging solution containing SHE goes up to 50% recycled materials.
Hollywood In our personal care components product portfolio, we are developing the next generation of back ear laminates for diapers with the application of alternative bonding technology.
This is expected to deliver efficiency improvements and raw material savings while retaining the diapers softness and elasticity properties.
We also partnered with our customers to develop enhanced, Making sure our people work and appropriate safety behaviour cost effective personal care components Winner in Safety & safe and get home safe is our allow viewers to easily identify with Health category solutions, tailored for consumers in a range top priority.
the correct way of doing things.
By showing our people what to of markets and regions.
Presenters: With people from 24 nations do rather than telling them we speaking 18 different languages Stephanie Schmuttermair enabled a real change in mindset.
all working on the shop-floor Continuous Improvement Manager As a result we have reduced together, creating an effective HR People Development, annual cut injuries from five in 2016 safety-training programme is Mondi Korneuburg to zero in 2018, and sustainably extremely challenging.
lowered the training time required Michael Watz Although our safety culture had per employee as the videos are SHE coordinator, improved, we felt our conventional so effective.
Mondi Korneuburg training approach had reached its We are proud of creating a limit.
We decided it was time to sustainable safety culture that take SHE to Hollywood!
helps all employees regardless With a special task force, we of nationality or language lead created safety videos with safety safer professional and personal champions as screenwriters and lives.
Through visual, humorous employees as actors.
The videos teaching tools that employees deal with very serious safety topics have helped to create, we have using a targeted sense of humour implemented truly successful and they dont rely on text or safety training which other Mondi language.
The exaggerated replants are keen to adopt.
enactments of common accidents Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 80 Business reviews Uncoated Fine Paper Were a market leader in Europe, including Developing cost-efficient, highOur Uncoated Fine Paper Russia, and South Africa.
We operate performance, environmentally responsible UFP business manufactures vertically integrated, well-invested, costsolutions is a cornerstone of our business and sells an extensive range advantaged assets and continually look strategy.
Our focus is on transforming of quality papers for use for ways to improve efficiency, productivity credibly sourced raw materials into in offices and professional and sustainability.
innovative paper solutions to meet customer needs in a cost-effective and printing houses.
Our extensive range of office papers is sustainable way.
designed to achieve optimal print results on laser, inkjet and copy machines.
All of Mondis UFP mill brands are part of High-performance professional printing the Green Range, our umbrella trademark Operating sites papers are dedicated for offset presses, for sustainable paper solutions.
They are high-speed inkjet presses and other digital produced from FSC or PEFC certified wood 6 in 4 countries print technologies.
With our wide range from sustainably managed forests or 100% of high-quality papers we aim to provide recycled paper, or are produced totally customers a one-stop-shop solution for chlorine free TCF.
We understand the value of In addition to producing pulp and paper, paper in communication including haptic we manage 2.4 million hectares of forest in and optic qualities such as vibrant colours, 6,500 Russia and South Africa.
sharp contrast and striking visuals that bring stories to life.
Production capacity Pulp: 1,725 ktpa Uncoated fine paper: 1,915 ktpa 1 Includes 205 ktpa of newsprint Spotlight on sustainable paper by design PERGRAPHICA Color Copy The perfect paper Premium design papers for digital colour printing We designed our PERGRAPHICA Our flagship office paper is by far portfolio of premium uncoated fine the most well-known brand of office papers for perfectionists.
As a hybrid paper in Europe for colour printing paper, PERGRAPHICA works well applications.
Customers have relied with all printing technologies and on it for over a quarter of a century for delivers consistent, high-quality perfect print results and consistent results that meet the exacting needs quality.
It also has an exceptional of the creative and commercial print environmental profile: CO neutral 2 industries.
Available in a smooth and FSC, EU Ecolabel and ISO 9706 or rough texture, it enhances certifications.
Recently we redesigned sophisticated messaging its wrapper to be even stronger and with anelegant look andfeel.
Its still The choiceof high white, the same great Color Copy, now with classic ornatural whiteness packaging that is more user-friendly.
brings unique style to printed materials.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 81 Financial review Segment revenue Underlying EBITDA million Underlying EBITDA was up 11% to million 516 million.
Higher average selling prices more than offset higher costs and negative 1,877m 516m currency effects.
ROCE 1,877 516 We estimate European uncoated fine paper 1,832 1,764 481 1,722 1,720 464 448 demand declined around 4% on a strong prior year period, bringing the average rate 349 of decline over the past two years to 2%, at the higher end of our expected long-term trend of 1% to 2% decline per annum.
Demand in Russia and South Africa was flat, in line with our long-term estimate.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Uncoated fine paper sales volumes were 1% higher than the prior year, despite the ongoing structural decline in mature markets, as we continue to benefit from our emerging market exposure and superior cost positioning.
Average benchmark Production information European uncoated fine paper selling 2018 2017 prices were 7% higher than the prior year Uncoated fine paper 000 tonnes 1,649 1,644 and 4% up in the second half of the year Hardwood pulp compared to the first half, following the Internal consumption 000 tonnes 906 950 implementation of price increases over the course of the year.
Uncoated fine Market pulp 000 tonnes 338 395 paper selling prices in Russia and South Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 386 375 Africa were also increased during the year, Newsprint 000 tonnes 207 277 offsetting domestic cost inflation.
Financial performance We saw an increase in input costs, most 1 notably for wood, energy and chemicals, Restated million % change 2018 2017 while fixed costs were higher due to Segment revenue 2% 1,877 1,832 domestic inflationary cost pressures and the impact of maintenance shuts, Underlying EBITDA 11% 516 464 partly compensated by our ongoing cost Underlying EBITDA margin 27.5% 25.3% reduction initiatives.
Underlying operating profit 17% 395 337 The forestry assets fair value is dependent Special items 21 15 on a variety of external factors over which Capital expenditure cash payments 161 122 we have limited control, the most significant Operating segment net assets 1,494 1,515 being the export price of timber, the exchange rate and domestic input costs.
ROCE 31.9% 26.6% Increases in export prices, and a weaker Sustainable development rand at the end of the year resulted in a fair value gain of 43 million in line with the 2018 2017 prior year, but with the second half gain TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.40 0.28 17 million above that reflected in the first Gender diversity % women employed 23 23 half of 2018.
Training hours thousand hours 334 333 A planned maintenance shut at Syktyvkar Energy consumption million GJ 91.76 93.25 mill Russia and an extended shut Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 3.38 3.38 2 at Richards Bay South Africa were Forest certification % managed land certified to completed during the first half of the year.
2 FSC standards 100 100 In the second half, we completed planned shuts at Ruomberok Slovakia and FSCor PEFC-certified Neusiedler Austria.
In 2019, our Syktyvkar wood procured % 78 80 and Richards Bay shuts are planned for Environmental management % operations certified to the first half of the year while a project certification ISO 14001 standards 100 100 related shut at our Ruomberok mill and CoC Certification % operations certified to FSC the remaining shuts are scheduled for the or PEFC CoC standards 100 100 second half.
1 Refer to notes 32 and 33 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for basis of restatement 2 Our forestry operations in Russia are also 100% PEFC certified Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 17.0% 27.0% 32.3% 26.6% 31.9% 82 Business reviews Uncoated Fine Paper Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2018 2019 priorities e Improved productivity and efficiency with performance e Continue to optimise performance and increase Drive performance along improvement initiatives implemented across mills and productivity and efficiency in our mills and forestry the value chain related forestry operations operations e Closure of an uncoated fine paper machine in Merebank South Africa e Continued with investment projects to debottleneck e Evaluate and execute investment projects to Invest in assets production at Syktyvkar increase saleable production by 100,000 tonnes with cost advantage per annum in the medium term at Syktyvkar e Completed waste water treatment plant investment and progressed on the power plant modernisation at e Investigation, and where appropriate Syktyvkar implementation, of investment projects to modernise our Richards Bay facility e Acquisition of 11,000 hectares of well-located forestry plantations in KwaZulu-Natal South Africa e Ongoing focus on safety e Continued focus on improving safety record Inspire our people and e Investments and engagement with local communities e Complete investments to reduce the environmental grow responsibly footprint of our mills and increase energy efficiency e Initiatives to develop talent within the organisation e Rolled out myMondi to include a majority of our e Continued enhancement of myMondi Partner with customers customers by the third quarter of 2018 e Continued focus on enhancing our service offering for innovation e Reorganisation of European marketing and sales force to customers to product channel focus Due to the declining margins on unintegrated To enhance the security of wood supply Drive performance paper production following the rapid rise to our Richards Bay mill and improve cost along the value chain in hardwood pulp input costs, we ceased competitiveness, we acquired around Efforts to drive the performance of our production at one of our uncoated fine 11,000 hectares of well-located forest operations and reduce waste continued paper machines at Merebank during plantations in KwaZulu-Natal in May 2018 for during the year with initiatives to optimise the second half of the year, which was ZAR408 million 27 million on a debt and machine performance and increase operating at 70,000 tonnes per annum cash-free basis.
efficiency and productivity leading to record production capacity.
production at one of our pulp mills and three We are investigating alternatives for the of our paper machines.
modernisation of our Richards Bay facility, Invest in assets including the modernisation of the mills To further improve the reliability and technical with cost advantage energy and chemical plants.
integrity of our pulp and paper operations As part of our plan to maintain Syktyvkars and reduce maintenance costs we competitiveness and increase saleable Inspire our people continue to develop our asset management production by around 100,000 tonnes per and grow responsibly processes, including the implementation of annum in the medium term, we are investing specific training to enhance the skills and We remain committed to achieving a culture to debottleneck production and avoid qualifications of our people across our mill where everybody works safely and returns unplanned shutdowns, including various network.
We also established a programme home safely every day.
We sincerely regret upgrades of the mill infrastructure, fibre lines the fatality of a contractor at Syktyvkar in to optimise the performance of our recovery and pulp dryer, and a new evaporation plant.
April 2018 during planned maintenance boilers, which we expect will deliver energy At the end of the year, we completed the work at the woodyard, and another fatality in savings, enable best-practice sharing investment in the waste water treatment January 2019 when a contractor lost his life and continue to improve the reliability of plant at Syktyvkar, which will improve waste during drilling works at the construction site our operations.
water quality and reduce chemical oxygen of our new paper machine in Ruomberok.
We made further productivity improvements demand and total suspended solids.
Unfortunately, we also suffered two lifeat our forestry operations in Russia and, by We are progressing with the rebuild of the altering injuries at our Syktyvkar logging further strengthening our local partnerships, power plant at the same mill to replace operations in Russia and our forests in improved wood availability and saw log three existing bark boilers and four turbines South Africa.
We also focused on improving our with a single new bark boiler and turbine conducted after all incidents and action plans administrative processes at Syktyvkar.
providing process simplification, improved implemented to prevent repeat incidents.
During the year we placed special attention reliability, reduced costs, reduced natural on operational improvements at our Our focus on contractor safety management, gas consumption, increased use of biomass South African operations by developing application of Mondis risk assessment for energy and reduced greenhouse gas improvement plans for both our Richards methodology and roll out of the revised emissions.
This project is now expected to Bay and Merebank mills focusing on reliability Permit to Work methodology aims to ensure complete in the second half of 2019.
The total improvements, increased operational safe annual maintenance and projectcapital expenditure for both projects now efficiencies and cost reductions across the related shuts.
These initiatives have delivered initial benefits in the year.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 83 We are on track with our efforts to eliminate NEXT New thinking, Expertise and Talent enquire and follow up on product and order the Top Risks, which remain a key part of our is a Syktyvkar initiative that combines related queries.
MyMondi has enabled us approach to safety.
The majority of our first external expertise, internal development to optimise our business processes and line managers have completed our tailorand promotions, leadership excellence increase efficiency.
We have had very positive made safety and health programme, and all and university partnerships resulting in feedback from our customers and plan to safety and health professionals completed a improved talent attraction, productivity and further enhance the services offered though four-module in-depth specialist training.
In South Africa, our this digital platform in 2019.
With the launch GROW Growing Trees Developing People of myMondi, the number of electronic order We continually strive to improve the initiative is focused on developing a strong lines placed by our customers now exceeds environmental performance of our pipeline of forester skills through accredited two thirds of all European order lines.
Odour abatement is still training programmes that are calibrated and a priority for our pulp mills.
We have During 2018 we re-organised our European benchmarked through a Forestry Learning completed the planned initiatives at our marketing and sales organisation from a Centre which has resulted in a significant Ruomberok mill, however, regrettably we regional to a channel focus, which allowed increase in workforce engagement.
have had significant odour incidents at both us to develop more end-user and application our Ruomberok and Richards Bay mills expertise.
This change will further cement Partner with customers affecting the surrounding communities.
commercial excellence, deliver improved for innovation We have engaged constructively with customer service and strengthen the Following its introduction in 2017, we local stakeholders around our action plans efficiency of our organisation.
The new rolled out myMondi to include a majority to address the root causes and prevent organisation is supported by newly added of our customers by the third quarter of future occurrences.
functionalities, incorporated into our cloudthe year.
This 24 7 web shop and service based CRM platform, which will further Working in partnership with NGOs, portal provides customers with detailed enhance customer experience.
government and business is central to our product information, the ability to place approach.
We are working to increase and track orders, and the functionality to the long-term supply of sustainable fibre, including collaborating with global certification schemes to improve access to credibly certified fibre.
We are proud of Mondi Diamond our progress in protecting Intact Forest Awards Landscapes as these large unfragmented Mondi South Africa areas, undisturbed by roads or other significant human infrastructure, are globally Jabulani Agrirecognised as priority protection areas.
Village Model In Russia, we partner with WWF Russia a model for and Silver Taiga to identify and protect future success these areas in the Komi Republic.
We have an extensive community engagement and investment programme focused on areas around our mills and people living on our forestry land.
We believe Our plantation forests are integral community.
Responding to the that small and medium enterprises SMEs Finalist in Sustainable to meeting the timber requirements project, they sang Jabulani in the forestry business can help to meet Development category of our Richards Bay pulp mill, meaning happiness.
projected demand for wood-based and therefore essential to the Presenter: The pilot Jabulani Agri-Village products.
They are also crucial to supporting long-term success of the business.
Model works so effectively because Thobi Mkhize Our journey began eight years ago local livelihoods and the wellbeing of forest it has been developed through Head of Land, Mondi South Africa when we had 62 impoverished multiple partnerships and is communities.
In Russia, our Syktyvkar mill villages living in unsafe conditions multidimensional looking at land supports small-scale forest enterprises on Mondi land.
The communities tenure, food security, sustainable were understandably frustrated, who would normally have limited access to and affordable services, social trust levels were low and it was clear resources.
In 2018 we continued to invest in infrastructure, skills development, that things needed to change.
and income enhancement community engagement programmes in and So we set out to drive our programmes.
It is also reproducible around our operations, particularly in Russia business success by helping our our pilot project has given 110 and Slovakia, ranging from infrastructure communities thrive.
The result: a poor and vulnerable households rural community transformation from five villages a better life, and a investments and roads to sponsorship of model that has been adopted further eight agri-villages built on the sporting and other local initiatives.
countrywide to address land same principles will transform the tenure and reform challenges.
We have developed programmes to ensure By amalgamating five small villages We could not be prouder of the we have the right talent and succession into one sustainable agri-village we enormous impact and significance plans to deliver on our long-term strategic leveraged infrastructure synergies, of this project, which demonstrates improved safety, reduced risk targets, even in remote locations such the vital link between the health of to our timber supply and most as Syktyvkar.
business and the communities in importantly empowered the which they operate.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
