74 Business reviews Fibre Packaging For example our WorldStar award winning In April 2018, Mondi hosted Lets paper Partner with customers Glass7Box is a corrugated box with a the world, the first European shopping for innovation shock-absorbent structure created to bag summit bringing together leading In June 2018, we completed the acquisition accommodate different products.
It was converters, suppliers and customers to of Powerflute, an integrated pulp and designed for premium glass brand Riedel collaboratively address the fast growing paper mill with a production capacity to reduce the complexity of the packaging needs for sustainable paper-based of 285,000 tonnes per annum of highprocess and offer greater flexibility when shopping bag solutions and to showcase performance semi-chemical fluting, for packing a broad range of glasses.
our shoppingworld by Mondi product a total consideration of 365 million on a range.
Read more in the case study debt and cash-free basis.
The integration Mondis point-of-sale Baca Stand, a that follows.
is progressing well and further broadens previous WorldStar award winner, is an our containerboard product range and easy forming, tape-free corrugated display 1 The WorldStar awards are open to packaging organisations across the world.
Judges look for sustainable solutions to geographic reach.
We also completed solution consisting of modular trays with a packaging challenges, demonstration of enhanced user convenience and reduced material waste.
2019 winners were two industrial bag plant acquisitions in mid-support structure that enables simple announced in December 2018 Egypt bolstering our presence in the fast and fast filling during production, as well as growing Middle East industrial bag market, easy access for end-consumers.
It is more enabling us to better serve our customers efficient as it uses 46% less material and in the region.
requires 20% less handling time per pallet compared to conventional stack boxes.
We continue to evolve our customer interaction and partnership using digital solutions.
We updated and enhanced our digital technical sales service platform .
com which Mondi Diamond supports our containerboard customers Awards Mondi wiecie 24 7 in developing the most suitable corrugated board structure and resolving Dont waste production issues they may encounter.
the waste Our converting operations continue to focus on partnering with our customers to develop innovative solutions.
As a producer of both paper and plastic packaging, we believe we are uniquely positioned to leverage our customer relationships and paper, bag and barriers know-how to develop sustainable packaging solutions for our customers.
As an example, our PRO HYBRID bag combines a high-density polyethylene outer ply with our Advantage ONE sack kraft paper meaning the packaging can resist rain and protect the People generate a huge amount of We investigated the waste Winner in Sustainable primary product yet can still be used on waste.
For example, the European recipient market, finding Development category Union produces up to 3 billion contractors able to convert our conventional paper bag filling systems.
1 tonnes of waste every year.
Project leaders: The plastic and paper plies can be easily Some goes to landfill, potentially We did extensive research and separated and recycled and, because the Hanna Glowala leading to hazardous compounds engaged with a wide range of Environmental specialist, bag uses two rather than three plies, less in our soil and water, and some people, securing 20 to 40 partner Mondi wiecie above ends up polluting our environment contracts per year between 2004 material is used.
In addition, by 2008 we Magdalena Michalczykresult, and each of us are exposed had completely discontinued ash Industrial Bags won the Eurosac Grand Krakowiak to the harmful effects of waste.
landfill from our coal boilers: dregs Environmental Protection Prix award for MailerBAG, an innovative and sludge landfill: and furnace & Laboratory Manager, This is a crisis impacting our future, light-weight, recyclable and reusable paper waste landfill.
Mondi wiecie and our childrens wellbeing.
bag solution for e-commerce packaging But we can all make a difference It has taken us fourteen years, but designed to lower logistic costs and and at Mondi wiecie, we are we have succeeded.
Today just doing just that.
over 1% of our waste goes to accelerate the packaging processes.
landfill absolutely everything else Our site produces a significant is recycled and reused.
Our corrugated business won seven 2019 amount of waste about 200,000 1 WorldStar awards, more than any other tonnes a year.
Were working it went to landfill.
company worldwide, building on its success reverse that by getting everyone in winning five such awards the prior year, across the value chain to work and consolidating our position as a truly together to bring about change.
innovative force in the packaging industry.
eu environment waste pdf WASTE%20BROCHURE.
pdf Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 75 Spotlight on Lets paper the world 2018 Challenges, opportunities Gone are the days of the Sustainability is no longer Demand for certified fibre Collaborate to meet new and new ways of working simple paper bag an option its a necessity is outstripping supply challenges in the paper were the topics of the day at sustainable forestry needs bag industry Todays paper shopping bags Shopping bags made of Lets paper the world 2018, more focus are engineered for specific credibly certified fibre and Another important takeaway Europes first shopping bag applications within the food and designed to biodegrade, or While rising consumer demand from the summit is the need summit, hosted by Mondi.
For example be easily recycled or reused, for sustainable packaging is a for more exchange and Leading shopping bag a shopping bag produced are no longer a niche product good thing, a clear effect is that partnerships to innovate for converters, suppliers and by bag maker Litobal, with for boutique brands.
Today, demand for sustainable fibre is whats coming, including the customers came together a sophisticated, full-colour sustainability is mainstream.
With just 11% of the growth of e-commerce and the in April in Prague Czech flexoprint on Mondi speciality worlds forests being certified, circular economy.
Richard Cope, Senior Trends Republic for Lets Paper the kraft paper, is proven to carry one of the biggest challenges is Consultant at Mintel, shared More collaboration along World 2018. up to 25 kg food retail bags meeting the increased demand examples from around the the supply chain between must carry at least 12 kg, for certified fibre.
Participants included global world of how consumer product managers, technical made of credibly certified brands Benetton, H&M expectations have shifted for We all want to increase the sales and service, R&D, fibre, and guaranteed safe for and REWE Group: bag sustainability and packaging: share of certified fibre, said suppliers including paper, contact with food.
manufacturers: papermakers Consumers expect companies Tanja Dietrich-Hbner of REWE inks and glues, end users, and paper associations: ink Producing high-performance to set the sustainability agenda.
International, but while organic retailers and even foresters and glue producers: bag shopping bags like these is a They expect brands to be and fair-trade food certifications will be needed to develop machine manufacturers: technical feat that takes skill, ethical on their behalf.
are widely recognised, FSC the perfect paper bags for and market intelligence advanced technology and the and PEFC certifications are not tomorrows needs.
There were four top takeaways from this pivotal summit.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 76 Business reviews Consumer Packaging We operate a high-quality asset base, We produce highly specialised technical Our Consumer Packaging using proprietary processing technology films and film-based solutions for a business develops, with vertical integration along the value variety of uses and industries.
It is all manufactures and sells chain, producing products and product about innovating new technical features innovative flexible plastic-based components for some of the worlds to improve functionality and reliability.
consumer goods packaging biggest brands.
Our leading market Products include high-barrier films for positions and culture of product innovation sophisticated packaging solutions, films solutions, technical films, provide a strong platform for growth.
for demanding surfaces or technical components for personal care components in automotive and light-weight products, and release liners.
Sustainable development is integral to our design as well as high-quality label films.
responsible and profitable growth, and part of our everyday work.
Our focus is on Our personal care components prioritise prioritising the responsible use of resources, comfort in diapers, adult incontinence Operating sites and working with customers and partners and femcare products including soft across the value chain to find the most nonwovens, unique stretchy elastic films 29 in 12 countries useful and sustainable packaging solution and laminates, mechanical fastening for each of their products.
This means components and wrapping films.
more convenient, more comfortable, more In addition, Consumer Packaging also Employees efficient, faster, lighter, stronger and easier offers a wide range of high performance to use or recycle.
paper and film-based release liners and 6,000 Our consumer goods packaging products advanced functional coatings for various help brands communicate with customers, applications including tapes, graphic arts, extend shelf-life and improve end-user medical, fibre composites, baking and convenience.
We produce high-quality many more.
laminates and barrier materials on reels, capable of handling a variety of high-quality printing techniques.
We also offer a wide range of tailor-made converted flexible packaging solutions such as stand-up pouches, re-closable plastic bags, paperbased bags, and ice cream packaging.
Spotlight on sustainable packaging by design Aluminium-free packaging A lighter, recyclable spout for Nestl coffee bag for Werner & Mertz We supply aluminium-free barrier Weve been working with Werner & laminates to Nestl for the leading Mertz since 2014 to reinvent the way Swedish coffee brand Zogas.
they make their detergent packaging.
The transparent laminate is made of The project was truly ambitious.
recyclable polyolefin material which It was not about developing flexible has high barrier properties that plastic packaging that is only preserve the taste and aroma of the theoretically recyclable but still likely coffee for its entire shelf-life.
We are to end up in landfill.
Rather, the working on various projects to further design aim was to reverse-engineer support the whole Nestl Group in the recycling process to create meeting common short and longpackaging fit for every stage of the term sustainability targets including recycling process.
By moving to resource optimisation, delivering a 100% recyclable mono-material packaging solutions made from we were able to achieve a 70% renewable materials and ultimately material reduction versus their rigid fulfilling the circular economy model.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 77 Financial review Segment revenue Underlying EBITDA million Underlying EBITDA of 194 million was million down 13% on the prior year.
1,611m 194m The business generated good growth in selected value-added segments in ROCE 1,646 222 consumer goods packaging and technical 1,611 1,562 1,469 198 194 films, restructured the plant network and 1,379 177 fixed cost base, and drove continuous 158 improvement initiatives during the year.
This saw the sub-segment consumer goods packaging deliver an improved performance in what remains a challenging trading environment.
Overall Consumer Packagings performance was held back 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 by declining volumes in personal care components, one-off costs, rising paper input costs in release liner and negative currency effects.
Drive performance along the value chain During the year we increased our focus on commercial excellence initiatives to drive product mix improvements.
We also continued working on operational improvements to reduce waste and further improve our productivity and efficiency.
We streamlined production Production information across our network, and relocated 2018 2017 machinery to plants where they could Consumer packaging million m 7,278 7,437 be better utilised.
We continue to investigate further opportunities to drive Financial performance performance and optimise our asset base.
1 Restated Continuous improvement initiatives will million % change 2018 2017 again be in focus during 2019.
Segment revenue 2 % 1,611 1,646 In continuing to drive performance by Underlying EBITDA 13 % 194 222 aligning capacity to current market Underlying EBITDA margin 12.0% 13.5% requirements, we restructured our UK operations, including the closure of our Underlying operating profit 14 % 115 134 plant in Scunthorpe in the second half of Special items 32 49 the year.
Capital expenditure cash payments 79 91 To reduce costs and further enhance Operating segment net assets 1,311 1,326 our product, service and process ROCE 9.0% 10.4% quality standards for our customers, we strengthened our quality management Sustainable development systems by improving the way we measure 2018 2017 and report on quality related initiatives.
2 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 1.03 1.26 This helps us to ensure best-practice Gender diversity % women employed 22 24 sharing across our plant network so that Training hours thousand hours 134 128 we can implement specific action plans where required.
Energy consumption million GJ 2.69 2.76 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 0.25 0.26 2 Environmental management % of operations certified to certification ISO 14001 standards 83 84 Hygiene certification % food contact operations certified to recognised food hygiene standards 100 94 1 Refer to notes 32 and 33 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for basis of restatement 2 2017 TRCR has been restated to include acquisitions completed in 2016 and 2017 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 10.4% 10.7% 10.5% 10.4% 9.0%
