Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective IFRS 16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 and it is expected to apply to an entitys first annual statement beginning on standards, amendments and interpretations adopted during the period continued or after 1 January 2019.
It eliminates the current IAS 17 dual accounting model, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method without practical expedients, with the effect of initially applying leases and off-balance sheet operating leases and, instead, introduces a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar to this standard recognised at the date of initial application i. e. 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, and as the policies applied in the prior year current finance lease accounting.
were appropriate under IFRS 15 the information presented for 2017 has not been restated i. e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18, IAS 11 and related interpretations.
Additionally, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 have not generally been applied to A systematic review has been undertaken to identify the Groups leases and quantify the impact on Financial Statements and key comparative information.
The material leases relate to the Groups Land and Buildings.
From the review there is expected to be a reasonable impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with recognition of the lease assets and lease liabilities for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments property leases, in addition to some impact on adjusted EBITDA as a result of reduced rental costs as well as an impact on Adjusted EPS IFRS 9 sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell due to increased depreciation and finance costs.
The option for transition to be taken by the Group is the modified retrospective non-financial items.
This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The main Group financial approach under IFRS 16. statement captions to be impacted are investments and trade receivables.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 9, the Group is classifying its investments at fair value through other comprehensive income, with any resultant unrealised gains or losses going through other The estimated impact on 2019 opening assets and liabilities caused by IFRS 16 changes is summarised in the below table.
The new single expected credit loss impairment model is now applied in calculating the provision for credit losses.
Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been applied retrospectively.
2019 Revised Opening Consolidated 2019 Opening Consolidated Financial Position after applying IFRS 9 contains three principal classification categories for financial assets: measured at amortised cost, FVOCI and FVTPL.
The Statement of Financial Position IFRS 16 adjustments classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is generally based on the business model in which a financial asset is managed and its contractual cash flow characteristics.
IFRS 9 eliminates the previous IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, loans and receivables and Impact on consolidated statement of Financial position available for sale.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives embedded in contracts where the host is a financial asset in the scope of the standard are Assets m 293.6 325.3 never separated.
Instead, the hybrid financial instrument as a whole is assessed for classification.
Liabilities m 93.1 122.5 The estimated impact on financial performance in 2019 for leases in existence at the reporting date is expected to be an increase in IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities.
both EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA of around 3.0m, with depreciation and interest also expected to increase by around 2.6m and 1.1m respectively.
The expected impact on both basic EPS and adjusted EPS in 2019 is a decrease of 0.1p.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has not had a significant effect on the Groups accounting policies related to financial assets or financial liabilities.
Acquisitions and disposals The following table explains the original measurement categories under IAS 19 and the new measurement categories under IFRS 9 for decision technologies limited each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 1 January 2018.
There has been no effect on the carrying amounts On 9 August 2018, the Group acquired a 100% shareholding in Decision Technologies Limited for consideration of 40.6m paid in cash and from adopting IFRS 9.
This acquisition was driven by the strategic intent to enter the B2B segment, whilst providing Decision Technologies Limited with the platform to enable development within new verticals such as Home Services, Insurance and Money.
Original New Original classification New classification carrying amount carrying amount Financial Assets under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 podium solutions limited On 26 March 2018, the Group acquired a 50% shareholding in Podium Solutions Limited for 200,000.
A further investment was Equity securities Available-for-sale FVOCI equity instrument 1.7 1.7 completed on 14 December 2018 for 66,700 that maintained the Groups 50% shareholding.
At the same time the Group invested in Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost 43.1 43.1 733,300 of loan notes that was matched by other investors.
Neither the Group nor any of the other shareholders in Podium Solutions Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Amortised cost 44.8 44.8 Limited hold a majority shareholding or have direct rights or obligations to the assets or liabilities of the joint arrangement and therefore Total financial assets 89.6 89.6 Podium Solutions is accounted for as a joint venture using the equity accounting method.
social significance limited Original New On 22 February 2016, the Group acquired a 12.8% shareholding in Social Significance Limited for consideration of 0.5m paid in cash.
Original classification New classification carrying amount carrying amount Financial Liabilities under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 Accordingly 0.5m of investments was recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in 2016 in relation to the acquisition.
This shareholding was disposed of on 27 January 2017, resulting in a profit on disposal of 1.1m in 2017.
Borrowings Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 15.0 15.0 Trade and other payables Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 59.6 59.6 other investments Total financial liabilities 74.6 74.6 Three small minority investments totalling 0.5m were made during the year in fintech businesses.
These equity securities represent investments that the Group intends to hold for the long term for strategic purposes.
As permitted by IFRS 9, the Group has designated these investments at the date of initial application as measured at FVOCI.
Unlike IAS 39, the accumulated fair value reserve related to these investments will never be reclassified to profit or loss Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 96 97
