Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Corporate information Year ended Year ended The Consolidated Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, a public company incorporated in England registered at 31 december 31 December 2018 2017 MoneySuperMarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, UK, CH5 3UZ, and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2018, Note m m were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 13 February 2019.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and the operating activities Companies Act 2006 where applicable.
The presentation currency of these Financial Statements is sterling.
All amounts in the Financial Profit for the year 86.6 78.1 Statements have been rounded to the nearest 1,000,000.
The Company has elected to prepare its Company Financial Statements in Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash flow from operating activities: accordance with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: these are presented on pages Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 1.4 1.2 114 to 119.
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 13.3 19.5 Share of loss of joint venture 13 0.2 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Profit on disposal of associate 26 0.9 Basis of preparation Profit on disposal of investment 26 1.1 The Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except where otherwise stated.
Comparative figures presented in the Impairment of intangible assets 12 9.3 Financial Statements represent the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Impairment of tangible assets 12 0.8 which the Directors deem appropriate, given the Groups positive net cash position, continued growth and forecast profitability.
Net finance costs 7 0.9 0.8 Equitysettled share-based payment transactions 20 0.8 2.0 use of estimates and judgements Tax charge 8 20.3 18.0 The preparation of Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application Change in trade and other receivables 6.9 3.6 of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Change in trade and other payables 7.9 1.9 Tax paid 18.7 18.9 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
net cash flow from operating activities 106.6 106.3 Investing activities Revenue accruals are calculated by applying revenue per transaction based on historic trends to the number of clicks tracked.
Interest received 7 0.2 0.1 Acquisition of investment 1.5 0.4 Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties at 31 December 2018 that may have a risk of resulting in an adjustment to Disposal of associate 0.9 the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year is included in the following notes: Note 14 revenue recognition focusing on the revenue accrued that has not been received in cash at the balance sheet date Disposal of investment 1.5 Note 25 acquisition of subsidiary the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 11 6.5 1.5 Acquisition of intangible assets 12 12.9 19.4 Information about judgements made in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effects on the amounts recognised in Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 25 33.8 the financial statements is included in the following notes: net cash used in investing activities 54.5 18.8 Note 4 operating segments definition of segments Note 12 capitalisation of software and development costs and reallocation of goodwill Financing activities Note 13 joint ventures determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint venture or a joint operation Proceeds from share issue 0.7 0.7 Proceeds from borrowings 18 127.5 57.5 Basis of consolidation Repayment of borrowings 18 112.5 57.5 These Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Purchase of shares by employee trusts 0.7 2.7 Purchase of own shares 40.0 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns Payment of transaction costs relating to financing facilities 0.2 from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The acquisition date is Interest paid 7 0.6 0.4 the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated Distribution in relation to Long Term Incentive Plan 0.3 0.3 financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Dividends paid 10 56.5 54.1 net cash used in financing activities 42.4 97.0 Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 9.7 9.5 assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 35.1 44.6 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 44.8 35.1 Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and OCI of equity accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
Changes in liabilities from financing activities Accounting for business combinations loans and From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
The change borrowings in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
m Balance at 1 January 2018 Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: changes from financing cash flows the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus Proceeds from borrowings 127.5 the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus Repayment of borrowings 112.5 if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less total changes from financing cash flows 15.0 the net recognised amount fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Balance at 31 december 2018 15.0 When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
M Mo on ne ey ys su up pe er rm mar ark ke et t.. c co om m G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc cA An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 M Mo on ne ey ys su up pe er rm mar ark ke et t.. c co om m G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc cA An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 90 91 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in Goodwill connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any contingent amount payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent amount is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent amount Other intangible assets are recognised in profit or loss.
Where the contingent amount is dependent on future employment, it is treated as a cost of continuing The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, employment, and therefore is recognised as an expense over the relevant period.
intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All the Groups intangible assets other than goodwill have been identified as having finite useful lives.
As such, they are amortised on a straight-line Deferred consideration comprises obligations to pay specified amounts at future dates, i. e. there is no uncertainty about the amount to basis over their useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be be paid.
It is recognised and measured at Fair Value at the date of acquisition and it is included in the consideration transferred.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life, is reviewed at least at unwinding of any interest element or deferred consideration is recognised in the Income Statement.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010 For acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Market-related 10 years Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Customer relationships 7 years acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Customer lists 3 years Technology 3-5 years Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Internally generated and other intangible assets are amortised under the same method as noted above.
The Group was established via a series of transactions that occurred concurrently on 22 June 2007.
These comprised the incorporation Market-related intangible assets are defined as those that are primarily used in the marketing or promotion of products and services, of the Company with Simon Nixon as sole shareholder, the acquisition by the Company using a share for share exchange of Simon for example trademarks, trade names and internet domain names.
com Financial Group Limited and the acquisition by the Company of all other shares in Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited from third parties.
The acquisition of Simon Nixons shares was between two parties, Customer-related intangible assets consist of customer lists, customer contracts and relationships, and non-contractual customer being Simon Nixon and the Company, who were under common control at the time of the transaction.
The acquisition was of an interest relationships.
For accounting purposes, customer relationships and customer lists have been identified separately.
Relationships with in a company which gave the investor a significant influence in the company and it was concluded that this arrangement was a common high-profile customers provide the Group with prominence in the marketplace, create volume and traffic on the website, and enhance control transaction and not within the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
As a result the Company accounted for this 45% interest the reputation of the brand.
Customer lists allow the Group to undertake targeted marketing activities.
com Financial Group Limited at original carrying value rather than fair value at the date of the acquisition.
The acquisition of the remaining shares in Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited was accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Technology-based intangible assets relate to innovations and technical advances such as computer software, patented and unpatented Business Combinations applying the accounting guidance for a business combination achieved in stages.
This resulted in the fair value of technology, databases and trade secrets.
Costs that are directly attributable to projects of capital nature are recognised as technologythe identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited being recognised in full based intangible assets controlled by the Group are recognised when the following criteria are met: and the goodwill in respect of the acquisition from third parties being recognised.
it is technically feasible to complete the project so that it will be available for use: management intends to complete the project and use it: Revenue there is an ability to use or sell the project: The Group generates fees from internet lead generation click based revenue, commissions from brokerage sales and advertising it can be demonstrated how the project will generate probable future economic benefits: through a variety of contractual arrangements.
The Group recognises click based revenues and associated costs when a customer adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use output of the project is available: and obtains control of the goods or services, in accordance with IFRS 15.
Brokerage commissions are recognised at the point of completion the expenditure attributable to the project during its development can be reliably measured.
of the transaction with the customer.
See page 95 for the change in accounting policy disclosure.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the project can include employee and contractor costs.
Other development Advertising revenue is recognised in the period when an advertisement is delivered to the end user.
Revenue is recognised net of value expenditures that do not meet these criteria, as well as ongoing maintenance and costs associated with routine upgrades and added tax.
enhancements, are recognised as an expense as incurred.
cost of sales Impairment The Group recognises associated costs of internet lead generation in the period that the lead is generated.
Costs in respect of cashback The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such payments made by the Group to customers are included in cost of sales.
indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
property, plant and equipment An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of For the purposes of impairment reviews, the recoverable amount of the Groups assets is taken to be the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and their value in use.
Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each part of Impairment of financial assets an item of property, plant and equipment.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until brought into use.
The estimated useful Financial instruments and contract assets Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 Expected Credit Losses ECLs' are a probabilitylives are as follows: weighted estimate of credit losses.
Credit losses are measured as the present value of all cash shortfalls i. e. the difference between the cash flows due to the Group in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive.
ECLs are discounted Buildings 50 years at the effective interest rate of the financial asset.
Plant and equipment including IT equipment 3 years The Group recognises loss allowances for ECLs on financial assets measured at amortised cost.
The Group measures loss allowances at Fixtures and fittings 5 years an amount equal to lifetime ECLs.
Loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets are always measured at an amount equal to Office equipment 5 years lifetime ECLs.
The useful lives and depreciation rates are reassessed at each reporting date.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating ECLs, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Groups historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-looking information.
The Group assumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly if it is more than 30 days past due.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 92 93 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Finance income The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
Finance income comprises interest receivable, which is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as it accrues using the effective interest method.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial assets carried at amortised cost and debt securities at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income FVOCI' are credit-impaired.
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a Finance costs detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
Finance costs comprise of interest charged on borrowings.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
The effective interest rate method is then used for subsequent re-measurement of borrowings at amortised cost.
Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
operating leases The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when the Group has no reasonable expectations of recovering a financial Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis asset in its entirety or a portion thereof.
For individual customers, the Group has a policy of writing off the gross carrying amount when over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the financial asset is 180 days past due based on historical experience of recoveries of similar assets.
economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed.
Lease incentives and rent-free periods are amortised through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income over the term of the relevant lease.
Investments in equity securities Fixed asset and short term investments in equity securities held by the Group are classified as FVOCI equity instruments and are dividends stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the fair value reserve.
Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
The carrying amounts of new investments as at 31 December 2018 are shown in the below table.
The investments are held at fair value and therefore carrying value at 31 December 2018 is the fair value.
taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Carrying value as at Comprehensive Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
31 December 2018 Investments in Equity Securities m Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates in force for the year, and any adjustment to Truelayer Limited 0.4 tax payable in respect of previous years.
By Miles Ltd 0.2 Plum Fintech Limited 0.2 Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition total 0.8 of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable Research and development future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income when incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised when it meets the criteria outlined in IAS 38.
Expenditure that does not meet the criteria is expensed directly to the Consolidated Statement of A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Comprehensive Income.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised at the expected future tax rate of the value of the intangible assets with finite lives which are cash and cash equivalents acquired through business combinations representing the tax effect of the amortisation of these assets in future periods.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
These liabilities will decrease in line with the amortisation of the related intangible assets, with the deferred tax credit recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in accordance with IAS 12. employee benefits Defined contribution plans Research and development tax credits are accounted for in accordance with IAS 20 as a government grant.
The credit is recognised once Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
Reserve for own shares Share-based payment transactions The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
In connection with these, shares in the Company are The Groups share schemes allow certain Group employees to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The fair value of share awards held by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT are required to be consolidated within these accounts as it made is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at award date and is deemed to be under fide facto control of the Group.
The assets of the EBT mainly comprise Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC shares, spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The fair values of the share awards which are shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
are measured using the Monte Carlo method for options subject to a market-based condition and the Black-Scholes model for all others, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to standards, amendments and interpretations adopted during the period reflect the number of share awards expected to vest.
The Group has adopted the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not had a significant impact on the Groups results: Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Comprehensive Income as the related service is provided.
IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaced IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or deferred bonus plan if the Group has a control of the goods or services.
Determining the timing of the transfer of control at a point in time or over time requires judgement.
present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
The Groups deferred bonus plans currently do not have any ongoing performance obligations and are therefore The standard introduces a new revenue recognition model that recognised revenue either at a point in time or over time.
The model provided for as described above in the period to which they related.
features a contract-based five-step analysis of transactions to determine whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
During 2017, a systematic review was conducted to ensure that the changes in the new standard are complied with.
This involved a portfolioAdvertising costs based contract review focussing on those verticals channels most likely to be impacted by IFRS 15 and individual contract sampling from The Group incurs costs from advertising via a number of different media.
Costs associated with the production of adverts are these portfolios to assess the impact of IFRS 15.
From this review, it was determined that no changes are required to our current recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income only once the advert is available to the Group in a revenue recognition methods as these are still within adherence of IFRS 15. format ready for use, having been approved for airing or displaying.
The cost of airing or displaying the advert is taken as an expense in the period in which the advert is aired or displayed.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 94 95
