Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies share-based payment transactions The Groups share schemes allow certain Group employees to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The fair value of share awards Basis of preparation made is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at award date and Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company is a public company limited by shares and incorporated and domiciled in England, spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The fair value of the awards made is UK.
The registered office is disclosed on page 78. measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of share awards expected to vest.
Subsidiaries are recharged for the These Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable amount recognised as share-based payments relating to awards to their employees.
The fair value of the recharge is recognised over the in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102.
The presentation currency of these Financial Statements is sterling.
All amounts in the vesting period.
Financial Statements have been rounded to the nearest 100,000.
These Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit after tax for dividends the Company was 198.7m 2017: loss of 1.8m which included dividends received of 200.0m 2017: nil.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the shareholders right to FRS 102 grants certain first-time adoption exemptions from the full requirements of FRS 102, and the following exemptions were taken receive payment is established.
in the 2015 Financial Statements: Business combinations Business combinations that took place prior to transition date have not been restated.
taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the profit and loss account except to the The Company is the ultimate parent undertaking of the Group and also prepares Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and are available to the public and may be obtained from MoneySuperMarket House, St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, CH5 3UZ.
In these Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates in force for the year, and any adjustment to Financial Statements, the Company is considered to be a qualifying entity for the purposes of this FRS and has applied the exemptions tax payable in respect of previous years.
available under FRS 102 in respect of the following disclosures: Cash Flow Statement and related notes: and Deferred tax is provided on timing differences which arise from the inclusion of income and expenses in tax assessments in periods Key Management Personnel compensation.
different from those in which they are recognised in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences arising because certain types of income or expense are non-taxable or are disallowable for tax or because certain tax charges or As the Consolidated Financial Statements include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 102 allowances are greater or smaller than the corresponding income or expense.
available in respect of the following disclosures: Certain disclosures required by FRS 102.26 Share Based Payments: and, Deferred tax is measured at the tax rate that is expected to apply to the reversal of the related difference, using tax rates enacted or The disclosures required by FRS 102.11 Basic Financial Instruments and FRS 102.12 Other Financial Instrument Issues in respect of substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
financial instruments not falling within the fair value accounting rules of Paragraph 36 4 of Schedule 1.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that is it probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these liabilities or other future taxable profits.
Share-based payments use of estimates and judgements The analysis and disclosures in relation to share-based payments are given in the Consolidated Financial Statements in note 20.
The preparation of Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from 3.
Staff numbers and cost these estimates.
The average number of persons employed by the Company including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period Number of number of in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
employees employees 31 december 31 December 2018 2017 There are no significant estimates or judgements made in preparation of these Financial Statements.
Administration 2 2 Investments Investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: Bank borrowings 31 december 31 December Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including 2018 2017 direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest method and are added to the m m carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Wages and salaries 1.0 1.0 Social security costs 0.1 0.1 own shares held by employee Benefit trust Other pension costs 0.2 0.2 Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected Share-based payments 0.2 1.1 in the Company Financial Statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited directly to equity.
1.7 2.4 In addition to the above, bonuses of 0.7m 2017: 0.8m were payable in relation to the reporting period.
Directors remuneration is disclosed on pages 68-73.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 116 117
