External context 14 Financial performance 64 12 Strategic Our business model 18 Business reviews 68 Our strategy and strategic performance 26 Fibre Packaging 70 report Key performance indicators 36 Consumer Packaging 76 Principal risks 38 Uncoated Fine Paper 80 Sustainability performance 48 The Strategic report was approved by the Boards Peter Oswald Andrew King on 27 February 2019 and is signed on their behalf by: Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 Contributing to a better world We want to make our processes and products sustainable.
This includes securing wood from responsible sources, minimising waste from our operations and working with customers to create As one of our EcoSolutions that arereusable, recyclable, strategic value drivers, and or compostable.
growing responsibly is an integral part of 71% our future success.
Wood certified to FSC or PEFC Gladys Naylor Group Head of Sustainable Sustainability performance Development Page 48-63 Mondi wiecie has reduced waste going to landfill from 100% in 2003 to only 1% today everything else is recycled and or reused.
Business review: Fibre Packaging Page 74 14 External context Opportunities and challenges in a rapidly changing world We operate in a fast-paced world with diverse Mondi is well-positioned to proactively and complex issues impacting the planet, respondto three of the most relevant themes: society and the way we do business.
e Enhancing brand value Our success is built on our ability to anticipate e Digitalisation and interconnectivity and respond to the challenges and opportunities e Sustainability we face today and in the future, partnering withothers to find long-term solutions.
Enhancing brand value Pre and post consumption, our Our range of shelf-ready packaging and Overview and challenges consumers and customers expect point-of-sale display solutions help our A rising middle class in emerging markets, our packaging to be sustainably customers reduce handling costs while an ageing population in the developed disposable and made using minimum enhancing shelf attractiveness with world, urbanisation and evolving lifestyles materials renewable and recyclable our high-quality and visually impactful globally are changing the way brand wherever possible.
owners engage with their customers.
Whether through traditional retail and Enhancing brand value also means Opportunities and how distribution or growing e-commerce designing packaging that prioritises we are responding channels, brand owners are under functionality.
For example, developing increased pressure to differentiate We continue to invest for growth to tailored solutions that make brands more themselves from competitors.
2018 was enhance our product and service useful by adding convenience features to a year in which bricks and mortar stores offering and we are leading the industry ensure that the packaging is easy to use, and e-commerce came closer together, as in innovative design for EcoSolutions: easy to store and extends the product smart brands recognised the consumers paper where possible, plastic when useful.
This can include hassle-free desire to interact with brands physically With our six specialised R&D centres and openings, reclosability features, multias well as virtually and increasingly to global reach, we develop partnerships barriers and on-the-go solutions.
with our customers to create innovative We also know how important it is for us to and appealing packaging designs that In this interconnected world, packaging help our customers to stay competitive by portray our customers brand values has become the key link for the consumer simplifying their processes and reducing and differentiate them either on the store across multiple senses sight, touch, costs, while still creating packaging that shelf or when their customers receive the sound and smell.
For our customers, exceeds customer expectations.
great packaging embodies brand values and offers a consumer experience which stands out from the crowd.
On or offline, packaging is the first Spotlight on packaging for premium brands interaction the consumer has with a product, so it plays a critical role in the Benetton shopping bags decision making process.
We expect a lot from packaging.
It needs to catch the Premium brands like Benetton eye, which for well-known brands means can enhance their customers being immediately recognisable, and experience with luxurious, natural for challenger brands it means stealing and sustainable shopping bags made from Mondis speciality attention away from the familiar.
Our shoppingworld consumer first touches the packaging it portfolio is built on consumer needs to represent the brands quality trend insights, branding expertise and paper grades that combine and value.
In addition, it still has to protect high functionality with outstanding the product through a frustration free printability.
A shopping bag is more packaging journey from manufacture than a useful transportation vehicle.
to consumption, whether it is fragile, It is part of the brand experience.
A superior product loses value in awkwardly shaped, heavy or vulnerable.
If retailers get this right, consumers reuse their bag as an accessory and an expression of their lifestyle and thus become valuable brand ambassadors.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Digitalisation and interconnectivity It is more important than ever that We have digitalisation projects underway Overview and challenges business improves transparency of global across a number of business areas to Accelerating technological innovation supply chains and new technologies can enhance customer satisfaction, drive brings new opportunities for Mondi as well help address risks related to human performance, optimise pricing and facilitate as our customers.
For Mondi, it means rights and environmental impacts of customer collaboration 24 7. going beyond the automation of repetitive, supply chains.
We are training our Operational efficiency initiatives include employees to maximise the effectiveness For our customers, digitalisation has brought further improved production process of automation so they can focus on opportunities to reach new and existing stability and product quality, reduced waste the roles that humans still do best consumers far beyond the boundaries of and predictive maintenance.
However, growing online Digitalisation enables a greater level Technology will make us effective, but its retail activity requires efficient primary and of traceability within our supply chain our people who make us smart.
secondary packaging solutions to protect with a focus on raw material sourcing, and track goods in transit, while optimising Technology also supports transparency.
Across our supply chain, packaging requirements and minimising With widespread use of the internet, we promote transparency through active waste.
E-commerce is rapidly growing mobile technology and social media, engagement with customers, consumers and transforming the retail landscape.
society now has greater access to and the wider public about how we do With packaging for e-commerce expected a muchwider range of information business.
Using digital technology we to grow at an annual growth rate of 11% in and the ability to use their collective are able to standardise and strengthen 1 Europe and 14% globally, it provides us with power to shape business and influence our social and environmental practices significant growth opportunities with the right public policy.
In the eyes of todays through analysis, monitoring and inpackaging solutions.
stakeholders, businesses are responsible depth reviews of activities within our for managing their impact not only within supply chain.
This enables us to address, Opportunities and how their own operations, but also across manage and mitigate risks.
we are responding their increasingly complex supply chains including our customers customers.
The digital revolution is creating 1 Smithers Pira, The Future of e-commerce packaging to 2022 opportunities for us to scrutinise our production processes, supply chains, customer interfaces and employee engagement platforms to explore new ways of working to better achieve our purpose.
Spotlight on e-commerce Mondi Vino Box Sprint The digital era has transformed Speed of filling can also make a the way we consume goods.
difference to a busy e-commerce Mondis strong portfolio of business, so we developed Mondi corrugated e-commerce solutions Vino Box Sprint for online wine and MailerBAG, our paper-based merchants.
It can safely ship up e-commerce bag, are made to six wine bottles and is 100% from renewable materials and recyclable.
There is no additional protect goods in transit, giving assembly needed, it simply our customers the possibility pops up from a flat pack with an to differentiate themselves integrated divider, instantly ready by enhancing the consumer to fill.
The result is a saving of up to experience.
We also optimise 80% in assembly time compared to packaging sizes to avoid wasteful standard wine packaging.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
