238 Shareholder information Share certificates on the South African registers of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc may not be dematerialised or rematerialised between Wednesday 10 April 2019 and Sunday 14 April 2019, both dates inclusive, nor may transfers between the UK and South African registers of Mondi plc take place between Saturday 6 April 2019 and Sunday 14 April 2019, both dates inclusive.
Dividend tax will be withheld from the amount of the gross final ordinary dividend paid to Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register at the rate of 20%, unless a shareholder qualifies for an exemption.
Your dividend currency All dividends are declared in euro but are paid in the following currencies: Mondi Limited South African rand Mondi plc euro Mondi plc UK residents pound sterling Mondi plc South African residents South African rand e Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register resident in the UK may elect to receive their dividends in euro e Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register resident outside the UK may elect to receive their dividends in pound sterling Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register wishing to elect to receive their dividends in an alternative currency should contact Link Asset Services in the UK using the details provided.
Payment of your dividends Mondi encourages shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into their bank accounts.
This means that the dividend will reach your bank account more securely and on the payment date without the inconvenience of depositing a cheque.
Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register e Shareholders with a South African bank account can elect to receive dividends directly into their bank account by contacting Link Market Services.
e Shareholders without a South African bank account are encouraged to dematerialise their shares with a CSDP in South Africa as a CSDP is often able to pay dividends into foreign bank accounts.
Find out more by contacting Link Market Services or any CSDP.
Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register e Shareholders with a UK bank account can elect to receive dividends directly into their bank account via Signal Shares or by contacting Link Asset Services.
e Shareholders without a UK bank account may be able to take advantage of the International Payment Service offered by Link Asset Services.
Find out more via Signal Shares or by contacting Link Asset Services.
Reinvest your dividends The dividend reinvestment plans DRIPs provide an opportunity for shareholders to have their Mondi Limited and Mondi plc cash dividends reinvested in Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shares respectively.
The plans are available to all Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shareholders excluding those in certain restricted jurisdictions.
If you wish to participate in the DRIPs you can sign up via Signal Shares or by contacting either Link Market Services in South Africa or Link Asset Services in the UK as appropriate.
South African dematerialisation Mondi encourages Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register to consider dematerialising their shares.
By surrendering your share certificate, you will hold your shares electronically with a CSDP in South Africa.
Holding shares electronically can help to prevent share fraud, theft and loss of share certificates.
Once dematerialised, your dividends can be paid directly into a bank account and your shares will be easier to sell.
Taxation Mondi is unable to advise shareholders on taxation.
Your tax obligations will vary depending on your jurisdiction and financial circumstances.
With regard to your Mondi shareholding, we recommend all shareholders maintain records of dividend payments, share purchases and sales.
A dividend confirmation will be sent with all dividend payments.
For further assistance, please speak to an independent professional tax or financial adviser.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 239 Donating shares to charity If you have a small number of shares which would cost you more to sell than they are worth, there is the option to donate these unwanted shares to charity free of charge.
These shares are then aggregated, sold and the proceeds distributed to various charities.
Donate your shares or find out more using the relevant contact details below: Mondi Limited shares or Mondi plc shares Mondi plc shares on the South African branch register on the UK register Strate Charity Shares ShareGift Postal address PO Box 78608 PO Box 72253 Sandton, 2146 London South Africa SW1P 9LQ UK Helpline number 0800 202 363 44 0 20 7930 3737 if calling from South Africa 27 11 870 8207 if calling from outside South Africa Email charityshares@computershare.
org Fraud Shareholders should be aware that they may be targeted by certain organisations offering unsolicited investment advice or the opportunity to buy or sell worthless or non-existent shares.
Should you receive any unsolicited calls or documents to this effect, you are advised not to give out any personal details or to hand over any money without ensuring that the organisation is authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA and doing further research.
If you are unsure or think you may have been targeted you should report the organisation to the FCA.
For further information, please visit the FCAs website at www.
uk or call the FCA consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 if calling from the UK or 44 20 7066 1000 if calling from outside the UK.
Shareholders can also contact Link Asset Services in the UK, Link Market Services in South Africa or Mondis company secretarial department on 44 0 1932 826300.
Account amalgamations If you receive more than one copy of any documents sent out by Mondi or for any other reason you believe you may have more than one Mondi Limited or Mondi plc account, please contact the relevant Registrar who will be able to confirm and, if necessary, arrange for the accounts to be amalgamated into one.
Alternative formats If you would like to receive this report in an alternative format, such as in large print, Braille or in audio format, please contact Mondis company secretarial department on 44 0 1932 826300.
Mondi Limited Mondi plc Registered and head office Registered office th st 4 Floor Building 1, 1 Floor No.
3 Melrose Boulevard Aviator Park Melrose Arch 2196 Station Road Gauteng Addlestone Republic of South Africa Surrey KT15 2PG Tel.
44 0 1932 826300 Registered in South Africa Fax.
1967 013038 06 Registered in England and Wales Registered No.
com Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 240 Glossary of terms In addition to the terms explained below, the Group presents certain financial measures that are not defined or specified according to IFRS.
These measures, referred to as Alternative Performance Measures APMs, are defined in note 32 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements.
A full glossary of  terms can be found in Mondis online Sustainable development report 2018.
Circular economy GHG and CO e Specific 2 Greenhouse gases GHG are gases Figures reported in specific terms are An industrial system that is restorative listed in the Kyoto Protocol of the United normalised to saleable production tonnes.
or regenerative by intention and design.
Nations Framework Convention on Climate It replaces the end-of-life concept with SDGs Change UN-FCCC that contribute to the restoration, shifts towards the use of The UN Sustainable Development greenhouse effect and are regulated by the renewable energy, eliminates the use of Goals were launched in 2015, involving Kyoto Protocol.
We convert non-CO GHGs toxic chemicals which impair reuse, and 2 a comprehensive, far-reaching and such as CH or N O into an amount of 4 2 aims for the elimination of waste through people-centred set of 17 universal and CO with an equivalent warming potential.
the superior design of materials, products, 2 transformative goals and 169 targets.
Total GHG emissions are the sum of the systems and business models.
They are integrated and indivisible, and will Ellen MacArthur Foundation definition equivalent amount of CO for each GHG, 2 stimulate action over the next years until abbreviated as CO e. 2 CoC 2030 in areas of critical importance for humanity and the planet: people, planet, Scope 1 emissions Chain-of-Custody is a tracking system prosperity, peace and partnerships.
that allows manufacturers and traders Total GHG emissions from sources owned to demonstrate that timber comes from or controlled by Mondi and its subsidiaries.
TRCR a forest that is responsibly managed in This includes CO e from fossil fuels and 2 Total recordable case rate is calculated as accordance with credible standards.
processes, company leased owned the number of total recordable cases the vehicles, waste and waste water treatment, COD sum of fatalities, lost-time injuries, restricted make-up chemicals, and other GHGs.
work cases, medical treatment cases Chemical oxygen demand is a measure and compensated occupational illnesses of the oxygen consuming capacity of Scope 2 emissions divided by the number of hours worked per inorganic and organic matter present in Total GHG emissions from sources that are 200,000 man hours.
It is a metric for emissions related to generation of purchased energy to water.
TRS outside the company boundaries.
TM Total reduced sulphur compounds, FSC Scope 3 emissions generated in the pulping process, and a Forest Stewardship Council is an source of odorous emissions to air.
international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder Total GHG emissions from the production of fuel and raw materials business travel: organisation established in 1993 to promote UNGC socially and environmentally responsible raw materials: transport of products and United Nations Global Compact is a raw materials: and employee commuting.
management of the worlds forests by way strategic policy initiative for businesses that of standard setting, third-party certification GRI are committed to aligning their operations and labelling of forest products.
and strategies with 10 universally accepted The Global Reporting Initiative is a not-forTM PEFC principles in the areas of human rights, profit organisation that produces one of Programme for the Endorsement of Forest labour, environment and anti-corruption.
the worlds most prevalent frameworks for Certification is an international notsustainability reporting.
for-profit non-government organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management through independent thirdparty certification.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Forward-looking statements This document includes forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein, including, without limitation, those regarding Mondis financial position, business strategy, market growth and developments, expectations of growth and profitability and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forwardlooking statements.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned or anticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Mondi, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forwardlooking statements.
Such forward-looking statements and other statements contained in this document regarding matters that are not historical facts involve predictions and are based on numerous assumptions regarding Mondis present and future business strategies and the environment in which Mondi will operate in the future.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved: various factors could cause actual future results, performance or events to differ materially from those described in these statements.
Such factors include in particular but without any limitation: 1 operating factors, such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development plans and targets, changes in the degree of protection created by Mondis patents and other intellectual property rights and the availability of capital on acceptable terms: 2 industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for Mondis products and raw materials and the pricing pressures thereto, financial condition of the customers, suppliers and the competitors of Mondi and potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors: and 3 general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in Mondis principal geographical markets or fluctuations of exchange rates and interest rates.
Mondi expressly disclaims a any warranty or liability as to accuracy or completeness of the information provided herein: and b any obligation or undertaking to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to update any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in Mondis expectations or any events that occur or circumstances that arise after the date of making any forward-looking statements, unless required to do so by applicable law or any regulatory body applicable to Mondi, including the JSE Limited and the LSE.
This document includes market share estimates prepared by the Group based on industry publications and management estimates.
Main industry publication sources are: Fastmarkets RISI, Pyry, Henry Poole Consulting, Eurosac, Freedonia, Alexander Watson Associates, PCI Wood Mackenzie, EMGE, EURO-GRAPH and eastconsult.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Mondi investor relations team st Building 1, 1 floor, Aviator Park Station Road, Addlestone Surrey KT15 2PG, UK 44 1932 826 300 www.
com Our 2018 suite of reports Please visit our Group website where copies of our reports can be downloaded: www.
com reports18 Integrated report and Sustainable Development financial statements 2018 report 2018 A balanced overview of Mondis A comprehensive view of our approach performance in 2018 and insight into how to sustainable development and our our approach to strategy, governance, performance in 2018, prepared in people and performance combine to accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Printed on certified Mondi PERGRAPHICA generate value in a sustainable way.
Available online as an interactive Classic Rough in 300gsm, 120gsm and 90gsm Also available online at pdf at www.
com ir18 Printing: CPI Colour | www.
co. uk Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
