16 External context Sustainability Demand for sustainable packaging and Much more rapid climate change Urban centres are estimated to generate paper solutions is fortunately here to stay.
80% of economic growth: the potential Dramatic changes due to climate change Consumers around the globe are increasingly exists to apply modern technologies and are already occurring at a faster rate than infrastructure, promoting better use of demanding packaging solutions that are expected.
Climate change will worsen 3 sourced, produced and can be disposed of scarce resources.
the outlook for the availability of critical responsibly.
The legitimacy of a compelling resources such as food, water and energy.
business model will be increasingly linked Access to sustainable fibre The severity of existing weather patterns to the real value created for society as a is set to intensify in future, with wet areas Forests are core to the cultures and livelihoods whole.
Products manufactured within the getting even more wet, and dry and arid of communities worldwide with some limits of the planet, and that enable society 3 areas becoming more so.
In recent years, 1.6 billion people relying on them for their to address its challenges, make clear social, 6 the extremely dry summers in Europe have livelihoods.
Deforestation and illegal logging environmental and business sense, and led to water shortages that have impacted contribute to biodiversity loss and climate open up opportunities for brand growth on a businesses including packaging and change, negatively impacting on ecosystem global scale.
Below are the most important paper manufacturers.
services, and encroaching on the livelihoods sustainability themes that we see affecting our and human rights of people around the The 2018 IPCC Special Report on Global business today and in future.
The last few decades have seen a Warming of 1.5C states that limiting slowdown in net global deforestation, and in global warming to 1.5C would require Overview and challenges Europe forests are not declining.
More forest rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented areas are coming under protection and The cost of unnecessary plastic changes in all aspects of society, with clear more countries are actively improving forest 2018 saw unprecedented awareness about benefits to people and natural ecosystems.
Despite this, only around 11% the impact plastic has on our environment.
Achieving this will require urgent and 7 of global forests are certified and the shortage Around 25% of total plastics produced fundamental action, beyond business as of sustainable fibre on the market remains a worldwide are used for packaging, 95% usual.
Businesses have a critical part to significant challenge.
of plastic packagings material value is lost play both in reducing emissions and after a first sometimes short use, and at providing solutions for mitigating and Opportunities and how least 8 million tonnes of plastic leaks into the adapting to climate change.
1 we are responding oceans every year.
We are convinced that growing responsibly The need for resource efficiency Governments are introducing new and contributing to a better world is in the in a growing world legislation around single-use plastics and best interest of all our stakeholders and th Industrial growth since the mid-20 plastic waste and, with China previously century our continued success as a business.
the worlds largest importer of plastic has created wealth, development and Were committed to continuing this journey waste in the world no longer accepting economic growth, but it has also endangered and we constantly adjust our response the crucial ecosystems that society relies on.
imports of certain types of plastic as of to the evolving sustainable development The global population is growing at a rapid 2017, western countries are needing to landscape through the framework of pace, especially in urban areas.
We know deal with their plastic differently, leading our Growing Responsibly model, which that we use the equivalent of 1.7 planets to to even bolder targets and regulations.
explains how we approach sustainability provide resources and absorb waste, and The EU Strategy for Plastics in the Circular to create value for our business and for our scientific evidence makes it clear that we are Economy states that all plastic packaging stakeholders.
Among our 10 Action Areas pushing our planets natural systems to the should be reusable or recyclable by 2030. are sustainable fibre, climate change, 4 edge.
Demand for food, water and energy As governments and consumers increase constrained resources and environmental is set to grow substantially by 2030 food their demand for sustainable plastics, big impacts, and solutions that create value to rise by 35%, water by 40%, and energy fast moving consumer goods FMCG for our customers showing how we are 3 by 50%.
Tackling problems pertaining to and retailer brands are coming under responding to the themes set out above.
one commodity will be linked to supply and the most scrutiny for the plastic they demand for the others.
Sustainability performance use in their products and packaging.
Page 48-63 Economic development and production Many of our biggest customers have already patterns are also shifting to the east and communicated ambitious targets and they Online Sustainable development report south, with overall trade volumes, disposable are going to be relying on us to provide www.
com sd18 income and consumption rising.
The US, them with innovative high-quality sustainable European, and Japanese share of global solutions from across our product portfolio.
1 Ellen MacArthur Foundation income is projected to fall from 56% today to 2 Flexible Packaging Europe Flexible plastic, which typically uses 3 3 National Intelligence Council: Global Trends 2030 well under 50% by 2030.
5.3 billion people 2 70% less material than rigid plastic 4 Footprint Network and WWF Living Planet, and are expected to make up the middle classes Report 2018 innovative plastic-paper combinations can 5 5 World Data Lab by 2030, up from 3.6 billion people today, 6 WWF provide essential functionality that is critical with the middle classes in the developing 7 UNECE: Forest Products Annual Market Review 2016-2017 to fulfil the purpose of the packaging for world poised to expand substantially.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 17 In the last decade, Mondi has reduced We are working with partners across EcoSolutions: paper where the average weight of corrugated boxes our value chain to reinvent flexible plastic possible, plastic when useful and paper bags, while increasing strength packaging so that it is fit for a circular Mondi is actively leading the future of a and functionality.
Mondi is one of the first sustainable packaging industry by showing seek new sustainable product innovation signatories of The New Plastics Economy that contributing to a better world makes across both its paper and plastics business Global Commitment committing to 100% good business sense, driving innovation areas.
We are actively working with of plastic-based packaging being reusable, and change throughout the value chain.
our customers, suppliers and recycling recyclable or compostable: and 25% being We believe all packaging must be fit for companies to find innovative solutions that from recycled content where it does not purpose: paper where possible, plastic improve the sustainability of packaging.
compromise functionality or food health when useful.
We offer a range of highrequirements by 2025. performance paper-based, flexible plastic Flexible plastic packaging, when and hybrid packaging solutions.
By taking manufactured, used and disposed of We believe our flexible packaging a holistic view, we can develop packaging appropriately, delivers many benefits: from solutions can contribute towards global that considers the needs of each customer, resource efficiency by reducing material sustainable plastics, based on circular their products and the planet.
usage and being less transport intense to economy principles.
reducing food waste by enabling correct For many years Mondi has been making sized portions and extending shelf-life.
sustainable fibre-based and flexible plastic Strategic performance However, we recognise the urgent need Page 28-35 packaging for forward-thinking FMCG to collaborate to make plastic packaging Business reviews brands, and working in collaboration more circular and bring about the system Page 68-83 with sustainable materials suppliers change required in order to achieve this.
Spotlight on sustainable packaging by design perFORMing the #1 natural, Recycled washing powder brown formable paper solution packaging Newly patented Mondi perFORMing is a paper-based multilayer, Together with a recycling partner APK AG who have developed a thermoformable packaging material that reduces plastic by up to 70% process called Newcycling Mondi has tested the suitability of recycled by using coated Advantage Formable paper instead of plastic in trays polyethylene PE for multi-layer films by designing a new plastic packaging for attractive cheese and cold meat packaging.
This innovative solution, solution for washing powder that replaces up to 80% of the previously which is also recyclable in some countries, shows the unique benefits of virgin PE layer with post-industrial waste.
The result is a high-quality being able to combine expertise from our Extrusion Coatings, Speciality packaging laminate that maintains the functionality requirements of our Kraft Paper and Technical Films businesses.
customer, reduces the demand for virgin fossil based PE and achieves a packaging solution containing up to 50% recycled materials.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 18 Our business model Creating value the Mondi Way The Mondi Way is our unique framework The Mondi Way is the foundation for our for creating sustainable value.
Our purpose integrated value chain and it guides the drives our vision and provides context for our strategic, operational and stakeholder-related strategy, which we then execute through our decisions we make across our business.
operating framework, in line with our culture Our integrated value chain and values.
Page 20-21 Purpose and vision Strategy Operating framework Culture and values Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Our purpose states what Our purpose Our vision wedoand why we do it.
We delight you with innovative e To contribute to a better world Our vision sets out our and sustainable packaging long-term aspirations as we e To be an employer of choice and paper solutions.
e To be the global industry benchmark for packaging and paper Our strategy is our plan of actiondesigned to build on our competitive advantages so that wecan achieve our purpose.
We drive value accretive growth Drive performance Invest in assets Inspire our people Partner with viaour four strategic value drivers: along the with cost andgrow customers valuechain advantage responsibly for innovation Our operating framework, Cutting-edge Sustainable The Mondi Diamond, converts solutions development strategy into clear objectives that drive performance at an operational level.
Inspired Operational Successful people excellence customers Our culture and values connect, guide and inspire Passion for Acting with Caring our people.
performance integrity We are dynamic, We are respectful We encourage honesty entrepreneurial and and responsible and transparency empowered Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 20 Our business model Integrated across the value chain Our integrated value chain Our key resources Our integrated value chain provides us with competitive advantage and creates longHigh-quality, well-invested, Resins, films term value by converting raw cost-advantaged integrated assets and other raw materials materials into innovative and 80% 6bn sustainable packaging and pulp & paper capacity capital employed paper solutions, using the in two lowest cost quartiles Mondi Way as our framework.
Engagement and collaboration with customers and suppliers 9,000 1,500 Wood internal and external customers key suppliers Responsible procurement of Mondi Way raw materials and other inputs Page 18-19 71% 64% wood procured from FSC mill fuel consumption or PEFC certified sources from biomass-based renewable sources Paper for recycling Diverse and talented people 26,100 21% employees women employed across our operations Strong financial position and cash flow generation Our key relationships It is vital that we engage with our key 1,226m BBB Baa1 cash flow generated S&P Moodys credit rating stakeholders across the value chain to maintain the mutually beneficial Key stakeholder relationships relationships that help us to create longterm value.
Our stakeholders include: Numerous 79% strategic partnerships, of mills & forestry e Employees memberships & operations completed a collaborations SEAT assessment to date e Customers e Investors e Communities Forests and raw materials e Suppliers and contractors Fibre is a key input in our pulp and paper production process, with wood sourced from our own sustainably e Partners, associations, managed forests as well as externally.
In 2018, 71% governments and regulators of our procured wood was certified with the balance meeting our minimum Controlled Wood standard, Key relationships which is in line with best practice certification scheme Page 22-25 requirements.
Throughout our manufacturing activities, we require access to natural resources most notably water and energy and raw materials such as wood, paper for recycling, chemicals and polymers.
Managing our risks We support an inclusive and sustainable supply chain Successfully managing our risks and promoting responsible procurement of raw materials.
appropriately setting our risk appetite is also critical to ensuring we continue to Competitive advantages generate long-term value.
We categorise e Well located operations with access our risks into strategic risks, financial risks, to cost-competitive fibre operational risks and compliance risks.
e Own fibre supply in Russia and South Africa where we manage around 2.4 million hectares of 100% certified forests Principal risks Page 38-47 e 100% electricity self-sufficiency resulting in lower energy costs, and 64% of mill fuel consumption from biomass-based renewable sources Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 21 Our key outputs Our integrated High-performing operations value chain Page 68-69 23.6% 13 ROCE production records on pulp paper machines Innovative products and solutions 22m 8 spent on research WorldStar Packaging & development awards 2019 Sustainably managed natural resources and outputs Pulp and Converting paper mills operations 10mGJ 100% energy provided to managed forests certified communities & public grid Inspired and skilled people 30 89% average annual training participation in global hours per employee employee survey Recycling Capital appreciation and dividends to shareholders 23% 74% increase in ordinary total shareholder dividend per share return 5 years Packaging and Support to regional economies paper solutions and local communities 248m 7.9m direct taxes paid community investments Pulp and paper mills Converting operations Supporting a circular economy Our integrated pulp and paper mills produce pulp, Our fibre-based packaging operations convert packaging Fibre is a renewable resource.
Our mills use both packaging paper and uncoated fine paper.
We produce papers sourced internally and externally, together with virgin fibre and paper for recycling recovered after slightly more pulp than we need in our paper other raw materials into corrugated board and boxes, use, to produce our containerboard products.
production, and we sell the small surplus externally.
industrial bags and speciality extrusion-coated solutions Paper for recycling is an important and sustainable for a wide range of consumer and industrial end-uses.
The recovery of fibre at the end of Our containerboard and kraft paper is used by our the products life reduces waste and contributes to a converting operations, with the remainder sold to other We operate across the flexible packaging production circular economy.
Our range of uncoated fine paper includes process, from resin compounding to bag making, office and professional printing paper.
laser cutting and incorporating special features.
Our flexible plastic packaging operations use resins, Our packaging solutions protect and preserve films and other raw materials as part of the production food, pet food, personal care and other consumer process.
Mondi is working with stakeholders across products, extending shelf-life, reducing food waste and the value chain to innovate and develop sustainable enhancing consumer experience.
solutions that support a circular economy for flexible plastic packaging solutions.
We have committed to 100% of plastic-based packaging being reusable, Competitive advantages Competitive advantages recyclable or compostable, and 25% being from e High-quality, well-invested, cost-advantaged e Unique position as a leading producer of both recycled content where it does not compromise asset base with around 80% of our pulp and plastic and paper-based solutions, providing an functionality or food health requirements by 2025. paper capacity in the two lowest industry cost ideal platform to meet our customers sustainable curve quartiles packaging needs External context e Vertically integrated asset base reducing our e Leading market positions provide us the scale Page 14-17 exposure to price volatility of key raw materials and ability to service key accounts by leveraging particularly pulp, providing security of supply and our plant network enabling production and logistics optimisation e Integrated model, coupled with ongoing e Focus on excellence superior operating specialised R&D, enables us to develop performance achieved through continuous partnerships with our customers to deliver improvement initiatives and driving performance innovative and customised solutions along the entire value chain Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 22 Our business model Key relationships Our employees We have a diverse team of 26,100 people How we engage with a broad range of skills and expertise.
e Biennial group-wide In addition to on-the-job informal employee surveys communication, we regularly engage e Regular local briefing sessions with our employees through formal by managers communication channels to provide an opportunity for open dialogue and we e Electronic communications invest in training programmes to support and publications their development.
e Group-wide intranet planetmondi It is through this collaborative effort that e Performance and we resolve challenges together, enabling development reviews shared success through an engaged e Internal conferences and workforce and a performance-driven leadership forums approach.
We aim to achieve a consistent e Employee training programmes culture across our operations, with values and workshops that connect, guide and inspire our e Virtual leadership and people, thereby providing a platform for employee meetings our shared success.
Key topics discussed e Fair working conditions e Development opportunities Sustainability performance Page 48-63 e Safety Online Sustainable development report www.
com sd18 Our customers As part of our strategy, partnering with How we engage customers for innovation is a key value e Regular customer satisfaction surveys driver for our joint success.
Global trends e Collaboration on product innovation are requiring us to collaborate with our customers more than ever.
e Customer events and exhibitions We are uniquely positioned to offer our e Questionnaires 9,000 customers a range of innovative e Key account manager relationships and sustainable solutions that exceed their e Digital customer interfaces expectations and help them to meet their sustainability commitments.
We also Key topics discussed continue to strive for excellent customer service and quality, with a focus on digital e Product innovation acceleration initiatives.
e Quality Our customers know us as a partner in e Responsible sourcing their success.
By creating EcoSolutions across multiple industries, we are enhancing the value of some of the worlds best known brands, as well as local favourites.
External context Page 14-17 Strategic performance Page 28-35 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23 Spotlight on how we engage with customers to create innovative solutions The ambition required deep We are currently producing almost The inside scoop innovation know-how in ice cream five million ice cream cones every We worked step by onwhy partnering packaging to ensure that the window day and we export to virtually every helped the brand to stand out, country in Europe.
with customers step with Oexmann without compromising the sleeves makes good Mondis special sleeves are being performance.
We were the only and developed and used to package premium cones business sense supplier to accept this challenge together with Oexmanns customer and the first commercial products Estimated retail sales of the global Fonterra New Zealand.
patented a cone hit the shelves in May 2018. says ice cream market is around Sedat Igbar, European commercial The oval clear window on the cone 1 US$74 billion, and just keeps sleeve that lets ice manager at Mondi Kalenobel.
We is made of biodegradable film to growing.
Europe accounts for worked step by step with Oexmann ensure its a sustainable packaging 30% of the global ice cream cream lovers see the and developed and patented a cone solution.
We also created a small market with consumption growth sleeve that lets ice cream lovers see transparent laser-cut window on mainly driven by single portion ice the goodness inside.
1 the cone lid so that consumers can cream.
Mondi Kalenobel Turkey see the ice cream.
Fonterra liked is establishing itself as a packaging Oexmann began making ice cream Sedat Igbar it, and we are now supplying innovator in the ice cream world.
cones back in 1926 and Thomas European commercial manager custom-made lids in addition to the The team recently took on a Oexmann, grandson of founder atMondi Kalenobel cone sleeves!
customer challenge that no one Karl Oexmann, says business else dared to: producing a paper is flourishing.
ice cream cone sleeve with a clear biodegradable plastic window that allows the consumer to see the sugar wafer cone.
Family-owned sugar-cone maker Oexmann GmbH & Co. KG Germany approached Mondi to explore whether or not it could be done.
1 Euromonitor Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
