Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME MONEYSUPERMARKET.
COM GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2018 7.
Respective responsibilities continued Year ended Year ended 31 december 31 December Irregularities ability to detect 2018 2017 We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Financial Statements Note m m from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and Revenue 355.6 329.7 other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and Cost of sales 102.3 85.2 regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
Gross profit 253.3 244.5 Distribution expenses 30.2 29.3 The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the Financial Statements varies considerably.
Administrative expenses 115.1 111.0 Impairment of intangible assets 12 9.3 Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the Financial Statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of operating profit 5 108.0 94.9 compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Net finance costs 7 0.9 0.8 Profit on disposal of associate and investment 2.0 Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material Share of loss of joint venture 13 0.2 effect on amounts or disclosures in the Financial Statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the profit before tax 106.9 96.1 Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: data protection law and, as an Taxation 8 20.3 18.0 intermediary, the major trading business within the Group which is subject to authorisation and regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquire profit for the year 86.6 78.1 of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not Other comprehensive income identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
total comprehensive income for the year 86.6 78.1 Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the Financial Statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For All profit and comprehensive income is attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as earnings per share with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional Basic earnings per ordinary share p 9 16.2 14.4 omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share p 9 16.1 14.4 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 13 February 2019 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 86 87
