68 Business reviews Our integrated value chain We are integrated across the 6 Raw materials packaging and paper value chain.
Our sustainably managed forests, backward pulp integration Mondi managed forests and high electricity self-sufficiency Annual allowable cut: 8 million m provide us with security of fibre supply, reduced exposure to raw material price volatility and the ability to manage risks and opportunities more holistically.
We believe that the integrated nature of our business places us in an ideal position to deliver 1 Internally procured wood on our customers packaging and paper needs.
4 million m We are working with partners across our value chain to design fibre and plastic-based packaging that it is fit for a circular economy.
This includes using the optimum amount of recycled content and creating products that can be recycled.
Externally procured wood 14 million m Paper for recycling 1.3 million tonnes mt Recycling Films and other raw Resins materials 1 Due to commercial, logistic and sustainability considerations, the actual wood procured from our managed forests was lower than the annual allowable cut 2 In addition to the 1.6mt of uncoated fine paper, the Group also produced 0.2mt of newsprint in 2018 3 Total consumption aggregate of internal and externally procured packaging paper in million tonnes mt 4 Pulp and packaging paper net exposure 5 The majority of the Groups market pulp is produced by the Uncoated Fine Paper business with the balance from Fibre Packaging 6 Based on 2018 statistics Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 69 6 6 Production processes Products Uncoated 4,5 Pulp mill Pulp Fine Paper 4.3 mt 0.2 mt Uncoated 2 fine paper 2 Paper mill 1.6 mt Uncoated fine paper Fibre 1.6 mt Packaging 4 Kraft paper Kraft paper 1.1 mt 0.3 mt 3 0.8 mt Virgin containerboard 4 Virgin containerboard 2.0 mt 3 0.3 mt 1.7 mt Recycled containerboard 4 Recycled containerboard 0.5 mt 3 - 0.1 mt 0.6 mt Corrugated Industrial Extrusion Fibre-based packaging bags coatings 2 2 packaging operations 1.6bn m 5.3bn bags 1.2bn m Consumer Packaging Consumer flexible Consumer packaging 2 packaging operations 7.3bn m Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 70 Business reviews Fibre Packaging We are a leading producer of fibre-based As the global leader in sack kraft paper Our Fibre Packaging business packaging with an integrated, well-invested, and industrial bags, we create strong, manufactures and sells a cost-advantaged asset base.
light-weight and sustainable products broad range of containerboard, optimised for high-speed filling and easy Our comprehensive product portfolio speciality and sack kraft papers handling used for cement and building is based on renewable raw materials as well as converted corrugated materials, agricultural, chemical and from sustainably managed forests, and food products.
Our range includes open packaging, industrial bags and includes products that are biodegradable, mouth bags, pasted valve bags,  products compostable or contain recycled content.
repellent bags, bags suitable for food for a variety of consumer and Our products meet customer requirements contact, e-commerce bags and heavyaround sustainability, printability, strength industrial applications.
We also offer strong innovation capabilities in areas such Our customers benefit from our end-use as brand differentiation, light-weighting, driven expertise in sustainable speciality Operating sites e-commerce and functionality.
Our broad portfolio includes natural brown and white paper Our virgin and recycled containerboard made from virgin and recycled fibre for 70 in 29 countries is used to make corrugated packaging, applications including retail shopping primarily designed to protect our Paper mills: 10 bags and more sustainable food customers products along the value Converting plants: packaging solutions like shallow trays for chain and display them in-store.
Innovation and design improvements Industrial Bags: 40 extend our corrugated packaging offering Our extrusion coatings portfolio offers Extrusion Coatings: 4 well beyond traditional boxes to fully sustainable alternatives for high-quality customised trays and wraps, multi-piece barrier solutions required for applications Employees solutions, appealing point-of-sale solutions such as food packaging, building insulation, and heavy-duty shipping containers.
foam papers, wrappers, case linings as well as automotive and protective clothing.
13,500 In 2018 we merged our Packaging Paper and Fibre Packaging business units to 1 Production capacity achieve improved strategic alignment and Pulp: 3,055 ktpa operational coordination across the fibreVirgin and recycled containerboard: 2,720 ktpa based packaging value chain.
Sack and speciality kraft paper: 1,216 ktpa 1 Includes full year capacity of Powerflute and modernisation of tt Spotlight on sustainable packaging by design Mondi Advantage ONE Corrugated packaging making one ply strong enough for car bumpers We use Mondi Advantage ONE, a We have developed 17 innovative new packaging systems that have high-performance, fully recyclable transformed the way a major European car manufacturer ships car-parts sack kraft paper to make our OK to China and the US.
The target was to meet the high standards of global Compost certified ONE and ONEPlus logistics while at the same time minimising the use of natural resources and industrial bags for the cement offering full product protection.
For example, our new and innovative car industry.
The strength of this paper bumper packaging reduces packaging material by 25% and also optimises means that these one-ply valve bags truck loads by 87%, reducing carbon footprint and saving transport costs.
are up to 20% lighter than the usual two-ply version without compromising on functionality.
Using less material makes this a resource efficient and cost effective packaging solution.
If enhanced moisture protection is required, ONEPlus is equipped with a biodegradable PE film as an inner ply.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 71 Financial review Segment revenue Underlying EBITDA million million Underlying EBITDA was up 30% on the prior year to 1,086 million, with higher average selling prices, improved 4,108m 1,086m product mix and volume growth more ROCE than offsetting higher costs and negative 4,108 1,086 currency effects.
A positive contribution 3,735 3,670 3,472 3,396 from acquisitions was partly offset by 833 734 721 disposal and one-off effects.
651 Good demand and limited supply supported a strong pricing environment incontainerboard markets.
Average benchmark European prices for unbleached kraftliner were up 16% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 year-on-year, while benchmark recycled containerboard prices were up around 12% on the prior year.
Prices for white top Production information kraftliner and semi-chemical fluting, which 1 typically show less volatility through the Restated business cycle, were up in the range of 8% 2018 2017 to 10% year-on-year.
A slowdown in the Containerboard 000 tonnes 2,530 2,297 rate of demand growth in the fourth quarter Kraft paper 000 tonnes 1,118 1,206 exacerbated by customer fide-stocking, and Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 1,986 2,010 pressure from imports into Europe led to Hardwood pulp 000 tonnes 714 547 price reductions in containerboard grades going into the new year.
Corrugated board and boxes million m 1,635 1,650 Industrial bags million units 5,255 4,952 Corrugated Packaging achieved good volume growth in the second half of the Extrusion coatings million m 1,230 1,281 year in its key markets, following stable Financial performance volumes in the first half on a strong 1 comparable prior year period.
The business Restated million % change 2018 2017 successfully implemented price increases required to compensate for significantly Segment revenue 10% 4,108 3,735 higher paper input costs and negative Underlying EBITDA 30% 1,086 833 currency effects: continued to benefit Underlying EBITDA margin 26.4% 22.3% from growing e-commerce activity: Underlying operating profit 41% 841 596 and remained focused on continuous Special items 73 3 improvements to reduce conversion costs and further enhance its product offering, Capital expenditure cash payments 469 398 quality and service to customers.
Operating segment net assets 3,804 3,246 We saw good demand across our range of ROCE 26.8% 20.6% kraft paper grades during the year, leading Sustainable development to a strong pricing environment.
Kraft paper 1 prices were up around 10% on average Restated 2 2018 2017 year-on-year.
The drive to replace plastic 3 carrier bags with paper-based alternatives TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.85 0.88 supported strong demand across our Gender diversity % women employed 20 21 range of speciality kraft papers, while good Training hours thousand hours 348 368 growth in selected emerging markets drove Energy consumption million GJ 58.70 59.99 demand for sack kraft paper.
Kraft paper Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 1.17 1.25 prices in early 2019 are up between 7% 2 and 8% on average compared to average FSCor PEFC-certified 2018 price levels following price increases wood procured % 63 66 through the second half of 2018 and Environmental management % operations certified to early 2019. certification ISO 14001 standards 55 49 CoC Certification % operations certified to FSC or PEFC CoC standards 59 67 1 Refer to notes 2, 32 and 33 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for basis of restatement 2 2018 excludes Powerflute and Egyptian industrial bag plants acquired during the year 3 2017 TRCR has been restated to include acquisitions completed in 2016 and 2017 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 20.7% 21.8% 19.8% 20.6% 26.8% 72 Business reviews Fibre Packaging Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2018 2019 priorities e Implemented and realised benefits from operational e Continue commercial and operational excellence Drive performance along and commercial excellence programmes efforts across our site network the value chain e Focused on leveraging our cost-advantaged e Further focus on enhancing efficiency and reliability production footprint through plant network optimisation of our pulp and paper assets initiatives e Leverage digitalisation opportunities when available e Continued to develop our asset management system and recovery boiler optimisation programme to further improve reliability and technical integrity e Commissioned the modernisation of tt e Ramp-up modernisation project at tt Invest in assets Czech Republic e Progress with the new paper machine investment with cost advantage e Received the final necessary permitting and proceeded at Ruomberok and complete the related pulp mill with new paper machine investment at Ruomberok upgrade Slovakia e Progress with investment at Bupak Czech e Approved and progressed with several investments in Republic and Ansbach Germany and speciality our converting plant network kraft paper investment conversion at tt e Improved safety performance during annual mill shuts e Continued focus on growing our safety maturity and Inspire our people and reducing our environmental footprint e Continued community and employee engagement grow responsibly e Realise environmental benefits from the recently e Reduced our carbon footprint completed tt mill modernisation e Focus on talent attraction and retention initiatives e Completed the acquisition of Powerflute Finland and e Leverage recently implemented customer platforms Partner with customers two industrial bag plants in Egypt and develop similar tools in our converting for innovation businesses e Improved customer interaction through developing and enhancing digital service platforms and hosting events e Continue to partner with our customers to develop such as the first European shopping bag summit sustainable fibre-based packaging solutions e Partnered with our customers to develop lighter, stronger and high performance solutions Industrial Bags sales volumes were up 3% Annual contracts for 2019 have mostly been A planned maintenance shut at our on a like-for-like basis, due to strong growth finalised, with price increases implemented Syktyvkar mill Russia and an extended in Iberia, emerging Europe, Middle East that largely reflect the full impact on the shut at Richards Bay South Africa were and West Africa, partly offset by weaker US cost base of the recent sack kraft paper completed during the first half of the year.
Price increases were achieved in price increases.
Planned maintenance shuts at wiecie the early part of the year to compensate for Poland and the majority of our kraft paper With the exception of paper for recycling, higher paper input costs.
However, margins mills, including an extended shut at tt costs were above the prior year period, came under pressure during the second half as we commissioned the extensive plant mitigated by our ongoing cost reduction as higher paper prices, following mid-year modernisation project, were completed in programme.
We saw higher wood, increases, could not be fully passed on to the second half.
Maintenance shuts are chemical and energy costs and inflationary customers due to contractual agreements.
planned at our Syktyvkar, Powerflute and increases on cash fixed costs.
This was Strong cost management and the benefit of Richards Bay mills for the first half of 2019, partly offset by higher average green energy rationalisation activities resulted in significant while the majority of the remaining shuts are prices in Poland.
fixed cost savings during the period.
scheduled for the second half of the year.
High-tech corrugated production at Mondi wiecie Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 73 Drive performance Invest in assets Inspire our people along the value chain with cost advantage and grow responsibly We continue to minimise the top safety We continued to benefit from our ongoing In the fourth quarter of 2018, we risks in our operations to improve our operational excellence initiatives, driving successfully commissioned the 335 million year-on-year performance.
While we saw productivity and efficiency, minimising modernisation of the tt mill to replace the safety improvements at our mills during waste, delivering procurement savings and recovery boiler, rebuild the fibre lines and planned annual maintenance and projectenhancing our quality systems.
During the debottleneck the existing packaging paper related shuts, we unfortunately noted an year we achieved annual production machines.
The project is expected to result increase in incidents relating to hazardous records at 10 of our paper and pulp drying in additional annual production of 90,000 substances as well as rotating and moving machines.
We also focused on our supply tonnes of softwood market pulp and equipment, which will be focus areas in chain, including a programme to improve 55,000 tonnes of packaging paper.
We also regret two life-altering injuries our mills ocean transport system, which will We obtained the final necessary permitting in 2018 a severe injury to the lower left reduce costs and improve effectiveness, to proceed with the 340 million investment arm of an employee at our tt mill and service quality and reliability.
in a new 300,000 tonne per annum kraft a finger amputation of an employee at During the year, our converting operations top white machine at Ruomberok, with wiecie.
Our 2019 efforts will concentrate continued with initiatives to pass through start-up expected towards the end of 2020. on supporting underperforming operations raw material price increases, especially The related pulp mill upgrade at the same and keeping up the positive momentum at paper input costs.
Our corrugated site is progressing according to plan with those operations where we are achieving packaging business is also developing start-up expected in late 2019. our safety milestones.
We are pleased with digital dynamic pricing tools to support our the improvements in our safety performance Responding to continued good demand performance in this area.
across our converting operations and have across our range of speciality kraft papers identified opportunities to use digital tools to To further improve the reliability and in Europe, supported by the drive to assist us in managing machine shutdowns technical integrity of our pulp and paper replace plastic carrier bags with paperand lockdowns more safely, which we will operations and reduce maintenance based alternatives, we have approved a focus on in the coming year.
costs we continue to develop our asset 67 million capital investment project to management processes, including the convert a containerboard machine at tt We aim to be an employer of choice implementation of specific training to to be fully dedicated to the production of focusingon attracting and retaining enhance the skills and qualifications of our speciality kraft paper with a mix of recycled employees.
We also have several mills people across our mill network.
We also and virgin fibre content for shopping wherea number of key employees will be established a programme to optimise the bag applications.
This will also allow us retiring in the coming years and we are therefore defining specific action plans performance of our recovery boilers, which to optimise productivity and efficiency to attract talent, create a stronger culture we expect will deliver energy savings, at wiecie, where this grade is currently of employee recognition and ensure we enable best-practice sharing and continue produced.
The project will result in an  workforce.
to improve the reliability of our operations.
additional 75,000 tonnes per annum of speciality kraft paper capacity, while The recently completed tt mill We continue to optimise our production reducing our containerboard capacity by modernisation project will make the mill footprint and leverage our cost-advantaged around 30,000 tonnes per annum.
Start-up energy self-sufficient and is expected to asset base.
In 2018, we announced is expected by the end of 2020. further reduce our GHG emissions.
We also the closure of two industrial bag plants improved the condensate treatment at our in Europe and another in Kentucky We continue to invest in our converting Stambolijski mill Bulgaria by installing a new US.
We are able to continue to serve plant network.
We are expanding our condenser for foul condensate stripping customers from our existing plant network, industrial bag plant in Abidjan Cte dIvoire including incineration of malodorous gases in benefiting from economies of scale.
with a second line to service our customers the recovery boiler.
In 2019, we plan to invest We stopped production of in-line silicone growing needs.
We have approved in our Frantschach mill Austria to reduce coated products at tt due to technical investment plans at our corrugated plants malodourous gas emissions.
in Bupak to broaden its capabilities, In June, we completed the sale of a flat reduce conversion costs and focus on Our annual Making a Difference Day sack kraft paper mill in Pine Bluff, Arkansas growing e-commerce applications: and provided an opportunity to engage with local US, with 130,000 tonnes of annual in Ansbach to grow with our customers, communities and educate our employees production capacity.
reduce conversion costs and secure the through training programmes focusing on plants long-term competitiveness as a the prevention of leakages and spills and the leading heavy-duty corrugated packaging transport of hazardous material.
Our team continually seeks year we also hosted a number of events capital investment opportunities across including visits by local students, family our plant network to leverage our exposure days and community open days.
We see benefits from these activities including to faster growing regions while remaining improved community-site cooperation, disciplined in our focus on investing in costlocal environmental and safety and health advantaged assets.
awareness, understanding of our industry, and support for the development of a pool of local technical skills.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
