4 Our businesses Sustainable packaging and paper by design Segment revenue Fibre Packaging Our virgin and recycled containerboard is used to make corrugated 4,108m Business packaging designed to protect our customers products and display review Page 70-75 them in-store and online.
We produce a full range of corrugated packaging from traditional boxes to fully customised multi-piece solutions, Underlying EBITDA appealing point-of-sale displays and heavy-duty shipping containers.
As the global leader in sack kraft paper and industrial bags, we create strong, light-weight and sustainable products for cement and building materials, agricultural, chemical and food products.
1,086m Our speciality kraft paper is used to make a variety of packaging solutions from industrial applications to retail shopping bags and more sustainable food packaging.
Extrusion coatings provide high-quality barriers for a range of products from food packaging to building insulation.
Segment revenue Consumer Packaging Our consumer goods packaging products extend shelf-life 1,611m Business and improve end-user experience.
We offer a range of flexible review Page 76-79 packaging such as stand-up pouches and re-closable bags.
Underlying EBITDA Personal care components form part of diaper, femcare and adult incontinence products.
They include soft nonwovens, stretchy elastic films and laminates, mechanical fastening components and wrapping films.
Our release liners are used for tapes, fibre composites and graphic 194m arts: and our technical films provide solutions from high-barrier films to surface protection films.
Segment revenue Uncoated Fine Paper We transform responsibly sourced raw materials into innovative 1,877m Business review paper products that meet customer needs in a cost-effective and Page 80-83 sustainable way.
Our extensive range of office papers is designed to achieve optimal print results on laser, inkjet and copy machines.
Underlying EBITDA High-performance professional printing papers are dedicated for offset presses and the latest digital print technologies.
With our wide range of high-quality papers we aim to provide customers a one-stop-shop solution for their needs.
516m Glass7Box Pick up tray Side support Our award winning products Designed for premium Fully recyclable tray and handle Insert which acts as corner Mondi won eight 2019 WorldStar awards, more glass brand Riedel, featuring a that can carry a 71% higher support when transporting than any other packaging company worldwide.
BarrierPack Recyclable has also been shortlisted as one of three finalists for their special Sustainability Award winner to be announced in May 2019.
The WorldStar awards are run by the World Packaging Organisation WPO and are considered to be the pre-eminent international award in packaging.
2019 winners were WORLDSTAR announced in December 2018.
WINNER 2019 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5 Leading market positions virgin containerboard #1 producer in Europe containerboard producer #1 in emerging Europe corrugated packaging #3 producer in emerging Europe kraft paper #1 producer globally industrial bags #1 producer globally Leading market positions consumer flexible #3 packaging producer in Europe commercial release liner #1 producer in Europe Leading market positions uncoated fine paper #1 supplier in Europe uncoated fine #1 paper producer in South Africa Packaging Recyclable waste Pal-bridge Yoghurt tray BarrierPack closing optimisation separation system pallet support system with tear tape Recyclable Semi-automatic solution Corrugated bins that can Easy-to-fold system that fills the Corrugated tray with a unique Highly functional, fully recyclable for closing the bottom of boxes, be disposed of along with gaps in the top layer of pallets integrated tear tape that makes flexible plastic laminate for saving time and materials.
it easy to divide if required.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
