Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Related party transactions continued Assets acquired and liabilities transactions with key management personnel m In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors and Executive Officers.
Directors and Executive Officers also participate in the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Intangible assets 8.7 Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Matthew Price prior to resigning as a director, Robin Freestone and Sally James received dividends from the Trade and other receivables 5.7 Group totalling 23,484 2017: 71,909.
Cash 6.8 Trade and other payables 5.6 There were no amounts outstanding to the Company or any future commitments of the Company as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Deferred tax liability 1.1 total identifiable net assets acquired 14.6 Key management personnel compensation Key management, defined as the executive management team, received the following compensation during the year: Measurement of fair values 31 december 31 December The valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of material assets acquired were as follows.
2018 2017 m m Assets acquired Valuation technique Short-term employee benefits 2.8 2.8 Share-based payments 0.2 1.1 Intangible assets Relief-from-royalty method and multi-period excess earnings method: The relief-from-royalty method considers the Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.5 Domain names discounted estimated royalty payments that are expected to be avoided as a result of the domain names being owned.
The multi-period excess earnings method considers the present value of net cash flows expected to be 3.3 4.4 generated by the domain names, by excluding any cash flows related to contributory assets.
This has been determined by an independent valuation to identify the fair value of the domain names marketing related intangible In addition to the above, the executive management team received a bonus of 2.3m 2017: 2.1m in relation to the reporting period.
Intangible assets A rebuild cost valuation method has been used to determine the value of the technology asset.
Acquisition of a subsidiary technology in conjunction with Senior Technology professionals and uses a cost assumption for developers inclusive of a profit On 9 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Decision Technologies Limited for consideration of 45.3m.
margin as would be the case in an external build contracted to develop an equivalent platform.
A degree of obsolescence has also been assumed within the costs to reflect the advancements in technology since it has been built.
Decision Technologies Limited is a leading operator in the home communications sector, operating in both the Business to Business B2B and Business to Consumer B2C segments.
The acquisition is in line with the Groups strategic intent to enter the B2B area in Goodwill order to take price comparison to new audiences and also equips Decision Technologies Limited with the access to enable B2B Goodwill arising from the acquisition has been recognised as follows.
development within other verticals such as other Home Services, Insurance and Money.
m For the 5 months ended 31 December 2018, Decision Technologies Limited contributed revenue of 10.7m and net profit of 1.4m to the Groups results.
Consideration transferred 45.3 Fair value of identifiable net assets 14.6 consideration transferred Goodwill 30.7 The following table summarises the acquisition date fair value of each major class of consideration transferred.
m The goodwill is attributable mainly to the experience and processes in place within Decision Technologies Limited for servicing B2B customers, which can be leveraged into new sectors, alongside the synergies expected to be achieved from integrating the company Cash 40.6 into the Groups existing platforms to build a competitive B2B offering in new sectors.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be Deferred consideration 4.7 deductible for tax purposes.
total consideration transferred 45.3 The acquisition accounting is provisional and will be finalised within the measurement period permitted by accounting standards.
Disposal of associate and investment The Group has issued 4.7m of loan notes paying a 1.5% coupon as additional deferred consideration.
This has been discounted at a On 7 May 2014, Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited, sold its investment in HD Decisions Limited to a third party.
The rate of 1.5% recognised as a liability at the date of acquisition with a fair value of 4.7m.
At 31 December 2018 the outstanding balance of investment was sold for a maximum consideration of up to 7.1m, including a deferred element payable of up to 1.9m.
contingent profit on disposal of 0.8m was received in 2016 and a final amount of 0.9m in June 2017.
No further amounts are due.
Acquisition related costs In January 2017, the investment in Social Significance Limited was disposed of for a total consideration of 1.5m, resulting in a profit on The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of 1.7m on legal fees and due diligence costs.
These costs have been included in disposal of 1.1m.
Post balance sheet events Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed There are no significant post balance sheet events.
The following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 112 113
