Financial Statements Glossary of terms 1 Cash flow from operations Cash generated from operations before cash flows from restructuring costs and other items.
1 Constant-currency Constant-currency revenue and Group headline operating profit are derived by translating the prior year results at current year average exchange rates.
Corporate costs Corporate costs consist of the costs of the central head office.
Energy use Energy from all sources.
Free cash flow before acquisitions Cash generated from operations less net capital expenditure, net interest paid and tax paid.
1 and dividends Group earnings before interest, EBITA is defined as Group operating profit before specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets.
1 Segment Divisional and global business unit EBITA is stated before unallocated corporate costs.
tax and amortisation EBITA Group earnings before interest, tax, EBITDA is defined as operating profit before specific adjusting items, amortisation of intangible assets and depreciation.
depreciation and amortisation 1 EBITDA 1 Group headline operating profit Operating profit adjusted to exclude specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets.
1 Headline earnings per share EPS Headline earnings per share is defined as operating profit adjusted to exclude specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets, plus share of profit of associate less net financing costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period.
Lost-time accident LTA Accident which results in one or more days Lost-time.
Lost-time per LTA Total time lost from health and safety in the year divided by the number of Lost-time accidents reported in the year.
1 Net debt Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
1 Return on invested capital ROIC Group headline operating profit operating profit excluding specific adjusting items and amortisation of intangible assets divided by the 12-month average adjusted net assets excludes long-term employee benefits, deferred tax assets and liabilities, current tax payable, provisions, cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Return on operating capital employed Group headline operating profit operating profit excluding specific adjusting items and amortisation of 1 intangible assets divided by the sum of working capital as defined below and the net book value, plant ROCE and equipment and land and buildings.
Goodwill and other intangible assets are excluded.
Revenue growth Revenue growth is defined as current year revenue translated using current year average exchange rates divided by prior year revenue translated using prior year average exchange rates.
Specific adjusting items See note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further details Waste Hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
Water use intensity Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Working capital Working capital as used in the calculation of ROCE is the sum of inventories, trade and other receivables, net 1 derivative financial liabilities, net assets classified as held-for-sale, trade and other payables, plus the net of as used in the ROCE calculation deferred consideration, third-party dividends payable and other sundry items.
Items marked with an asterisk are non-GAAP measures, see definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures on pages 31 to 33.
156 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018
