STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 207 Key Contacts and Advisers Company Secretary Corporate solicitors Jennifer Myram Ashurst LLP companysecretarial@ Broadwalk House nationalexpressgroup.
com 5 Appold Street London Registered Office EC2A 2AG National Express Group PLC National Express House Financial advisers Birmingham Coach Station Bank of America Merrill Lynch Mill Lane 2 King Edward Street Birmingham London B5 6DD EC1A 1HQ Tel: 44 0 8450 130 130 Joint corporate brokers www.
com Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2 King Edward Street Registered in England and Wales London No.
2590560 EC1A 1HQ Registrar HSBC Bank plc Equiniti Limited 8 Canada Square Aspect House London Spencer Road E14 5HA Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0371 384 2152 International: 44 0 121 415 7047 Textel: 0371 384 2255 www.
co. uk Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Tel: 44 0 20 7583 1198 www.
com Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 208 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Cautionary statement This Annual Report and the National Express website may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to National Express Group PLC Company or Group and the Groups financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on Titan Silk & UPM respect to these items and the economies and markets in which FineOffset which are both certified by the FSC.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as Both printer and paper mill are certified to ISO 14001, anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, the standard for environmental management.
expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations or If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not it, please dispose ofit in your recycled paper waste.
By their very nature, forwardThank you.
looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that Consultancy, design and production are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
co. uk There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors Print managed by urbanprintsupport.
co. uk include, but are not limited to, changes in the political conditions, economies and markets in which the Group operates including the outcome of the negotiations to leave the EU : changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and Design and production interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in www.
co. uk interest and exchange rates.
Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or on the Companys website, or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Company or any other member of the Group, or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or on the Companys website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Consistent delivery.
