STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial Statements 119 119 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 1 Corporate information The Consolidated Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 28 February 2019.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report that accompanies these Financial Statements.
2 Accounting policies Accounting convention and basis of preparation These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis see Group Finance Directors Review on page 17 under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income.
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Changes in accounting policies and the adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for changes arising from new standards and amendments to existing standards that have been adopted in the current year.
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 came into effect on 1 January 2018 and have been applied by the Group for the first time.
The nature and effect of the changes from adopting these new accounting standards are described below.
Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in 2018, but do not have an impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standards, interpretations or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The standard also introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Classification and measurement changes The Group continued measuring at fair value all financial assets previously held at fair value under IAS 39.
In addition, equity investments in non-listed companies, which have historically been recognised at cost less impairment, are now classified and measured as equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The Group elected to classify these investments under this category as it intends to hold these investments for the foreseeable future.
On transition, the carrying value of the investments was reduced by 0.7m as a result of the change.
There are no changes in classification and measurement for the Groups financial liabilities.
Impairment Under IFRS 9, the Groups accounting for impairment losses for financial assets has changed by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking expected credit loss approach.
The Group has applied the simplified approach to measuring impairment losses and records lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
At 1 January 2018 this resulted in an additional allowance for impairment of 16.7m and deferred tax asset of 3.9m.
The change primarily relates to older dated contract receivables in ALSA and North America where perceived risk of default is considered greater due to ageing.
However, the increase purely reflects the requirement under IFRS 9 to make a forward looking assessment of risk of future default on existing receivables and does not reflect an actual increase in incurred credit losses.
Hedge accounting Hedge accounting for the year has been prepared in accordance with IFRS 9.
There has been no financial impact to the opening position or any material impact to the movements in the year as a result of the new standard and our hedging relationships remain highly effective.
For additional information about the Groups accounting policies relating to financial instruments, see page 126.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 120 120 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2 Accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 establishes the principles for reporting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customers.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to the customer.
The Group has applied the new rules prospectively from 1 January 2018, having performed a detailed assessment of the effects of applying the new standard.
As part of the assessment, management identified a transitional reduction to receivables of 23.6m and deferred tax assets of 5.9m.
The majority of this relates to variable consideration for certain transport contracts in ALSA.
Under IAS 18, this revenue had been recognised on the basis that future receipt was considered probable.
Under IFRS 15, the new variable consideration requirement of highly probable led to a derecognition of the revenue and related receivable as at the date of transition.
The remainder of the adjustment relates to long-term contract revenue for software goods and services in North America, where application of the standard has resulted in a greater deferral of revenue to match delivery of the performance obligation.
With the exception of the above, revenue has not been impacted by the new standard.
Just over half of the Groups revenue is derived from documented contracts that cover periods of at least one year, and the significant remainder relate to ticket and other sales to travelling customers, and shorter-term contracts such as private hire.
For documented contracts, a detailed assessment was performed and management concluded that revenues are being appropriately recognised across the periods of the contract, as the services are transferred to the customer.
Ticket sale revenue and private hire are also compliant with the new standard, with ticket sales recognised when the passenger makes the journey, or spread according to the term of the ticket, and private hire recognised in the period in which the service is provided to the customer.
For additional information about the Groups accounting policies relating to revenue recognition, see page 122.
With regard to the disclosure requirements of IFRS 15, a new numerical disaggregation of revenue has been presented in note 4.
Reconciliation of the opening Balance Sheet For both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, the Group has applied the exemptions to not restate prior year financial information.
The impacts of the new standards have been recognised as transitional adjustments to the opening Balance Sheet and are summarised as follows: 31 December IFRS 9 IFRS 15 1 January 2017 m m 2018 Non-current financial assets 8.1 0.7 7.4 Trade and other receivables 356.3 16.7 23.6 316.0 Net deferred tax liability 18.6 3.9 5.9 8.8 Total assets 3,451.5 13.5 17.7 3,420.3 Net assets 1,166.4 13.5 17.7 1,135.2 Retained earnings 410.9 13.5 14.3 383.1 Non-controlling interests in equity 21.4 3.4 18.0 Total equity 1,166.4 13.5 17.7 1,135.2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
No areas of critical accounting judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty have been identified in relation to Brexit.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 121 121 2 Accounting policies continued i Critical accounting judgements Pensions defined benefit assets Judgement is required regarding the application of IFRIC 14 and the extent to which the Group can recognise defined benefit assets.
Changes in this judgement could significantly impact the value of defined benefit pension balances recognised.
National Express Group PLC operates a defined benefit scheme, which at year end was in a net surplus position as disclosed in note 34.
Based on the terms and conditions of the scheme, and from consultation with independent advisers, the Group determined that an ultimate future economic benefit exists in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The surplus has therefore been recognised in full.
ii Key sources of estimation uncertainty Insurance and other claims The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years.
The estimation of the claims provision is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these judgemental matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
In certain rare cases, additional disclosure regarding these claims may unfairly prejudice the Groups position and consequently this disclosure is not provided.
Given the differing types of claims, their size, the range of possible outcomes and the time involved in settling these claims, there is a reasonably possible chance that a material adjustment would be required to the carrying value of the claims provision in the next financial year.
These different factors also make it impracticable to provide sensitivity analysis on one single measure and its potential impact on the overall claims provision.
Basis of consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
The Consolidated Income Statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased from the date control is assumed and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the date of disposal.
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Summary of significant accounting policies Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control.
Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability to use its power over the entity to affect its returns.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are also considered when assessing control.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 122 122 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group Balance Sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the Income Statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Financial statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups Financial Statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest financial statements under the equity method of accounting.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the Income Statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the Income Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income Statement.
Presentation of income statement and separately disclosed items The Group Income Statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the Financial Statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results excluding intangible amortisation for acquired businesses, result for the year from discontinued operations and in the prior year, US tax reform and UK restructuring.
The Board believes that this gives a more comparable year-on-year indication of the operating performance of the Group and allows the users of the Financial Statements to understand managements key performance measures.
Further details relating to separately disclosed items are provided in note 4.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in the contract with a customer and is recognised when the performance obligations of the contract have been fulfilled.
Contract revenues For the purposes of disclosures, the Group has applied the term contract revenues to describe documented contracts that typically cover periods of at least one year, excluding concessions and subsidies.
The contracts primarily relate to home to school and transit contracts in North America, urban bus contracts in Spain and coach contracts in the UK.
Revenues relating to the provision of transport services are recognised as the services are provided and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Revenue relating to any additional performance measures in the contract are recognised when the performance has been met and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer.
The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until the associated uncertainty is resolved and when it becomes highly probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 123 123 2 Accounting policies continued Passenger revenues Passenger revenues primarily relate to ticket sales in the UK, German Rail, intercity coach services in Spain and urban bus services in Morocco.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the date of customer travel.
Revenue from tickets that cover more than one day, for example monthly travel cards and season tickets, are initially deferred as a liability and released to the Income Statement over the period of the ticket.
Deferred income liability is reduced when an eligible cancellation arises.
Also, where applicable, deferred income is reduced for ticket breakage, being the portion of future travel that is not expected to be exercised.
Booking fees are non-refundable and recognised at the point of sale, reflecting fulfilment of the performance.
Other ancillary revenues relating to ticket sales are recognised at point of sale or, if material and related to a future performance period, recognised by reference to that period.
Loyalty points issued to customers are recorded and valued by management.
Where material, the cumulative redeemable value of the points is deducted from the related revenue and deferred as a liability until the points are redeemed.
Passenger revenue in German Rail is allocated between the various transport providers in each region by the tariff authority responsible for that region, and is recognised based on passenger counts, tariff authority estimates and historical trends.
Grants and subsidies Grants and subsidies relating to the provision of transport services are recognised as the services are provided and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
German Rail contracts are service concession arrangements and accounted for under IFRIC 12.
In accordance with that standard, income received from the public transport authority PTA is recognised in line with the requirements of IFRS 15.
Subsidy income from the PTA is recognised over the life of the franchise and by using the input method to measure progress against the performance obligation.
The amount recognised in each period is based on a percentage of completion, applying net costs incurred as a proportion of total expected net costs, which is what the subsidy is intended to compensate.
In accordance with IFRS 15, costs payable to the PTA are netted against subsidy income.
Private hire Private hire operations are contracts provided in the UK, ALSA and North America divisions and are typically of a short duration.
Revenue is recognised over the period in which the private hire is provided to the customer.
Other revenues Other revenues primarily comprise non-passenger services in Spain, transit software income in North America and advertising revenues.
Revenues for non-passenger services are recognised when the performance of the service has been fulfilled and in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Transit software income is recognised when the benefit of the software or service has been passed to the customer.
Advertising revenue is recognised over the period of the advertising contract.
Taxes Current tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the Income Statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 124 124 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax base and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
For this purpose, forecasts of future taxable profits are considered by assessing the Groups forecast revenue and profit models, taking into account future growth predictions and operating cost assumptions.
Accordingly, changes in assumptions to the Groups forecasts may have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits and therefore the period over which any deferred tax assets might be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Business combinations On the acquisition of a business, identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are measured at their fair value.
Contingent liabilities assumed are measured at fair value unless this cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are not recognised but are disclosed in the same manner as other contingent liabilities.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently until it is settled.
The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition, management is committed to the sale and when the sale is expected to complete within one year from the date of classification.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively for resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and presented as a single amount after tax.
Comparatives are also re-presented to reclassify the operation as discontinued.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint arrangement at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is not amortised.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
A cash-generating unit is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows, and which is reviewed by management for monitoring and managing the Groups business operations.
On disposal of a cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 125 125 2 Accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Customer contracts Customer contracts acquired as part of a business combination are initially recorded at the fair value attributed to those contracts on acquisition.
Contract mobilisation costs Costs associated with securing significant new franchises or contracts are expensed as incurred up to the point when a bid is awarded.
From this point in time, appropriate costs are recognised as an asset and amortised to the Income Statement over the life of the contract.
Costs associated with the commencement of all other new contracts are expensed as incurred.
Software Acquired and internally developed software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software or fair value if acquired as part of a business combination.
Computer software that is integral to a tangible fixed asset is recognised within property, plant and equipment.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Contract mobilisation costs over the life of the franchise 15 years Software over the estimated useful life 3 to 7 years The useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follow: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 20 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, with any gain or loss arising included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the Income Statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Impairment Intangible assets with definite useful lives, and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
Assets that do not generate independent cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
The impairment testing of individual assets or cash-generating units requires an assessment of the recoverable amount of the asset or cash-generating unit.
If the carrying value of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount, the asset or cash-generating unit is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that is based on the country-specific weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The outcome of such an assessment is subjective, and the result sensitive to the assumed future cash flows to be generated by the cash-generating units or assets, the growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the three-year period and discount rates applied in calculating the value in use.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be subsequently reversed.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 126 126 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Financial assets From 1 January 2018, financial assets are classified at initial recognition as i subsequently measured at amortised cost, ii fair value through other comprehensive income OCI or iii fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading, financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets mandatorily required to be measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
Transaction costs arising on initial recognition are expensed in the Income Statement.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income The Group has elected to recognise its non-listed equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are never recycled to the Income Statement.
Dividends are recognised as other income in the Income Statement when the right of payment has been established.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income are not subject to impairment assessment.
Financial assets at amortised cost Financial assets at amortised costs are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest EIR method and are subject to impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost include trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as i financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, ii loans and borrowings, iii payables or iv derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortisation is included as finance costs in the Income Statement.
This category applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 127 127 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as fuel derivatives, interest rate derivatives, foreign exchange forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with fuel price, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet.
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of the derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
At inception of designated hedging relationships, the Group documents the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The Group also documents the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, including whether the changes in cash flows of the hedged item and hedging instrument are expected to offset each other.
The Groups fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Groups interest rate derivatives are designated as fair value hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the Income Statement for the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk-free interest rate.
Foreign exchange forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations, and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
The Group also uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transactional exposures.
These contracts are not hedge accounted and all gains and losses are taken directly to the Income Statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.
Similarly, any material ineffective portion of the Groups cash flow and net investment hedges is recognised in the Income Statement.
Costs of hedging for cash flow and net investment hedges are initially recognised in equity and disclosed separately and amortised to the Income Statement over the term of the instrument.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in-first out basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15, less provision for impairment.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for trade receivables.
The Group uses provision matrices based on historical ageing of receivables and credit loss experience, adjusted as necessary for any forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and economic environment.
Trade receivables are derecognised where the Group enters into factoring arrangements without recourse and the risks and rewards have been fully transferred.
The group classifies the cash flows from factoring arrangements within cash from operating activities in the Statement of Cash Flows.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the Statement of Cash Flows comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception, and bank overdrafts.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts where there is a legal right of set-off, otherwise are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 128 128 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 2 Accounting policies continued Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements where the expected future outflow is not probable.
Insurance The Groups policy is to not insure low value, high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection against these types of losses, the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
Liabilities in respect of claims risk include projected settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data and are discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
To the extent insurance liabilities are insured and awaiting settlement, a separate asset is recognised in other receivables.
Leases Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the Income Statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Retirement benefits Defined contribution schemes Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they fall due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Defined benefit schemes Plan assets, including qualifying insurance policies, are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is the amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised when the employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some point during the life of the plan or on its wind-up.
Current service costs are recognised within operating costs in the Income Statement.
Past service costs and gains, which are the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior periods resulting from plan amendments, are recognised immediately the plan amendment occurs.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised within finance costs.
Re-measurements comprise actuarial gains and losses and the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Re-measurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially and are updated for material transactions and other material changes in circumstances up to the end of the reporting period.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 129 129 2 Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the Group over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as own shares until they are cancelled or re-issued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following standards that have been issued but are not yet effective: Title of standard IFRS 16 Leases Nature of change IFRS 16 will result in an increase in the number of leases being recognised on the balance sheet as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability to pay rentals will be recognised.
The income statement will also be affected, with the operating lease expense being replaced by a combination of depreciation on the right of use asset and interest on the financial liability.
Short-term and low value leases can be made exempt.
Under this option the leases continue to be charged to the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Impact During 2018, the Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of IFRS 16.
This assessment focused on all of the Groups existing lease portfolio, as well as considering other contractual arrangements to determine if they constituted a lease under the definitions of the new standard.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 690m, as per note 35.
However, of these commitments, 436m relates to German Rail rolling stock assets that do not meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16.
This reflects the fact that the lessor, not the Group, directs how and for what purpose the assets are used and, in the case of one contract, that the lessor also has the substantive right to substitute the assets.
This is consistent with our application of IFRIC 12, where we have service concession arrangements and do not have control of the assets.
In addition, approximately 15m of commitments relate to low value leases, which the Group will elect to exempt and continue to expense on a straight-line basis in the Income Statement.
For the remaining lease commitments, and after taking into account discounting to present value, on 1 January 2019 the Group expects to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the range of 190.0m to 210.0m.
Our review of other contractual arrangements across the Group is substantively complete, and no arrangements have been identified that meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16.
This review has included an assessment of the UK coach operations where vehicles are provided by third party operators.
Management concluded that for the majority of these arrangements the third party operators have a substantive right to substitute vehicles over the term of the agreement and therefore a lease arrangement does not exist.
The remaining UK coach operator contracts were determined to be leases but are short-term in nature and therefore exempted.
By way of indication, management has estimated that had IFRS 16 be adopted for 2018 the effect on profit before tax would be negligible.
Under the new standard, statutory operating cash flow would have been approximately 53m higher and financing cash flows lower by the same amount, reflecting the re-classification of principal lease repayments into cash flows from financing activities.
Date of adoption IFRS 16 will be adopted on 1 January 2019, using the modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
The following amended standards and interpretations are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRIC 23 uncertainty over tax treatments.
Prepayment features with negative compensation amendments to IFRS 9.
Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures amendments to IAS 28.
Plan amendment, curtailment or settlement amendments to IAS 19.
Annual improvements to IFRS standards 20152017 cycle various standards.
Amendments to references to conceptual framework in IFRS standards.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 130 130 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 continued 3 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US Dollar 1.28 1.34 1.35 1.29 Canadian Dollar 1.74 1.73 1.70 1.67 Euro 1.11 1.13 1.13 1.14 If the results for the year to 31 December 2017 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2018, North America would have achieved normalised operating profit of 91.1m on revenue of 982.1m, compared with normalised operating profit of 94.3m on revenue of 1,017.2m as reported, and ALSA would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 95.8m on revenue of 670.1m, compared with normalised operating profit of 94.9m on revenue of 663.5m as reported.
4 Segmental analysis The Groups reportable segments have been determined based on reports issued to and reviewed by the Group Executive Committee, and are organised in accordance with the geographical regions in which they operate and nature of services that they provide.
Management considers the Group Executive Committee to be the chief decision-making body for deciding how to allocate resources and for assessing operating performance.
Segmental performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss and is measured consistently with operating profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Group financing activities and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to reportable segments.
The principal services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are as follows: UK Bus and coach operations German Rail Rail operations ALSA predominantly Spain and Morocco Bus and coach operations North America USA and Canada School bus and transit bus operations Further details on the activities of each segment are described in the Strategic Report.
Central functions is not a reportable segment but has been included in the segmental analysis for transparency and to enable a reconciliation to the consolidated Group.
Revenue Revenue is disaggregated by reportable segment, class and type of service as follows: 2018 Contract Passenger Grants and Other revenues revenues subsidies Private hire revenues Total Analysis by class and reportable segment m m m m m m UK 29.2 456.8 56.0 14.6 20.4 577.0 German Rail 47.2 16.3 4.3 67.8 ALSA 189.3 430.3 10.2 62.8 52.5 745.1 North America 967.9 78.2 14.7 1,060.8 Central functions Total revenue from continuing operations 1,186.4 934.3 82.5 155.6 91.9 2,450.7 Analysis by major service type: Passenger transport 1,186.4 934.3 82.5 155.6 13.7 2,372.5 Other products and services 78.2 78.2 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,186.4 934.3 82.5 155.6 91.9 2,450.7 There have been no material amounts of revenue recognised in the year that relate to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous years.
Revenue received where the performance obligation will be fulfilled in future is classified as deferred income and disclosed in note 24.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 131 131 4 Segmental analysis continued 2017 Contract Passenger Grants and Other revenues revenues subsidies Private hire revenues Total Analysis by class and reportable segment: m m m m m m UK 26.7 443.4 58.6 9.2 23.6 561.5 German Rail 42.3 34.9 1.8 79.0 ALSA 183.9 405.2 17.9 33.5 23.0 663.5 North America 924.2 78.3 14.7 1,017.2 Central functions Total revenue from continuing operations 1,134.8 890.9 111.4 121.0 63.1 2,321.2 Analysis by major service type: Passenger transport 1,134.8 890.9 111.4 121.0 17.5 2,275.6 Other products and services 45.6 45.6 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,134.8 890.9 111.4 121.0 63.1 2,321.2 There are no material inter-segment sales between reportable segments.
Operating profit Operating profit is analysed by reportable segment as follows: Intangible Intangible Normalised amortisation Normalised amortisation operating for acquired Segment operating for acquired UK Segment profit businesses result profit businesses restructuring result 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m UK 79.9 1.0 78.9 70.9 0.7 5.6 64.6 German Rail 3.0 0.9 2.1 5.2 1.0 4.2 ALSA 105.3 11.1 94.2 94.9 10.0 84.9 North America 96.9 29.3 67.6 94.3 26.3 68.0 Central functions 27.4 27.4 23.8 23.8 Operating profit from continuing operations 257.7 42.3 215.4 241.5 38.0 5.6 197.9 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.9 0.9 3.5 3.5 Net finance costs 38.6 38.6 38.0 38.0 Profit before tax 220.0 42.3 177.7 200.0 38.0 5.6 156.4 Tax charge 39.0 28.0 Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 138.7 128.4 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 5.9 Profit for the year 138.7 134.3 In February 2017 the Group disposed of its final UK rail franchise, c2c, as part of a broader UK strategic review in which the Group discontinued all activity in UK Rail.
Consequent on this exit and given the simplified UK footprint, the Group also reorganised its UK management structure to reduce costs and facilitate better, clearer decision-making.
The cost relating to this restructuring was 5.6m.
Further details are provided in note 11.
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue.
Information reported to the Group Executive Committee does not regularly include an analysis of assets and liabilities by segment.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 133 133 5 Operating costs 2018 2017 m m Cost of inventories recognised in expense 86.1 81.2 Staff costs 1,260.9 1,161.6 Depreciation Owned assets 112.5 107.8 Leased assets 21.3 27.8 Intangible asset amortisation 47.0 41.6 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.4 5.4 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 8.3 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 0.5 1.0 Operating lease charges Rolling stock 13.2 13.2 Public service vehicles 27.8 21.9 Other 5.4 5.4 Plant and equipment 46.4 40.5 Land and buildings 28.6 29.0 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 Other charges 616.3 629.5 Total operating costs 2,235.3 2,123.3 6 Auditors remuneration An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditor is provided below: 2018 2017 m m 1 Audit of the Financial Statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of subsidiaries 0.9 0.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.3 1 Includes 0.1m of additional fees for specific procedures performed in relation to the implementation of new accounting standards.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 134 134 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 1,093.2 1,010.8 Social security costs 151.0 136.8 Pension costs note 34 10.3 8.7 Share-based payment note 8 6.4 5.3 1,260.9 1,161.6 The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 Managerial and administrative 4,415 4,347 Operational 42,288 41,917 46,703 46,264 Included in the above are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Executive Directors of the parent Company.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report: 2018 2017 m m Basic salaries 1.3 1.2 Benefits 0.9 0.8 Performance-related bonuses 1.9 2.0 Share-based payment 2.8 2.1 6.9 6.1 b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding at the end of the year under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of Future share options share options Exercise exercise 2018 2017 price periods Long-Term Incentive Plan 5,909,026 6,162,640 nil 2019-2023 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 155,521 183,883 129p-392p 2019-2028 Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 181,668 123,341 nil 2019 6,246,215 6,469,864 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 135 135 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is open to Executive Directors and senior management with awards made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, normally on an annual basis and in the form of a nil cost option over a certain number of shares in the Company.
The vesting of shares on the third anniversary of grant is subject to the Companys achievement against specific performance conditions and growth targets set at the date of grant which: i relate to earnings per share EPS, return on capital employed ROCE and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies and the FTSE 250 Index, and ii are measured over the three-year financial period commencing with the year of grant.
An accrual entitlement in respect of dividends paid by the Company during the vesting period attaches to vested shares and is paid to participants on vesting.
Similarly, dividends are payable on unexercised vested shares held by Executive Directors during their compulsory two-year holding period which runs from the date of vesting in parallel with the two-year exercise period.
The LTIP allows for the grant to UK participants of an HMRC approved share option over shares with a market value of up to a maximum of 30,000 outstanding at any time.
These are awarded at the same time as, and with the same performance conditions as, the LTIP awards and work by way of set-off versus the vested LTIP share value on exercise with the excess LTIP option award being forfeited.
In each of the years 2012 to 2014 inclusive, a supplementary nil cost option LTIP award was granted to the Group Chief Executive.
The vesting of these shares on the fifth anniversary of grant is subject to the Companys achievement against specific performance conditions and growth targets set at each date of grant which: i relate to EPS and the relative TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies and or the FTSE 250 Index, and ii are measured over the five-year financial period commencing with the year of grant.
Unvested shares automatically lapse and no dividend accrual entitlement exists.
The exercise vesting period is one year and no compulsory holding period applies.
Vested shares for all LTIP awards are normally delivered in the form of market purchased shares held in the Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
No cash settlement alternative is available at present.
ii Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP The delivery of the annual bonus award for Executive Directors is structured in two distinct parts, an initial cash payment under the annual bonus plan and a one-year deferred payment award in the form of forfeitable shares in the Company granted under the EDBP.
Release of the shares on the first anniversary of grant is not subject to any additional performance condition, save for continuing employment.
Participants are entitled to receive any dividends paid by the Company on the shares while they are held in the EBT during the deferred period.
iii West Midlands Travel Long Service Option Scheme WMT LSOS The WMT LSOS is used to reward WMT employees who attain 25 years service.
The market-value option award over a certain number of shares in the Company is exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant.
There are no performance conditions and shares are delivered on exercise through the EBT.
No cash settlement alternative is available.
iv Travel West Midland Share Incentive Plan TWM SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
However, the plan is closed to new entrants and no awards have been granted under it since May 2008.
At 31 December 2018, 1,079 2017: 1,079 shares in the Company were held by the Trustee for the benefit of existing participants.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 136 136 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 8 Share-based payments The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups Income Statement for the year is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations 6.4 5.3 During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group had four share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of share price of share price options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 183,883 295 215,367 323 Granted during the year 27,000 392 12,600 364 Forfeited during the year 16,649 283 4,693 284 Exercised during the year 27,811 272 13,789 249 Expired during the year 10,902 594 25,602 583 Outstanding at 31 December 155,521 298 183,883 295 Exercisable at 31 December 97,077 260 84,986 275 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 6,285,981 nil 7,614,819 nil Granted during the year 2,159,093 nil 2,205,273 nil Forfeited during the year nil 606,359 nil Exercised during the year 2,220,498 nil 2,759,291 nil Expired during the year 133,882 nil 168,461 nil Outstanding at 31 December 6,090,694 nil 6,285,981 nil Exercisable at 31 December 51,955 nil nil Total outstanding at 31 December 6,246,215 6,469,864 Total exercisable at 31 December 149,032 84,986 The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 392p 2017: between 129p and 590p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: 2018 2017 Exercise price p Number Number 100-300 74,196 95,718 301-350 44,625 65,404 351-600 36,700 22,761 155,521 183,883 The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year 2017: one year.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 387p 2017: 361p.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 137 137 8 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without Share options with nil exercise price nil exercise price 2018 2017 2018 2017 Risk-free interest rate 1.04% 0.44% 0.85% 0.11% Expected volatility 21% 25% 20% 22% Peer group volatility 27%-29% 28%-29% Expected option life in years 5 years 5 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.42% 0.0% 0.0% Weighted average share price at grant date 386p 359p 387p 359p Weighted average exercise price at grant date 392p 364p nil nil Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 43p 49p 342p 291p Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% 2017: 24% of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs 2018 2017 m m Bond and bank interest payable 36.8 38.0 Finance lease interest payable 4.4 3.9 Other interest payable 3.8 2.7 Unwind of provision discounting 1.2 1.3 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension obligations 2.2 2.1 Finance costs 48.4 48.0 Other financial income 9.8 10.0 Net finance costs 38.6 38.0 Of which, from financial instruments: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 40.6 40.7 Derivatives 9.3 9.3 Loan fee amortisation 1.5 1.2 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 138 138 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge in the year 2017 2018 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 2.9 5.0 Overseas taxation 16.0 14.5 Current income tax charge 18.9 19.5 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 0.1 1.2 Total current income tax charge 18.8 20.7 Deferred taxation note 27 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 17.7 19.5 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 0.8 13.7 Deferred tax charge 18.5 5.8 Total tax charge for the Group 37.3 26.5 Amounts relating to discontinued items 1.7 1.5 Total tax charge for the continuing Group 39.0 28.0 The tax charge for the continuing Group is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before separately disclosed items 49.0 48.0 Tax credit on separately disclosed items 10.0 20.0 39.0 28.0 In the current year, the tax credit on separately disclosed items of 10.0m relates to tax relief on intangible amortisation and is determined by reference to the tax rates in the jurisdiction to which the intangible amortisation relates.
The effective tax rate relating to intangible amortisation is significantly higher than the UK tax rate of 19.0% due to the weighting of intangibles in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the UK, specifically the US 26% and Spain 25%.
In the prior year, the tax credit on separately disclosed items of 20.0m comprised an 11.4m tax credit on intangibles, a 7.5m net credit in relation to the tax rate reduction and a tax credit of 1.1m on other items.
b Tax on items recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 2018 2017 m m Current taxation: Credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.5 1.0 0.5 1.0 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses 4.0 2.1 Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges 3.1 3.4 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange differences 2.7 Deferred tax charge on share-based payments 1.2 1.6 5.6 2.9 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 139 139 10 Taxation continued c Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2018 2017 m m 156.4 Profit before income tax continuing Group 177.7 30.1 Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 33.8 Recurring items: Non-deductible goodwill impairment 1.6 1.6 0.1 Non-deductible intangible amortisation 0.6 11.0 Effect of overseas tax rates 9.1 4.2 4.9 Tax incentives 0.6 State taxes Non-recurring items: 3.0 Overseas financing deductions 0.7 2.1 Adjustments to prior years within current and deferred tax excluding movements in tax provisions 0.7 0.8 Release of tax provisions 0.4 7.5 Effect of reduction in tax rates Non-deductible expenditure 1.0 2.6 2.2 Indexation in relation to property disposals 1.0 Non-creditable withholding tax 0.9 0.1 Utilisation of a deferred tax asset for previously unrecognised tax losses Total tax charge reported in the Income Statement note 10 a 39.0 28.0 Included within the tax reconciliation are a number of non-recurring items, the effect of a reduction in tax rates and the release of tax provisions.
During the year, the UK business disposed of properties and land which benefited from indexation on the capital gain calculation resulting in a tax credit of 2.2m.
Items expected to recur in the tax reconciliation for 2018 include the difference in rates between the UK and our overseas markets, tax incentives on re-investment credits and the merger of our Spanish businesses.
The UK corporation tax rate has reduced in the year from 19.25% to 19.0% due to a reduction in the UK statutory corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
The difference in the corporation tax rate of 19.0% and deferred tax rate of 17.6% has resulted in a 0.4m credit during the year.
On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law.
The main change was to reduce the US federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% from 1 January 2018.
At the Balance Sheet date, the 21% rate 2017: 21% was substantively enacted.
This change in rate has resulted in a net tax credit of 7.5m to the Income Statement in the prior year.
d Tax provisions At 31 December 2018, the Group held tax provisions of 7.9m, representing a number of tax uncertainties such as the deductibility of interest expense in the UK and Spain and the Moroccan and US tax audits.
All UK corporation tax returns up to 2017 have been submitted and agreed by HMRC.
There has been a net decrease of 1.7m in tax provisions, which represents releases of tax reserves where the statute of limitation has closed 0.7m and in respect of a liability in our Moroccan business.
Based on the experience of the Group Tax department and after discussions of the various tax uncertainties with our tax advisers, the year end tax provision represents managements best estimate of the tax uncertainties of which we are aware.
The provision for the Groups tax uncertainties of 7.9m is included in current tax liabilities.
At 31 December 2017, the Group held tax provisions of 9.6m to cover tax uncertainties across our various markets.
All UK corporation tax returns up to 2016 were submitted and agreed by HMRC except for one outstanding matter.
e Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2017: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax.
There are no temporary differences 2017: nil associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 140 140 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 10 Taxation continued f Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
Based on current forecasts, it is estimated that the losses recognised for deferred tax purposes will be utilised within three to four years.
UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the Financial Statements relate to gross losses of 17.6m 2017: 17.7m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future taxable profits.
The majority of the unrecognised losses relates to UK entities where it is uncertain when, or if, the losses will be utilised.
g Deferred tax included in the Income Statement 2018 2017 m m 10.5 4.8 Accelerated capital allowances Other short-term temporary differences 10.3 4.2 2.3 6.4 Recognition utilisation of losses Deferred tax charge note 10 a 18.5 5.8 Details on the Balance Sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27. h Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no known significant factors that may affect future tax charges.
11 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale a Discontinued operations On 24 June 2018 the Group handed back the Midland Metro tram operations to the West Midlands Combined Authority.
This operation was recognised as discontinued in the 2017 Annual Report, along with the disposal of the Thameside c2c franchise which was sold to Trenitalia.
Details of the discontinued operations are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Revenue 5.1 29.7 Operating costs 6.8 31.2 Trading loss before tax 1.7 1.5 One-off costs relating to discontinued operations 7.0 Gross profit on disposal of discontinued operations 12.9 Net loss profit from discontinued operations before tax 1.7 4.4 Attributable income tax credit 1.7 1.5 Net profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity shareholders 5.9 The net cash flows incurred by the discontinued operations during the year are as follows.
These cash flows are included within the Group Statement of Cash Flows: 2018 2017 m m Cash inflow outflow from operating activities 0.4 14.8 Cash outflow from investing activities 0.5 Net cash inflow outflow 0.4 15.3 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 141 141 11 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale continued b Assets held for sale Two subsidiaries and two buildings met the held for sale criteria of IFRS 5 at 31 December 2018.
The assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries and carrying value of the buildings have been classified as held for sale in the Balance Sheet and comprise the following: Subsidiaries Buildings Total 2018 2018 2018 m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.1 4.5 4.6 Intangible assets 12.8 12.8 Trade and other receivables 5.2 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.2 Total assets held for sale 18.3 4.5 22.8 Trade and other payables 1.1 1.1 Non current deferred tax liability 2.6 2.6 Total liabilities held for sale 3.7 3.7 Net assets 14.6 4.5 19.1 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2018 2017 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2017 paid of 9.25p per share 2016: 8.41p 47.3 42.9 Ordinary interim dividend for 2018 of 4.69p per share 2017: 4.26p 23.5 21.8 70.8 64.7 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2018 of 10.17p per share 2017: 9.25p per share 51.9 47.3 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 142 142 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 13 Earnings per share 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 26.6p 25.7p Normalised basic earnings per share 32.9p 29.1p Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 26.6p 24.5p Diluted earnings per share 26.5p 25.5p Normalised diluted earnings per share 32.8p 29.0p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 26.5p 24.4p Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 135.7m 2017: 131.0m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust note 32 which are treated as cancelled.
Basic EPS for continuing operations is calculated by dividing the earnings from the continuing Group attributable to equity shareholders of 135.7m 2017: 125.1m.
Basic and diluted EPS in the year for discontinued operations was nil 2017: 1.2p and nil 2017: 1.1p respectively.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 2018 2017 Basic weighted average shares 510,682,902 510,407,865 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 2,197,926 2,336,951 Diluted weighted average shares 512,880,828 512,744,816 The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business operations more appropriately.
The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: 2018 2017 Basic EPS Diluted EPS Basic EPS Diluted EPS m p p m p p Profit attributable to equity shareholders 135.7 26.6 26.5 131.0 25.7 25.5 Intangible amortisation for acquired businesses 42.3 8.3 8.2 38.0 7.4 7.4 UK restructuring costs 5.6 1.1 1.1 Separately disclosed tax 10.0 2.0 1.9 20.0 3.9 3.9 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 5.9 1.2 1.1 Normalised profit attributable to equity shareholders 168.0 32.9 32.8 148.7 29.1 29.0 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 143 143 14 Intangible assets Contract Customer mobilisation Total finite contracts Software costs life assets Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2018 767.1 98.3 17.8 883.2 1,358.0 2,241.2 Acquisitions 55.8 55.8 105.5 161.3 Additions 0.9 11.9 3.4 16.2 16.2 Disposals 1.7 4.4 6.1 6.1 Reclassifications 0.2 5.0 4.8 4.8 Assets reclassified as held for sale note 11 7.9 7.8 15.7 15.7 Foreign exchange 22.0 3.8 0.3 26.1 39.2 65.3 At 31 December 2018 836.4 96.8 21.5 954.7 1,502.7 2,457.4 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2018 501.1 64.4 1.9 567.4 40.4 607.8 Charge for year 37.5 8.5 1.0 47.0 47.0 Disposals 4.4 4.4 4.4 Reclassifications 2.8 2.8 2.8 Assets reclassified as held for sale note 11 2.0 0.9 2.9 2.9 Foreign exchange 11.0 2.4 0.1 13.5 1.7 15.2 At 31 December 2018 547.6 67.2 3.0 617.8 42.1 659.9 Net book value: At 31 December 2018 288.8 29.6 18.5 336.9 1,460.6 1,797.5 At 1 January 2018 266.0 33.9 15.9 315.8 1,317.6 1,633.4 Contract Customer mobilisation Total finite contracts Software costs life assets Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2017 708.7 71.7 16.3 796.7 1,349.4 2,146.1 Acquisitions 59.6 59.6 64.5 124.1 Additions 1.2 8.8 1.7 11.7 11.7 Disposals 2.9 1.1 4.0 46.1 50.1 Reclassifications 5.2 23.2 0.9 27.5 27.5 Foreign exchange 4.7 4.3 0.7 8.3 9.8 18.1 At 31 December 2017 767.1 98.3 17.8 883.2 1,358.0 2,241.2 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2017 462.7 49.5 0.8 513.0 84.5 597.5 Charge for year 32.2 8.4 1.0 41.6 41.6 Disposals 2.9 1.3 4.2 46.2 50.4 Reclassifications 1.8 10.5 12.3 0.3 12.6 Foreign exchange 7.3 2.7 0.1 4.7 1.8 6.5 At 31 December 2017 501.1 64.4 1.9 567.4 40.4 607.8 Net book value: At 31 December 2017 266.0 33.9 15.9 315.8 1,317.6 1,633.4 At 1 January 2017 246.0 22.2 15.5 283.7 1,264.9 1,548.6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 144 144 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 14 Intangible assets continued Goodwill has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2018 2017 m m UK 27.6 16.7 North America 620.7 518.0 ALSA 812.3 782.9 1,460.6 1,317.6 The calculation of value in use for each group of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the assumptions over discount rates and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan.
The key assumptions used for the cash-generating units are as follows: Growth rate used to Pre-tax discount extrapolate cash flows rate applied to beyond three-year period of cash flow projections management plan 2018 2017 2018 2017 UK 7.7% 7.5% 2.6% 2.6% North America 7.6% 7.5% 2.8% 2.8% ALSA 8.6% 8.6% 2.8% 2.8% The growth rates used to extrapolate cash flow projections are derived from financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three-year period.
The assumptions in these forecasts, which include growth rates and operating margins, are based on historical experience and detailed budget plans as well as managements assessment of current market and economic conditions.
Long-term growth rates take into account any known events which would impact cash flows outside of the three-year planning period and are set with reference to long-term CPI rates and projected GDP growth.
The cash flows are discounted using pre-tax rates that are calculated from country-specific weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The value in use of the North America division exceeds its carrying amount by 419.3m 2017: 557.3m.
The value in use of the ALSA division exceeds its carrying amount by 139.5m 2017: 189.7m.
Sensitivities to key and other assumptions The sensitivity analysis below has been presented in the interests of transparency and consistency only.
It is not believed that any reasonably possible movement in key and other assumptions will lead to an impairment.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation.
This indicates that the value in use of the North America division will be equal to its carrying value with an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 1.5% 2017: 2.3% or a reduction in the growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 1.6% 2017: 2.5%.
In addition, for North America, a reduction in operating profit margin of 1.6% 2017: 2.5% will result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
North Americas operating profit margin for 2018 was 9.1% 2017: 9.3%.
For ALSA, sensitivity analysis on each key assumption indicates that the value in use will be equal to its carrying amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 1.1% 2017: 0.9% or a reduction in growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 0.6% 2017: 0.9%.
A reduction in ALSAs operating profit margin of 1.0% 2017: 1.5% will result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
ALSAs operating profit margin for 2018 was 14.1% 2017: 14.3%.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts and therefore that goodwill is not impaired.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 145 145 15 Property, plant and equipment Long Plant and leasehold Public equipment, Freehold land property service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2018 112.9 15.4 1,667.8 204.5 2,000.6 Acquisitions 5.3 21.2 0.6 27.1 Additions 0.9 6.0 188.7 14.5 210.1 Disposals 14.1 4.7 99.5 64.0 182.3 Reclassifications 0.2 5.0 4.8 Assets reclassified as held for sale note 11 4.5 0.2 4.7 Foreign exchange 1.2 0.6 57.2 2.7 61.7 At 31 December 2018 106.0 12.8 1,835.4 163.1 2,117.3 Depreciation: At 1 January 2018 30.8 8.9 833.8 158.9 1,032.4 Charge for the year 2.7 0.4 119.9 10.8 133.8 Disposals 7.0 4.7 71.6 55.8 139.1 Reclassifications 2.8 2.8 Assets reclassified as held for sale note 11 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.2 30.1 2.1 32.7 At 31 December 2018 26.8 4.8 912.2 118.7 1,062.5 Net book value: At 31 December 2018 79.2 8.0 923.2 44.4 1,054.8 At 1 January 2018 82.1 6.5 834.0 45.6 968.2 Plant and Long leasehold Public equipment, Freehold land property service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2017 113.3 11.8 1,649.2 212.3 1,986.6 Acquisitions 10.4 0.2 10.6 Additions 1.3 3.3 136.4 26.7 167.7 Disposals 4.5 67.8 5.7 78.0 Reclassifications 30.4 30.4 Foreign exchange 2.8 0.3 60.4 1.4 55.9 At 31 December 2017 112.9 15.4 1,667.8 204.5 2,000.6 Depreciation: At 1 January 2017 29.4 7.8 800.0 165.8 1,003.0 Charge for the year 2.5 0.4 123.0 9.7 135.6 Disposals 1.7 57.7 5.5 64.9 Reclassifications 12.5 12.5 Foreign exchange 0.6 0.7 31.5 1.4 28.8 At 31 December 2017 30.8 8.9 833.8 158.9 1,032.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2017 82.1 6.5 834.0 45.6 968.2 At 1 January 2017 83.9 4.0 849.2 46.5 983.6 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 146 146 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 15 Property, plant and equipment continued Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Public service vehicles cost 314.4 341.5 depreciation 160.3 157.9 Total net book value 154.1 183.6 Assets held under finance lease agreements are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
16 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the results and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is disclosed in note 39, along with the addresses of their registered offices.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited trading as Travel Dundee Operation of bus services Incorporated in the US Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Petermann Ltd Operation of school bus services National Express Transit Corporation Operation of transit bus services National Express Transit Services Corporation Operation of transit bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain 1 NEX Continental Holdings S. L. Holding company for operating companies 1 Tury Express S. A.
Holding company for operating companies 1 General Tecnica Industrial S. L. U.
Holding company for operating companies Incorporated in Morocco Groupe Alsa Transport S. A.
Operation of bus services Transport fide Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc S. A.
Operation of bus services Alsa Tanger S. A.
Operation of bus services Alsa City Agadir S. A.
Operation of bus services Incorporated in Germany National Express Rail GmbH Operation of train passenger services 1 The main holding companies of the ALSA Group.
The Group has no material non-controlling interests that require separate disclosure.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 147 147 17 Non-current financial assets 2018 2017 m m Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Unlisted ordinary shares 6.7 8.1 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 1.5 2.5 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 6.7 10.0 Derivative financial instruments Cross currency swaps 0.9 Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets 8.2 13.4 Total non-current financial instruments 14.9 21.5 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 0.4 7.9 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 3.9 4.2 Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange derivatives 3.6 3.3 Derivative financial instruments included in current assets 7.9 15.4 Further information on the Groups use of derivatives is included in note 31.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 2018 2017 m m Fair value: At 1 January 8.1 7.8 1 Change in accounting policies 0.7 At 1 January restated 7.4 7.8 Disposals in the year 0.8 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 6.7 8.1 1 Opening balances have been restated for the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments see note 2.
The principal financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are as follows: 2018 2017 Proportion Proportion Country of held held Name registration Class of share % % Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Spain Ordinary shares 15 15 Other small investments within ALSA Spain Ordinary shares 1-16 1-16 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income comprise holdings in equity shares of non-listed companies.
The Group elected to designate the non-listed equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income as the Group considers these investments to be strategic in nature.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 148 148 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Joint ventures 10.2 8.5 Associates 2.7 2.8 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 12.9 11.3 The Groups share of post-tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Ibero-Eurosur S. L. 3.6 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. 1.1 0.9 Share of joint ventures profit loss 1.1 2.7 Share of associates loss 0.2 0.8 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.9 3.5 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Name Country of registration Activity Proportion held % Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. Kingdom of Bahrain Operation of bus services 50 The summarised financial information for individually immaterial joint ventures is set out below: Bahrain Public Transport Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Company W. L. L. 2018 2017 2018 2017 Share of the joint ventures balance sheets and results m m m m Non-current assets 0.2 0.2 16.4 16.9 Current assets 7.0 5.9 Share of gross assets 0.2 0.2 23.4 22.8 0.2 0.2 6.8 9.6 Non-current liabilities Current liabilities 6.4 4.7 0.2 0.2 13.2 14.3 Share of gross liabilities Net assets 10.2 8.5 Revenue 6.0 6.4 3.6 0.7 0.7 Operating profit loss 3.6 1.1 0.9 Profit loss after tax Profit loss for the year and total comprehensive income 3.6 1.7 0.2 Dividends received from the joint ventures during the year A reconciliation of the above summarised information to the carrying amount in the Consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: Bahrain Public Transport Ibero-Eurosur S. L Company W. L. L. 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Net assets of the joint venture 20.4 17.0 Proportion of interest belonging to joint venture partners 10.2 8.5 Group share of net assets 10.2 8.5 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 149 149 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Country of Proportion Name registration held % ALSA associates Spain 17-80 ALSAs associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The summarised aggregated financial information for individually immaterial associates is set our below: 2018 2017 m m Share of operating loss 0.2 0.8 Share of loss for the year and total comprehensive income and expenditure 0.2 0.8 Group share of net assets 2.7 2.8 The carrying amount of the investment in associates equals the Groups share of the net assets.
19 Business combinations, disposals and assets held for sale a Acquisitions North America During the year, the North America division acquired 100% control of seven businesses in the US, none of which are individually material: Quality Bus Service LLC school bus and charter bus services in Sparrowbush, NY Aristocrat Limousine & Bus Company charter bus services in Parsippany, NJ A&S Transportation Inc. school bus transportation services in Naples, FL A1A Transportation Inc. school bus transportation services in Davie, FL Wise Coaches, Inc. motor coach and charter bus services in Nashville, TN Kiessling Transit, Inc. paratransit bus services in Norfolk, MA Wehrle Bus Service school bus transportation services in Cliffwood, NJ In aggregate, the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, along with adjustments to the fair values of prior year acquisitions, were as follows: m Intangible assets 21.9 Property, plant and equipment 8.1 Trade and other receivables 6.3 Cash overdraft 2.4 Trade and other payables 22.7 Provisions 17.4 Deferred tax assets 8.9 Net assets acquired 2.7 Goodwill 74.7 Total consideration 77.4 Represented by: Cash consideration 56.6 Overdraft acquired in the businesses 2.4 Deferred consideration 23.2 77.4 Given the proximity of acquisitions to the year end, and as permitted by IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and liabilities have been presented on a provisional basis.
Trade and other receivables had a gross contractual value of 6.9m and fair value of 6.3m.
At the acquisition date, the best estimate of the contractual cash flows not to be collected was 0.6m.
Goodwill of 74.7m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our North American operations, along with synergy benefits expected to be achieved.
The amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes is 19.7m.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 150 150 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 19 Business combinations, disposals and assets held for sale continued Included in the deferred consideration shown above is contingent consideration of 16.8m relating to seven acquisitions.
For these acquisitions, the Group is required to pay an indemnity contingent on the performance of sellers indemnification obligations or other post-closing obligations under the acquisition agreements.
The payments are dependent on meeting the respective conditions, with a minimum expected undiscounted payment of nil and maximum expected undiscounted payment of 16.8m.
Based on projections, the Group expects the maximum amount to be paid.
The amount recognised is undiscounted as the effect of discounting is not material.
The acquired businesses contributed 35.5m of revenue and 9.6m to the Groups profit for the periods between the dates of control and the Balance Sheet date.
Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups continuing revenue for the year would have been 2,476.5m and the Groups continuing operating profit would have been 216.0m.
b Acquisitions ALSA During the year, the ALSA division acquired control of three businesses in Spain, none of which are material individually: Argabus S. A.
100% commuter urban and charter bus services in Madrid area, Spain BC Tours 75% tourist charter, other transportation services and coastal trade in Palma fide Mallorca, Spain Autos Cal Pita S. A.
97% regional and charter bus services in Galicia, Spain In aggregate, the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: m Intangible assets 33.9 Property, plant and equipment 13.0 Trade and other receivables 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 23.6 Debt and debt equivalents 1.8 Trade and other payables 11.9 Deferred tax liabilities 8.6 Minority interests 2.1 Net assets acquired 50.4 Goodwill 19.9 Total consideration 70.3 Represented by: Cash consideration 44.1 Payments for cash acquired in the businesses 23.6 Deferred consideration 2.6 70.3 Trade and other receivables had a fair value and a gross contractual value of 4.3m.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected was nil.
Goodwill of 19.9m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our operations in Spain, along with synergy benefits expected to be achieved.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Included in the consideration shown above is contingent consideration of 2.6m relating to Autos Cal Pita S. A..
The Group is required to pay consideration on renewal of contracts on a one-year to two-year basis.
The payment is dependent on meeting the respective conditions, with a minimum expected undiscounted payment of nil and maximum expected undiscounted payment of 2.6m.
The acquired businesses contributed 34.2m of revenue and 6.5m to the Groups profit for the periods between the dates of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups continuing revenue for the year would have been 2,461.9m and the Groups continuing operating profit would have been 216.1m.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 151 151 19 Business combinations, disposals and assets held for sale continued c Acquisitions UK During the year, the UK division acquired 100% control of Stewarts Coach Group Limited.
The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: m Goodwill 0.2 Property, plant and equipment 6.0 Trade and other receivables 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 Debt and debt equivalents 6.6 Trade and other payables 2.6 Provisions 1.3 Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 Net liabilities acquired 1.5 Goodwill 10.7 Total consideration 9.2 Represented by: Cash consideration 6.7 Payments for cash acquired in the businesses 1.5 Deferred consideration 1.0 9.2 Trade and other receivables had a fair value and a gross contractual value of 1.9m.
Goodwill of 10.7m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired business and synergy benefits expected to be achieved.
Included in the consideration shown above is contingent consideration of 1.0m.
The Group is required to pay consideration contingent on pre-determined revenue and EBIT thresholds being met for the period to 31 March 2019.
The payment is dependent on meeting the respective conditions, with a minimum expected undiscounted payment of nil and maximum expected undiscounted payment of 1.0m.
The acquired businesses contributed 4.0m of revenue and 1.1m to the Groups profit for the periods between the dates of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups continuing revenue for the year would have been 2,455.1m and the Groups continuing operating profit would have been 215.2m.
d Acquisitions further information Deferred consideration of 38.3m was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in North America in earlier years.
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in the North America division was therefore 94.9m, comprising consideration for current year acquisitions of 54.2m and deferred consideration of 38.3m, plus overdraft acquired in the businesses of 2.4m.
In addition, for North America, during the year there was a reduction to the provisional fair values of businesses acquired in the prior year of 12.5m, with a resultant increase in goodwill.
Deferred consideration of 0.2m was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in the ALSA division in earlier years.
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in the ALSA division was therefore 44.3m, comprising consideration of 67.7m and deferred consideration of 0.2m, less cash acquired in the businesses of 23.6m.
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in the UK division was 6.7m, comprising consideration of 8.2m, less cash acquired in the businesses of 1.5m.
Total acquisition transaction costs of 2.2m were incurred in the year to 31 December 2018.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 152 152 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 19 Business combinations, disposals and assets held for sale continued e Disposals On 10 February 2017, the Group disposed of the National Express Essex Thameside c2c franchise to Trenitalia.
Cash in the business on disposal was 14.9m and cash outflows relating to costs of disposal were 14.1m, therefore the net cash inflow in the prior year from the disposal was 42.8m.
Further details of this disposal are disclosed in note 11.
20 Non-current assets trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Prepayments 0.3 0.5 Other receivables 2.7 19.6 3.0 20.1 Other receivables in 2017 includes amounts relating to insurance claims awaiting settlement.
21 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials and consumables 27.4 24.9 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
22 Current assets trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 233.4 202.5 Grants and subsidies receivable 65.2 49.8 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures note 36 2.5 1.6 Amounts due from other related parties note 36 0.5 0.7 Trade and grant receivables 301.6 254.6 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 29.4 13.5 Trade and grant receivables net note 30 272.2 241.1 Other receivables 70.7 63.4 Prepayments 36.7 28.6 Accrued income 29.0 23.2 408.6 356.3 Information about the credit risk exposure of the Groups trade receivables is shown in note 30.
Trade receivables excludes 45.0m 2017: 49.1m that was subject to factoring arrangements without recourse.
Certain amounts included within current and non-current other receivables are in relation to insurance claims awaiting settlement.
Additional disclosure regarding these claims may unfairly prejudice the Groups position and consequently this disclosure is not provided.
None of the remaining amounts within other receivables are individually material.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
23 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 74.6 100.7 Overnight deposits 1.9 4.9 Other short-term deposits 41.2 208.7 117.7 314.3 Less: amounts included within assets classified as held for sale 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 117.5 314.3 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the agreed short-term floating deposit rate.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 153 153 24 Current liabilities trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 325.3 258.5 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures note 36 1.0 1.0 Amounts owed to other related parties note 36 1.6 1.3 Other tax and social security payable 25.8 27.3 Accruals and deferred income 258.0 197.7 Other payables 258.8 186.6 870.5 672.4 Trade payables are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms and other payables have an average term of four months.
Accruals and deferred income includes 28.6m 26.3m of deferred income.
This primarily relates to season ticket revenue where we expect to fulfil the performance obligation within one year.
Other payables includes 160.3m 2017: 101.7m for the purchase of property, plant and equipment where increased payment terms have been agreed with the supplier due to the nature of the payable.
The Group settles these amounts in accordance with the suppliers standard payment terms: however, the supplier has the option to receive payment earlier from a bank at a discount to the invoice price.
Other payables also includes deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 0.5m 2017: 0.7m, advance payments for factoring of divisional revenues of 43.7m 2017: 12.5m and 45.9m 2017: 54.0m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired, of which 8.5m 2017: 49.2m relates to businesses acquired in the year note 19.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2018 2017 m m Deferred fixed asset grants 3.2 2.8 Other payables 22.0 33.2 25.2 36.0 Other payables includes 21.2m 2017: 32.5m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired, of which 18.3m 2017: 25.8m relates to businesses acquired in the year note 19.
26 Provisions Claims Provision Other Total m m m At 1 January 2018 114.1 16.8 130.9 Charged to the Income Statement 27.8 3.5 31.3 Amounts settled through insurers 25.5 25.5 Utilised in the year 44.8 9.5 54.3 Unwinding of discount 1.2 1.2 Acquired in business combinations 17.4 1.3 18.7 Exchange difference 5.4 0.2 5.6 At 31 December 2018 95.6 12.3 107.9 Current 31 December 2018 49.2 9.5 58.7 Non-current 31 December 2018 46.4 2.8 49.2 95.6 12.3 107.9 Current 31 December 2017 54.3 11.2 65.5 Non-current 31 December 2017 59.8 5.6 65.4 114.1 16.8 130.9 The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years.
It comprises provisions for claims arising in the UK and North America.
Other primarily relates to a potential reclaim of subsidies in ALSA.
The majority will be utilised within one year, with the remainder expected to be utilised within the next five years.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 154 154 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 27 Deferred tax 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 18.6 34.6 1 Change in accounting policies 9.8 At 1 January restated 8.8 34.6 Charge to the Income Statement 18.5 5.8 Credit charge to Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 5.6 4.1 Exchange differences 0.9 1.3 Acquired in business combinations 0.3 24.6 22.9 18.6 Less: amounts reclassified as held for sale 2.6 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 20.3 18.6 1 Opening balances have been restated for the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers see note 2.
Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
2018 2017 Deferred tax assets m m Accelerated tax depreciation 1.3 4.6 Losses carried forward 33.5 30.7 Pensions 19.5 15.9 Intangibles and deductible goodwill 13.6 10.6 Other short-term temporary differences 4.6 0.8 42.7 41.4 2018 2017 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 212.4 178.2 Losses carried forward 60.0 43.4 Intangibles and deductible goodwill 80.3 73.6 Taxation credits 1.8 1.6 Other short-term temporary differences 4.7 0.4 65.6 60.0 Less: amounts included within liabilities classified as held for sale 2.6 63.0 60.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset, with deferred tax assets of 42.7m arising in our UK and German businesses and deferred tax liabilities of 65.6m arising in our Spanish, US and Canadian businesses.
The deferred tax assets relating to losses carried forward are 93.5m 2017: 74.1m.
This comprises 33.5m 2017: 30.7m within deferred tax assets and 60.0m 2017: 43.4m within deferred tax liabilities.
Deferred tax assets relating to other short-term temporary differences of 4.6m 2017: 0.8m comprises timing differences on share-based payments, fair value of hedging and other smaller items.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets across the UK, US, Spanish and German businesses amounting to 204.4m that are considered to be able to be offset against the Groups future taxable profits.
Management has based its assessment on the latest forecast budget approved by the Board which reflects improved trading performance across all divisions largely due to the expansion of the business.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 155 155 28 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 2018 2017 m m Non-current Bank loans 8.6 8.4 Bonds 852.4 851.9 Finance lease obligations 94.6 124.1 Other debt payable 73.7 73.6 Non-current borrowings 1,029.3 1,058.0 Fuel derivatives 8.2 1.3 Cross currency swaps 4.4 Non-current derivative financial instruments 12.6 1.3 Non-current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 1,041.9 1,059.3 Current Bank loans 0.4 107.2 Finance lease obligations 48.0 49.0 Accrued interest on borrowings 10.9 11.2 Current borrowings 59.3 167.4 Fuel derivatives 6.4 3.9 Cross currency swaps 4.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 10.5 1.8 Current derivative financial instruments 16.9 9.8 Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 76.2 177.2 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 31.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 156 156 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 29 Interest-bearing borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 2018 Effective 2017 Effective m Maturity interest rate m Maturity interest rate 10-year Sterling bond 227.9 June 2020 6.85% 230.4 June 2020 6.85% 7-year Sterling bond 400.3 November 2023 2.54% 400.2 November 2023 2.54% 2.5-year Euro floating rate note 224.2 May 2020 EURIBOR 0.40% 221.3 May 2020 EURIBOR 0.40% Bonds 852.4 851.9 European bank loans 2.8 2019-2024 EURIBOR 0.90% 2.8 2018 EURIBOR 1.26% Moroccan bank loans 6.2 2019-2023 4.66%-4.85% 11.5 2018-2020 4.75% US bank loans 96.2 April 2018 USD LIBOR 0.75% Other short-term bank loans 5.1 Bank loans 9.0 115.6 US Dollar finance leases at fixed rate 119.9 2019-2024 3.23% 156.9 various 2.72% European finance leases at fixed rate 9.1 2019-2023 3.02% 6.8 2018-2023 3.02% European finance leases at floating rate 9.0 2019-2022 EURIBOR 1.10% 8.5 2018-2022 EURIBOR 1.61% Sterling finance leases at fixed rate 4.6 2019-2024 2.71% 0.9 2018 4.08% Finance leases 142.6 173.1 Euro Private Placement 73.7 August 2021 4.55% 73.6 August 2021 4.55% Other debt payable 73.7 73.6 Accrued interest Bonds 9.7 9.5 Accrued interest Private Placement 1.2 1.2 Accrued interest US bank loans 0.5 Accrued interest on borrowings 10.9 11.2 Total 1,088.6 1,225.4 The Group currently has 527.0m of unsecured committed revolving credit facilities, which mature in April 2023.
At 31 December 2018, there was nil 2017: nil drawn down on the facilities, with 2.6m of capitalised deal fees remaining.
Details of the Groups interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 30 and 31.
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result in its borrowings under those facilities becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to net interest payable.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 157 157 29 Interest-bearing borrowings continued The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups interest-bearing borrowings and deposits: 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 0.1 2.1 1.8 2.2 6.2 Bonds 227.9 400.3 628.2 Finance leases 45.2 30.3 20.0 19.1 12.2 6.8 133.6 Other debt payable 73.7 73.7 Floating rate Cash assets 117.7 117.7 Other debt receivables 2.1 2.1 Bank loans 0.3 2.4 0.1 2.8 Bonds 224.2 224.2 Finance leases 2.8 2.2 1.6 1.2 0.8 0.4 9.0 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 102.0 2.0 4.1 1.6 0.2 0.1 110.0 Bonds 230.4 400.2 630.6 Finance leases 45.8 38.2 25.5 17.8 17.6 19.7 164.6 Other debt payable 73.6 73.6 Floating rate Cash assets 314.3 314.3 Other debt receivables 0.7 0.7 Bank loans 5.2 0.4 5.6 Bonds 221.3 221.3 Finance leases 3.2 2.6 1.2 0.9 0.5 0.1 8.5 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 158 158 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Group is exposed to risks relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives.
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board to the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer.
The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular reporting to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee on its activities.
Foreign currency The Group has major foreign operations in the USA, Canada, Spain and Morocco and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets.
The Group seeks to reduce this foreign currency exchange movement risk by using a combination of foreign currency borrowings and entering into derivative financial instruments such as cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts.
At the year end, the Group had outstanding foreign exchange derivatives for net investment purposes of 54.0m, USD $82.8m and CAD $55.2m, and cross currency interest rate swaps of 222.7m.
The foreign exchange forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps are derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled to the Income Statement at the same time as the underlying hedged net assets affect the Income Statement.
Any material ineffectiveness is taken to the Income Statement.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of the derivative contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the related portion of the Groups overseas net investments.
It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or loss in the translation reserve of 56.5m.
2018 2017 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in currency m m m m US Dollar 10% 14.1 23.0 Euro 10% 39.4 39.2 Canadian Dollar 10% 3.0 4.9 US Dollar 10 % 14.1 23.0 Euro 10 % 39.4 39.2 Canadian Dollar 10 % 3.0 4.9 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 159 159 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
To achieve the desired fixed:floating ratio, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2018 the proportion of the Groups gross debt at floating rates was 37% 2017: 43%.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments were increased by 100 basis points it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would decrease by approximately 0.5m relating to Sterling, 2.8m relating to the Euro and increase 0.3m relating to the US Dollar.
The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2018.
2018 2017 Increase Effect Effect decrease on profit Effect on on profit Effect on in basis before tax reserves before tax reserves As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 0.5 1.6 US Dollar 100 0.3 0.2 Euro 100 2.8 2.8 Sterling 100 0.5 1.6 US Dollar 100 0.3 0.2 Euro 100 2.8 2.8 Commodity prices The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had hedged approximately 96% of its 2019 expected usage, 68% of its expected usage in 2020 and 23% of its expected usage in 2021 see the Group Finance Directors review for further details.
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and accordingly on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel derivatives.
For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 10% increase or decrease in all prices would have been 14.9m at 31 December 2018.
The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives.
2018 2017 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Increase on profit hedging on profit hedging decrease before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated diesel 10% 5.2 6.0 US Dollar denominated diesel 10% 2.8 3.2 US Dollar denominated gasoline 10% 1.6 1.0 Euro denominated diesel 10% 5.3 5.3 Sterling denominated diesel 10 % 5.2 6.0 US Dollar denominated diesel 10 % 2.8 3.2 US Dollar denominated gasoline 10 % 1.6 1.0 Euro denominated diesel 10 % 5.3 5.3 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 160 160 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Credit risk i Risk management The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
Many of the Groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are local public or quasi-public bodies, including school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco and the West Midlands Combined Authority in the UK, and regional authorities in Germany.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this, the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
ii Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses for all trade receivables at each reporting date.
Provision matrices are used to measure expected losses.
The provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments with similar loss patterns, such as geographical region, service type, and customer type and rating.
The calculation reflects the probability-weighted outcome and reasonable and supportable information that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
The table below shows the credit risk exposure on the Groups trade receivables as at 31 December 2018: Days past due Between Less than Carrying Between 30 61 and 90 amount 30 days Current and 60 days days Over 90 days 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Expected loss rate 9.7% 0.9% 3.4% 3.9% 9.7% 27.5% Gross carrying amount trade and grant receivables 301.6 158.4 25.2 13.6 11.5 92.9 Loss allowance 29.4 1.4 0.9 0.5 1.1 25.5 Trade receivables over 90 days primarily comprise amounts due from public authorities in ALSA, along with receivables for school bus services in North America where amounts are settled on approval from the local governing bodies at the end of the school period.
A loss provision of 25.5m is in place against these receivables.
Given that these are predominantly ongoing contractual relationships and with public bodies, the Directors believe that the remaining amounts will be collected.
In the prior year, the impairment of trade receivables was assessed based on the incurred loss model in accordance with IAS 39.
Trade receivables were assessed collectively to determine whether there was objective evidence that an impairment had been incurred but not yet been identified.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 161 161 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The closing loss allowance for trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 reconciles to the opening loss allowance as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 31 December calculated under IAS 39 13.5 12.9 1 Amounts restated through opening retained earnings for IFRS 9 16.7 Opening loss allowance as at 1 January 30.2 12.9 Increase in loss allowance recognised in Income Statement during the year 3.0 0.8 Utilised in the year 4.8 0.6 Arising on acquisitions 0.6 Exchange difference 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 29.4 13.5 1 Opening balances have been restated for the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments see note 2.
Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented as net impairment losses within operating profit.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same item.
Impairment provisions in respect of cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the requirements of IFRS 9 and at the reporting date no impairment loss was identified.
Liquidity risk Funding for the Group is coordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a syndicate of banks, and a series of medium-term notes.
The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12-month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2018 based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows.
As such, the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts disclosed in the Balance Sheet or other notes.
The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments.
Their amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg.
1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Bank loans 3.0 8.5 0.1 11.6 Bonds 25.1 904.7 929.8 Finance lease obligations 49.1 94.9 8.4 152.4 Other debt payable 3.2 77.0 80.2 Trade and other payables 870.0 22.0 892.0 950.4 1,107.1 8.5 2,066.0 Foreign exchange derivatives 10.5 10.5 Interest rate derivatives 3.7 6.9 10.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.0 7.6 9.6 Fuel derivatives 5.7 7.3 13.0 21.9 21.8 43.7 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 162 162 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Bank loans 107.3 8.3 115.6 Bonds 25.1 517.2 410.0 952.3 Finance lease obligations 53.5 112.5 20.5 186.5 Other debt payable 3.2 79.3 82.5 Trade and other payables 671.7 33.2 704.9 860.8 750.5 430.5 2,041.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.5 1.5 Interest rate derivatives 4.0 10.2 14.2 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.7 8.0 4.1 9.4 Fuel derivatives 3.8 1.5 5.3 6.6 19.7 4.1 30.4 Capital risk management The Groups capital structure consists of equity refer to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and net debt refer to note 37.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups debt is monitored on the basis of a gearing ratio, being net debt divided by EBITDA, further details of which are provided in the Group Finance Directors review.
The Group also uses return on capital employed ROCE as a measure of its ability to drive better returns on the capital invested in the Groups operations, further details of which are provided in the Group Finance Directors review.
31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values Financial assets at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and include trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of these instruments approximates their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities.
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income relates to the Groups non-listed equity investments.
Previously under IAS 39 these investments were carried at cost, however under IFRS 9 are now carried at fair value.
The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value with gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value.
For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement.
Amounts taken to Other Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Income Statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
For fair value hedges, all gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 163 163 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued The fair value measurement of derivative instruments is categorised within Level 2 ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, other than the deferred contingent consideration disclosed in note 19 and financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income in note 17.
There have not been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy and there are no non-recurring fair value movements.
Certain Group bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment.
After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A portion of the bonds is designated as the hedged item in an effective fair value hedging relationship.
As such, the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Groups credit risk, movements in interest rates on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees.
All other liabilities, including finance leases, bank loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable, are held at amortised cost.
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates to the fair value.
The following table illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2018.
At fair value Assets and through liabilities at other At fair value Derivatives amortised comprehensive through used for Classification of financial instruments cost income profit or loss hedging Total As at 31 December 2018 m m m m m Assets Investments 6.7 6.7 Fuel derivatives 1.9 1.9 Interest rate derivatives 10.6 10.6 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.6 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents 117.5 117.5 Trade and other receivables 345.6 345.6 463.1 6.7 10.6 5.5 485.9 Liabilities Bank loans 9.0 9.0 Bonds 862.1 862.1 Finance lease obligations 142.6 142.6 Other debt payable 74.9 74.9 Fuel derivatives 14.6 14.6 Cross currency swaps 4.4 4.4 Foreign exchange derivatives 10.5 10.5 Trade and other payables 892.0 892.0 1,980.6 29.5 2,010.1 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 164 164 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Assets Investments 8.1 8.1 Fuel derivatives 10.4 10.4 Interest rate derivatives 14.2 14.2 Cross currency swaps 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents 314.3 314.3 Trade and other receivables 324.1 324.1 638.4 8.1 14.6 14.2 675.3 Liabilities Bank loans 116.1 116.1 Bonds 861.4 861.4 Finance lease obligations 173.1 173.1 Other debt payable 74.8 74.8 Fuel derivatives 5.2 5.2 Cross currency swaps 4.1 4.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.8 1.8 Trade and other payables 704.9 704.9 11.1 1,930.3 1,941.4 Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
The Group assesses at each year end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the financial year 2018, there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets except the provision for impairment of receivables see note 22.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Group has reviewed its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 165 165 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
In line with IFRS 9 the Group classifies hedges as i fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, ii cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and iii hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In 2018, the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting to hedge floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions and for hedging net investments in its North American and European foreign operations.
The Group also applied fair value hedge accounting on 100m of the Groups fixed rate bonds and 78.5m Private Placement to hedge changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations.
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign Cross exchange Fuel Interest rate currency forward swaps swaps swaps contracts Total m m m m m Net asset liability at 1 January 2018 5.2 14.2 3.2 1.5 17.7 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 11.5 11.5 Cash settlements 7.6 20.0 27.6 Revaluation through Income Statement 3.6 3.6 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 6.4 6.4 Costs of hedging 1.4 1.4 Exchange differences 10.2 28.4 38.6 Net asset liability at 31 December 2018 12.7 10.6 4.4 6.9 13.4 Foreign Cross exchange Fuel Interest rate currency forward swaps swaps swaps contracts Total m m m m m Net asset liability at 1 January 2017 13.1 22.7 8.2 3.9 13.9 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 23.6 23.6 Cash settlements 5.7 5.7 Revaluation through Income Statement 9.6 9.6 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 5.3 5.3 Transfers 1.1 1.1 Exchange differences 11.4 11.1 0.3 Net asset liability at 31 December 2017 5.2 14.2 3.2 1.5 17.7 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 4.5 2.8 Transferred to Income Statement 11.5 23.6 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 6.4 5.3 Exchange differences 0.1 13.2 Tax on revaluation 3.1 3.4 At 31 December 10.2 4.5 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 166 166 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign currency net assets of the Group, which are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had designated 54.0m of foreign exchange forward contracts, 222.7m of cross currency interest rate swaps, a 250.0m floating rate note and a 78.5m Private Placement as net investment hedges of the net assets of the Groups European subsidiaries.
Similarly, USD $82.8m and CAD $55.2m of foreign exchange forward contracts were designated as a hedge of the net assets of the Groups North America subsidiaries.
No material ineffectiveness was recognised in relation to these hedges.
Fuel derivatives The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Fuel swaps are used to match the timing, type of fuel and currency in which the domestic physical fuel is purchased as closely as possible, with hedges currently in place from 2019 through to 2021.
During the year, 6.4m of fair value losses 2017: 5.3m losses have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements in market fuel prices.
A fair value gain of 11.5m 2017: 23.6m loss has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the Income Statement following settlement of fuel trades, of which a 4.0m gain was in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2018 and the remainder was generated during the year due to movements in market fuel prices.
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Hedge fuel derivatives Sterling denominated UK 1.0 0.7 74.5 74.6 Euro denominated ALSA 2.8 0.8 80.1 76.0 US Dollar and Canadian Dollar denominated North America 2.3 2.5 62.1 52.4 Fuel derivatives included in current assets liabilities 6.1 4.0 216.7 203.0 Sterling denominated UK 0.7 0.1 79.1 97.2 Euro denominated ALSA 2.3 0.5 81.4 77.1 US Dollar and Canadian Dollar denominated North America 3.6 1.8 73.6 63.1 Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets liabilities 6.6 1.2 234.1 237.4 Total hedge fuel derivatives 12.7 5.2 450.8 440.4 Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss In July 2010, the Group entered into two 50m interest rate swaps that pay floating interest LIBOR margin semi-annually and receive fixed interest annually.
These are designated as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with maturities matching the Groups 225m Sterling bonds maturing in June 2020.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk-free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds.
A fair value loss of 3.0m was recognised in the Income Statement during the year in relation to these swaps.
This was offset by a fair value gain of 3.0m on the underlying hedged item, being the change in fair value on 100m of the Groups 225m bonds due to changes in the risk-free interest rate.
In September 2012, the Group entered into two 39.25m denominated interest rate swaps equal in value to the Euro Private Placement.
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest EURIBOR margin semi-annually, receive fixed interest semi-annually with maturities matching the Euro Private Placement and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on the Private Placement.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit and loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk-free rate on the Euro Private Placement.
A fair value loss of 0.7m was recognised in the Income Statement during the year in relation to these swaps.
This was offset by a fair value gain of 0.7m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value of the Euro Private Placement due to changes in the risk-free interest rate.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 167 167 32 Called-up share capital 2018 2017 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 800,000,000 2017: 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 511,738,648 2017: 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 25.6 The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 2,248,309 2017: 2,773,080 of which 1,910,086 2017: 2,316,546 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
The remaining exercises were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market.
Own shares Own shares comprises 1,758,660 2017: 1,643,746 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 2,025,000 2017: 1,700,000 shares and 1,910,086 2017: 2,316,546 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
No shares 2017: nil were sold during the year to the open market.
The market value of the shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2018 was 6.6m 2017: 6.3m.
The dividends payable on 3,551,284 of these shares have been waived 2017: 1,520,405.
33 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2018 15.4 4.5 161.7 181.6 Exchange differences, net of tax 27.9 27.9 Hedge movements, net of tax 14.7 14.7 Cost of hedging 1.4 1.4 At 31 December 2018 15.4 10.2 191.0 196.2 Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 15.4 2.8 175.9 194.1 Hedge movements, net of tax 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences, net of tax 14.2 14.2 At 31 December 2017 15.4 4.5 161.7 181.6 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: The merger reserve included the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000.
The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised in equity on underlying hedged items.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 168 168 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK division UK and National Express Group PLC the Company both operate defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and maintains a small defined benefit scheme for National Express Services Limited.
These post-employment benefits have been combined into the Other category.
The UK, the Company and North America also operate or contribute into a number of defined contribution schemes.
On 11 October 2018, the Trustees of the Company defined benefit scheme completed a buy-in transaction whereby the assets of the scheme were invested in a bulk annuity policy with the insurer Rothesay Life, under which the benefits payable to defined benefit members became fully insured.
The insurance policy was purchased using the existing assets of the plan.
As the buy-in transaction has resulted in the defined benefit obligations being fully insured, the Company has no obligation to make any further payments into the scheme.
For the UK defined benefit scheme, in 2017 a three-year annual deficit repayment plan was agreed with the trustees of the West Midlands Integrated Transport Authority Pension Fund, which continues until March 2020 with an average contribution of 7.7m per annum.
The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only.
The assets of the defined benefit schemes are held separately from those of the Group and contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The Group expects to contribute 7.8m into its defined benefit pension plans in 2019.
The total pension cost charged to operating profit in the year for the Group was 10.3m 2017: 8.7m, of which 4.9m 2017: 3.9m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The defined benefit pension liability asset included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Company 14.9 43.2 Pension assets 14.9 43.2 UK 127.3 133.8 Other 4.4 3.9 Pension liabilities 131.7 137.7 Total 116.8 94.5 Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which relate to the UK and are detailed below.
The Company scheme has a low level of risk due to the buy-in policy, whereby the present value of the scheme liabilities is fully matched by the fair value of the insurance asset.
Investment risk The present values of scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if the return on scheme assets is below this yield, it will create a deficit.
The UK scheme holds a significant proportion of return-seeking assets equities and diversified growth funds which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term.
Interest risk A decrease in bond interest rates will increase scheme liabilities but this will be partially offset by an increase in the returns on the scheme assets.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the schemes obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The Group has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, which helps to offset this risk.
In addition, the UK scheme holds a small proportion of indexlinked bonds which will help to protect against this risk.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 169 169 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued Longevity risk The majority of the obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
The UK scheme includes a buy-in policy covering part of the pensioner members liabilities, which partly helps to mitigate longevity risk.
The Company scheme is fully covered by a buy-in policy.
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these have led to both increases in obligations: for example, reduced investment return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax, and decreases in obligations: for example, through the ability to use CPI inflation instead of RPI to set pension increase rates.
For the UK scheme the Group receives professional advice on the impact of legislative changes.
The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations for the principal schemes, and assumptions made, is as follows: UK Company 31 March 5 April Date of actuarial valuation 2016 2016 Rate of investment returns per annum 4.5% 0%-2.1% Increase in earnings per annum 2.3% % Scheme assets taken at market value 449.1m 114.8m Funding level 81% 97% The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2018 2017 UK Company UK Company Rate of increase in salaries 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.2% 3.2% 2.2% 3.2% Discount rate 2.8% 2.9% 2.5% 2.5% Inflation assumption RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% Inflation assumption CPI 2.2% 2.2% 2.2% 2.2% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 21.2 22.7 21.5 23.1 Future pensioners at 65 male 22.6 24.1 23.2 24.8 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.1 25.4 23.5 25.9 Future pensioners at 65 female 24.7 26.9 25.4 27.8 The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 170 170 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The Directors regard the assumptions around pensions in payment, discount rate, inflation and mortality to be the key assumptions in the IAS 19 valuation.
The following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of a reasonably possible change to these assumptions: UK Company UK Company 2018 2018 2017 2017 Increase decrease in the defined benefit obligation m m m m Effect of a 0.1% increase in pensions in payment 6.0 7.6 0.9 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 6.4 9.8 2.0 Effect of a 0.1% increase in inflation 6.7 8.4 1.6 Effect of a 0.1 year increase in mortality rates 1.3 2.2 0.3 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
Aside from the matching insurance contracts held in the UK and Company schemes, no allowance has been made for any change in assets that might arise under any of the scenarios set out above.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective Balance Sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
b Financial results for pension benefits The amounts charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 are set out in the following tables: UK Company Other Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 Group Income Statement m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 4.0 4.0 Past service cost 0.9 0.9 Net interest expense income 3.2 1.1 0.1 2.2 Total charge credit to Income Statement 7.2 0.2 0.1 7.1 In addition, during the year 0.5m 2017: 0.5m of administrative expenses were incurred.
The past service cost in the Company relates to Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation recognised in the year.
The net interest expense has been included within Finance Costs see note 9.
UK Company Total Other 2018 2018 2018 2018 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial gain during the period from obligations 33.8 7.3 0.2 41.3 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 30.0 35.6 65.6 Net actuarial loss 3.8 28.3 0.2 24.3 The Company actuarial loss of 35.6m includes 26.5m representing the difference between the costs of the insurance policy and the accounting value of the liabilities secured through the buy-in transaction described above.
In addition to the above actuarial movements, the Statement of Comprehensive Income also includes a 0.6m loss for investment advice that was incurred directly by the Company, primarily in relation to the buy-in transaction.
UK Company Other Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 Group Income Statement m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 4.3 4.3 Net interest expense income 3.1 1.2 0.2 2.1 Total charge credit to Income Statement 7.4 1.2 0.2 6.4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 171 171 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued Other UK Company Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial loss during the period from obligations 22.7 1.9 5.7 30.3 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 20.2 0.4 0.2 20.0 Net actuarial loss prior to transfers 2.5 2.3 5.5 10.3 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 3.7 3.7 Net actuarial loss 6.2 2.3 5.5 14.0 includes 6.0m actuarial loss in the NXET Trains Limited Section of the RPS prior to disposal.
The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: UK Company Other Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 As at 31 December 2018 m m m m Equities 63.0 1.8 64.8 Bonds and multi-asset credit 78.4 0.8 79.2 Insurance policy 220.2 83.7 303.9 Diversified growth fund 90.6 90.6 Other 0.8 14.9 0.1 15.8 Fair value of scheme assets 453.0 98.6 2.7 554.3 Present value of liabilities and defined benefit obligation 580.3 83.7 7.1 671.1 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 127.3 14.9 4.4 116.8 UK Company Other Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 As at 31 December 2017 m m m m Equities 101.6 1.8 103.4 Bonds 52.5 185.3 0.8 238.6 Insurance policy 237.7 237.7 Diversified growth fund 93.8 93.8 Other 0.6 51.3 0.2 50.5 Fair value of scheme assets 486.2 134.0 2.8 623.0 Present value of liabilities and defined benefit obligation 620.0 90.8 6.7 717.5 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 133.8 43.2 3.9 94.5 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated overleaf.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 668.4m 2017: 714.7m arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 2.7m 2017: 2.8m from unfunded plans.
Based on the terms and conditions of the Company scheme, and from consultation with independent advisers, the Group determined that an ultimate future economic benefit exists in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Therefore, in accordance with IFRIC 14, the closing defined benefit surplus of this scheme has been recognised.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 172 172 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit obligations is as follows: UK Company Other Total m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2018 620.0 90.8 6.7 717.5 Current service cost 4.0 4.0 Past service cost 0.9 0.9 Benefits paid 25.5 2.9 0.1 28.5 Contributions by employees 0.7 0.7 Finance charge 0.1 14.9 2.2 17.2 Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions 26.4 7.4 0.2 34.0 Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 8.5 2.2 10.7 Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 1.1 2.3 3.4 Foreign exchange 0.6 0.6 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2018 580.3 83.7 7.1 671.1 UK Company Other Total m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2017 658.1 89.7 6.8 754.6 Current service cost 4.3 4.3 Benefits paid 27.8 3.1 0.1 31.0 Contributions by employees 0.8 0.8 Finance charge 16.4 2.3 0.3 19.0 Actuarial loss gain from changes in financial assumptions 6.9 1.9 0.2 8.6 Actuarial loss arising from changes in demographics 11.5 0.1 11.4 Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 4.3 4.3 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 54.5 54.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2017 620.0 90.8 6.7 717.5 The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Company Other Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2018 486.2 134.0 2.8 623.0 Expected return on plan assets 11.7 3.3 15.0 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 30.0 35.6 65.6 Cash contributions employer 10.1 0.1 10.2 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5 Cash contributions employee 0.7 0.7 Benefits paid 25.5 2.9 0.1 28.5 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2018 453.0 98.6 2.7 554.3 UK Company Other Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2017 542.4 134.2 2.6 679.2 Expected return on plan assets 13.3 3.5 0.1 16.9 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 20.2 0.4 0.2 20.0 Cash contributions employer 8.2 0.1 8.3 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5 Cash contributions employee 0.8 0.8 Benefits paid 27.8 3.1 0.1 31.0 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 70.7 70.7 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2017 486.2 134.0 2.8 623.0 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 173 173 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m m UK Fair value of scheme assets 453.0 486.2 542.4 484.2 493.4 Present value of defined benefit obligation 580.3 620.0 658.1 529.4 544.0 Asset ceiling 12.8 15.2 Deficit in the scheme 127.3 133.8 128.5 60.4 50.6 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 1.1 4.3 1.3 3.2 4.5 Experience adjustments arising on assets 30.0 20.2 57.8 7.9 32.7 Company Fair value of scheme assets 98.6 134.0 134.2 105.1 101.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation 83.7 90.8 89.7 70.2 71.2 Surplus in the scheme 14.9 43.2 44.5 34.9 30.6 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 2.3 0.3 Experience adjustments arising on assets 35.6 0.4 28.1 2.2 22.6 Other Fair value of scheme assets 2.7 2.8 2.6 89.7 84.4 Present value of defined benefit obligation 7.1 6.7 6.8 90.4 89.6 Members share of deficit 13.6 13.3 Deficit surplus in the scheme 4.4 3.9 4.2 12.9 8.1 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 0.1 4.2 3.5 Experience adjustments arising on assets 0.2 0.3 1.1 3.1 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004 is a 153.1m loss 2017: 128.2m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 174 174 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 35 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Land and buildings 25.7 24.0 Public service vehicles 25.4 16.1 Rolling stock 16.8 13.1 Plant and equipment 5.2 2.0 73.1 55.2 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 57.6 49.0 Public service vehicles 52.5 24.9 Rolling stock 129.9 129.9 Plant and equipment 8.9 1.4 248.9 205.2 More than five years: Land and buildings 61.2 40.7 Public service vehicles 10.3 1.9 Rolling stock 294.3 300.9 Plant and equipment 2.4 368.2 343.5 690.2 603.9 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments is 13.8 years 2017: 4.7 years for land and buildings, 5.0 years 2017: 2.8 years for public service vehicles, 13.8 2017: 14.8 years for rolling stock and 5.0 years 2017: 1.7 years for other plant and equipment.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 175 175 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2018 2017 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 49.1 48.0 53.5 49.0 After one year but not more than five years 94.9 87.4 112.5 104.3 More than five years 8.4 7.2 20.5 19.8 Total minimum lease payments 152.4 142.6 186.5 173.1 Less future financing charges 9.8 13.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 142.6 142.6 173.1 173.1 Capital commitments 2018 2017 m m Contracted 62.6 32.7 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
Contingent liabilities Guarantees The Group has guaranteed credit facilities totalling 21.4m 2017: 24.7m of certain joint ventures.
Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 172.3m 2017: 148.3m, in Spain of 46.0m 2017: 41.9m, in Germany of 11.3m 2017: 6.3m and in the Middle East of 6.3m 2017: 5.9m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 118.2m 2017: 91.9m.
Tax Tax authorities in the markets in which we operate UK, Spain, Germany, USA, Canada and Morocco carry out tax audits from time to time.
As was detailed in note 10 d Tax provisions, the current ongoing tax audits relate to our Moroccan business.
The Directors are satisfied that, based on current knowledge, adequate tax provisions are held to cover any tax uncertainties.
The Group has tax provisions at 31 December 2018 of 7.9m 2017: 9.6m.
There are no material contingent liabilities relating to tax.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 176 176 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 36 Related party transactions Amount of Amounts due from Amounts due to transactions related parties related parties 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Joint ventures Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. 0.5 0.7 0.5 0.7 ALSA joint venture 0.2 0.2 Total joint ventures 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.9 Associates ALSA associates 4.7 0.9 2.3 1.4 1.0 1.0 Trade investments ALSA trade investments 6.1 5.3 0.1 0.2 0.9 0.9 Property transactions ALSA 5.5 3.8 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.4 Total other related parties 11.6 9.1 0.5 0.7 1.6 1.3 Total 16.8 10.7 3.5 3.0 2.6 2.3 A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a Non-Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of ALSA and are at appropriate market rates.
The details of the post-employment benefit plans operated for the benefit of employees of the Group are disclosed in note 34.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2018 2017 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 6.9 6.1 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 177 177 37 Cash flow statement a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2018 2017 Total operations m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 177.7 156.4 Loss before tax from discontinued operations note 11 1.7 1.5 Total profit before tax 176.0 154.9 Net finance costs 38.6 38.0 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 0.9 3.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 133.8 135.6 Intangible asset amortisation 47.0 41.6 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 0.5 1.0 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.4 5.4 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 8.3 Share-based payments 6.4 5.3 Increase in inventories 1.4 0.5 Increase in receivables 57.7 52.7 Increase in payables 86.3 62.5 Decrease in provisions 49.7 22.8 Cash generated from operations 361.2 359.0 b Analysis of changes in net debt At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2018 Cash flow and disposals differences movements 2018 m m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank and other loans 115.6 93.0 1.7 14.7 0.6 9.0 Bonds 851.9 2.6 2.1 852.4 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 10.3 3.7 6.6 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 1.5 20.0 28.3 6.8 Cross currency swaps 1.0 7.6 8.8 0.2 Finance lease obligations 173.1 49.9 6.7 7.3 5.4 142.6 Other debt payable 73.6 0.8 0.7 73.7 Total components of financing activities 1,201.4 170.5 8.4 33.1 5.7 1,078.1 Cash 100.7 50.7 22.7 1.9 74.6 Overnight deposits 4.9 3.0 1.9 Other short-term deposits 208.7 167.5 41.2 Cash and cash equivalents 314.3 221.2 22.7 1.9 117.7 Other debt receivables 0.7 1.4 2.1 Remove: Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 1.5 20.0 28.3 6.8 1 Net debt 887.9 69.3 14.3 2.9 5.7 951.5 1 Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings.
For the purpose of calculating the Groups financial covenants, net debt is retranslated using the average exchanges rates for the year to 31 December 2018, resulting in adjusted net debt of 939.8m 2017: 892.6m.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 178 178 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 37 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt continued Short-term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Borrowings include non-current interest-bearing borrowings of 1,029.3m 2017: 1,058.0m as disclosed in note 28.
Other non-cash movements in net debt include finance lease additions of 5.4m 2017: 60.4m and a 0.3m net reduction from the amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees 2017: 1.2m.
A 3.7m decrease to the fair value of the hedging derivatives is offset by opposite movements in the fair value of the related hedged borrowings.
This comprises a 3.0m fair value increase in bonds and a 0.7m fair value increase in other debt payable.
At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2017 Cash flow and disposals differences movements 2017 m m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank and other loans 13.3 98.7 3.7 0.8 0.7 115.6 Bonds 983.2 126.8 1.9 2.6 851.9 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 14.4 4.1 10.3 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 3.9 5.7 11.1 1.5 Cross currency swaps 11.1 10.1 1.0 Finance lease obligations 159.5 34.4 0.6 13.0 60.4 173.1 Other debt payable 72.4 0.5 2.8 1.1 73.6 Total components of financing activities 1,206.8 57.3 4.3 13.9 61.5 1,201.4 Cash 72.3 38.7 9.1 1.2 100.7 Overnight deposits 3.5 1.4 4.9 Other short-term deposits 248.6 39.9 208.7 Cash and cash equivalents 324.4 0.2 9.1 1.2 314.3 Other debt receivables 0.5 0.2 0.7 Remove: Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 3.9 5.7 11.1 1.5 1 Net debt 878.0 63.4 13.4 1.6 61.5 887.9 1 Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings.
c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2018 2017 m m Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 198.5 8.9 Cash inflow outflow from movement in other debt receivables 1.4 0.2 Cash inflow outflow from movement in debt and finance leases 142.1 58.7 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 55.0 50.0 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 8.6 59.9 Movement in net debt in the year 63.6 9.9 Opening net debt 887.9 878.0 Net debt 951.5 887.9 38 Post Balance Sheet events In January 2019, the Group entered into a 500 million bridging-to-bond facility in anticipation of the refinancing of the Groups 250 million floating rate note maturing in May 2020 and 225 million bond maturing in June 2020.
The facility is for an initial period of 18 months and includes committed options to extend the maturity date until January 2022.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 179 179 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and companies in which National Express Group PLC has a controlling interest as at 31 December 2018 is shown below, along with the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned.
% equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest United Kingdom United Kingdom continued Airlinks The Airport Coach Company Limited, National National Express Operations Stansted Limited, Heathrow Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD Coach Centre, Sipson Road, West Drayton, Middlesex, 100 UB7 0HN 100 Altram LRT Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Operations Limited, Heathrow Coach Centre, Sipson Road, West Drayton, Middlesex, UB7 0HN 100 Brooke Management Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD National Express Petermann UK Limited 07855188, 100 National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, Central Trains Limited, National Express House, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Rail Replacement Limited, National Express E Clarke & Son Coaches Limited, National Express House, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Services Limited, National Express House, Eurolines UK Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Spanish Holdings Limited, National Express Helium Miracle 236 Limited, National Express House, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Trains Limited, National Express House, Mill Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited, National Express Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Transport Holdings Limited 04338163, London Eastern Railway Limited, National Express House, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 40 5 6DD 100 Maintrain Limited, National Express House, National Express UK Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Midland Main Line Limited, National Express House, NE Canada Limited 08596333, National Express House, Mill Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express East Anglia Trains Limited, National Express NE Durham UK Limited 08270480, National Express House, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express European Holdings Limited 05652775, NE Europe Finance Limited 07876047, National Express National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 B5 6DD 100 NE No.
1 Ltd, National Express House, National Express Finance Company Limited, National Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NE No.
2 Ltd, National Express House, National Express Group Holdings Limited 04339932, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NE No.
3 Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Holdings Limited 02156473, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD NE Trains South Limited, National Express House, 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Intermediate Holdings Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NX Bahrain Bus Company Plc, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express International Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD NX Crossrail Limited, National Express House, 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NX Services Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Manchester Metrolink Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 NXEA Trains Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express North America Holdings Limited 07855182, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, NXEC Trains Limited, National Express House, Birmingham, B5 6DD Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 180 180 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest United Kingdom continued United Kingdom continued NXSR Trains Limited, National Express House, WM Ventures Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 100 PTI Website Limited, 50 Eastbourne Terrace, Woods Coaches Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Paddington, London, W2 6LG 20 Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Scotrail Railways Limited, National Express House, Woods Reisen Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 100 Silverlink Train Services Limited, National Express House, Mill Canada Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Canada Holdings Ltd. 155 University Avenue, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Speedlink Airport Services Limited, National Express House, National Express Canada Transit Ltd. 155 University Avenue, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Stewarts Coach Group Limited, National Express House, Mill Stock Transportation Ltd. 155 University Avenue, Suite 700, Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Stewarts Coaches Limited, National Express House, Mill US Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 The Provider Enterprises, Inc. 9 Capitol Street, Concord, Taybus Holdings Limited, 44 48 East Dock Street, Dundee, NH 03301 100 DD1 3JS 100 A1A Transportation, Inc. 1200 Pine Island Road, Plantation, Tayside Public Transport Co. Limited, FL 33324 100 44 48 East Dock Street, Dundee, DD1 3JS 100 Aristocrat Limousine and Bus, Inc. 820 Bear Tavern Road, The Kings Ferry Limited, National Express House, West Trenton, NJ 08628 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 A&S Transportation Incorporated, 1200 Pine Island Road, Travel Birmingham Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, Plantation, FL 33324 100 B9 4BZ 100 Atlantic & Southern Transportation, 289 Culver Street, Travel Coventry Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, Lawrenceville, GA 30046: 3867 Plaza Tower Drive, Baton B9 4BZ 100 Rouge, LA 70816: 50 Market Street, Suite 800, Indianapolis, Travel Dundee Limited, 44 48 East Dock Street, IN 46204 100 Dundee, DD1 3JS 100 Beck Bus Transportation Corp. 208 S. LaSalle Street, Travel Merryhill Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, B9 Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 4BZ 100 Beck Bus Transportation III, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Travel West Midlands Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Beck Bus Transportation IV, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Travel WM Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Beck Bus Transportation, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Travel Yourbus Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, B9 Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 4BZ 100 Bus Co. Inc. 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County West Anglia Great Northern Railway Limited, National of Cook, IL 60604 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Caravan Leasing Vehicles LLC, 8020 Excelsior Drive, Suite West Midlands Transport Information Services Limited, 200, Madison, WI 53717 100 Unit 8 Pendeford Place, pendeford Business Park, nd Carrier Management Corporation, 600 N. 2 Street, Suite Wobaston Road, Wolverhampton, WV9 5HD 20 401, Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 West Midlands Travel Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Chicagoland Coach Lines LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, WM Card Systems Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ nd 100 Community Transportation, Inc. 600 N. 2 Street, WM Property Holdings Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Suite 401, Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Cook-DuPage Transportation Company, Inc. 208 S. LaSalle WM Travel Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Street, Chicago, IL 60604 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 181 181 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest US continued US continued Diamond Transportation Services, Inc. 4701 Cox Road, Glen New Dawn Transit LLC, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New 100 York, 10011 Allen, County of Henrico, VA 23060 100 Nu Express LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Durham D&M LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust 100 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Petermann Acquisition Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Durham Holding I, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Petermann Acquisition Corporation, 1209 Orange Street, 1120 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, Durham Holding II, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation fide 19801-1120 100 Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Petermann Holding Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, 1120 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Durham School Services, L. P. 1209 Orange Street, Petermann Ltd. 4400 Easton Commons Way, Columbus, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, 100 County of Franklin, OH 43219 fide 19801-1120 100 Petermann Northeast, LLC, 4400 Easton Commons Way, Ecolane USA, Inc. 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Columbus, County of Franklin, OH 43219 100 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Petermann Northwest, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation nd Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Greensburg Yellow Cab Co. 600 N. 2 Street, Suite 401, 1120 100 Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 Petermann Partners, Inc. 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Haid Acquisitions LLC, 1242 Garden Circle, Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Wyoming, OH 45215 100 1120 100 Petermann Southwest, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation JNC Leasing, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 1120 100 Kiessling Transit, Inc. 194 Dedham Street, Nortfolk, MA Petermann STS, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust 02056 100 100 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 Meda-Care Vans of Waukesha, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. Petermann STSA, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Suite 1, Madison, WI 53703 100 1120 100 MF Petermann Investment Corporation, 1209 Orange Street, PM2 Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 fide 19801-1120 100 Quality Bus Service, LLC.
111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York, 10011 100 Monroe School Transportation, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New Queen City Transportation, LLC, 1242 Garden York, NY 10011 100 Circle, Wyoming, OH 45215 100 MV Student Transportation, Inc. 40 West Lawrence, Suite A, Rainbow Management Service, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New Helena, Montana 59601 100 York, New York, 10011 100 National Express Acquisition Corporation, 1209 Orange Safeway Training and Transportation Services, Inc. Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, 9 Capitol Street, Concord, NH 03301 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Septran, Inc. 150 West Market Street, Suite 800, Indianapolis, IN 46204 100 National Express Durham Holding Corporation, 1209 Orange Smith Bus Service, Inc. 2405 York Road, Ste.
201, Lutherville Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Timonium, MD 21093-2264 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Suburban Paratransit Services, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New National Express Leasing Company LLC, 1209 Orange York, New York, 10011 100 Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Trans Express, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York, 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 10011 National Express LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Transit Express, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. Suite 1, Madison, WI Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 100 53703 National Express Transit Corporation, 1209 Orange Street, Transit Express Services, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. Suite 1, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, Madison, WI 53703 100 fide 19801-1120 100 Trinity, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Plymouth, National Express Transit Services Corporation, 1209 Orange MI 48170-4675 100 Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Trinity Cars, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 182 182 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest Portugal US continued Trinity Coach LLC, 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Alsa Metropolitano do Porto, Lda, Avenida das Foras 100 Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 Armadas, N 125, 12 Lisboa 100 Trinity Management Services Co. LLC, 4624 13th St. Tiac Viagens e Turismo Lda, Rua fide Pedro Numes, 100 Wyandotte, MI 48192 39, Lisboa 100 Trinity Student Delivery LLC, 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 Slovakia TWB Transport, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County Efc Spol s. r. o. Teheln 23 83103, Bratislava of Cook, IL 60604 100 Nov Mesto 80 White Plains Bus Co. Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, Spain New York, 10011 100 Whitetail Bid Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Alianza Bus, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 100 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 AlmeriaMurcia Bus, S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 100 Wise Coaches, Inc. 1312 Central Avenue, Hermitage, TN Alsa Atlntica, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 37076 100 Andorra Alsa Ferrocarril, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Estaci 2017, S. A. Carrer fide la Cria, s n, Andorra la Vella 11 Alsa Granada Airport S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 100 Estaci dAutobusos dAndorra, Av.
fide Tarragona, 42, AD500 Alsa Grupo Intercontinental, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid Andorra la Vella 100 28037 100 Transports Dels Pirineus, Av.
fide Tarragona, 42, AD500 Andorra la Vella 100 Alsa Grupo, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 France Alsa Internacional, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Iberolines, 41 Boulevard Poniatowski, 75012, Paris 46 Alsa Internacional, S. L. U. y Otros U. T. E. C Alcal, 478, SARL Chamexpress.
com, 498 Avenue des Algapes, 74310 Madrid 28027 100 Les Houches 100 Alsa Metropolitana, S. A. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Morocco Alsa Rail, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Alsa City Agadir S. A.
153, Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Marrakech 100 Aplic.
Integrales Para el Transporte, S. A. Pol.
San Alsa City Sightseeing Maroc, Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech Mateo, Ctra Coll D En Rabassa, Palma fide Mallorca 07002 100 Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Aragonesa fide Estacion fide Autobuses, S. A. Urbanizacin Marrakech 100 Plaza fide Roma, F-1, Zaragoza 23 Alsa City Tour S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Argabus, S. A.
C Real 116 Arganda del Rey Madrid 100 Marrakech 95 Argantours, S. A.
C Real 116 Arganda del Rey Madrid 100 Alsa Education a la Scurit Routire S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Ferme Asturies Berlinas fide Luxu, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19- 2 Ahzib Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech 98 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 o Alsa Khouribga S. A. N 22 Rue Meknes Hay Haboub, Autedia, S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 50 Khouribga 100 Autobuses Urbanos fide Arganda, S. A. Avda.
37 Rue Omar Ibn Khettab, Inmeuble Mediterrneao 50 - Madrid 100 Maspalomas 2, Tanger 100 Autobuses Urbanos fide Bilbao, S. A.
C Tellaetxebidea 3, Centre fide Formation Techn.
Transport S. A. R. L. Bilbao 75 Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Autobuses Urbanos fide Len, S. A. U. Pol.
Vilecha Oeste, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech 99 Len 24192 100 Groupe Alsa Transport S. A. Rue Tehran, s n, Quartier Autocares CastillaLen, S. A. U. Estacin fide Autobuses, Industriel, Agadir MR-80000 100 Av Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 100 Immeubles, Vehicules Accesoires Maroc S. A. R. L. 153, Autocares Discrecionales del Norte, S. L. U. Alameda fide Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Marrakech 80 Urquijo, n o 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Interprovincial Maroc S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Automviles Luarca, S. A. U. Magnus Blikstad 2, Gijn 33207 100 Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech Automviles Sigras Carral, S. A. Ctra.
El Burgo-Los Pelamios 100 s n Culleredo A Corua 100 Transport fide Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc S. A.
153, Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Marrakech 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 183 183 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest Spain continued Spain continued Autos Cal Pita, S. A. Ctra.
El Burgo-Los Pelamios s n Estacin Autobuses fide Ponferrada, S. A. Ctra fide Asturias, Culleredo A Corua Ponferrada 97 49 Estacin Central fide Autobuses fide Zaragoza, S. A.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Avda fide Navarra, 80 Estacin Central fide Autobuses, Baleares Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19- 2 Izquierda, Zaragoza 50011 19 Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Siero, S. L. C Ramn y Cajal, Pola Berlinas fide Asturias, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, fide Siero 50 Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses Aguilar fide Campoo, S. L. Avda fide Berlinas fide Extremadura, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Ronda 52 Bis, Aguilar fide Campoo Palencia 67 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses Chamartin, S. A. P fide la Castellana, Berlinas Calecar, S. L. U. Avenida Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, 216, Madrid 49 s n Estacin fide Autobuses, Len 24009 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Aranda fide Duero, S. L. Berlinas fide Canarias, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Avda Valladolid, Aranda fide Duero Burgos 43 Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Astorga, S. L. Avda Las Murallas, Berlinas fide Toledo, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, n 52, Astorga-Len 24700 79 Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Aviles S. L. C Los Telares Berlinas Tibus, S. L. U, C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Estacin fide Autobuses Aviles 33400 100 Berlinas VTC fide Cantabria, S. L. U. Avenida fide Candina, Estacin fide Autobuses fide Benavente, S. L. Avda Primo fide n 35, Santander 39011 100 Rivera, Benaventa 23 Buses fide Palencia, S. L. C Campaneros, 4, 1o Dcha, Estacin fide Autobuses fide Len, S. A. Estacin fide Autobuses, Palencia 34003 100 Avda Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 89 Bus Metropolitano fide Granada, S. L. Avenida Juan Pablo II, Estacin fide Autobuses fide Plasencia, S. A.
C Tornavacas, 33 Estacin fide Autobuses, Granada 18013 50 2, Plasencia 52 Busturialdea Lea Artibai Bus, S. A. Centro fide Transportes Estacin fide Autobuses fide Ribadeo, S. L. Avda Rosala fide fide Vizcaya, Barrio el Juncal, Naves 3 y 4 Valle fide TrpagaCastro, Ribadeo 50 Trapagrn, Vizcaya 48510 65 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Vitoria, S. L. C Los Herran, Canary Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, 50 Estacin fide Autobuses, Alava Vitoria 32 Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Lineas Regulares, S. L. Plaza fide las Estacones, Catalua Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Santander Cantabria 46 Madrid 28001 100 Estacines Terminales fide Autobuses, S. A. Avda Menndez Center Bus, S. L. Paseo fide Moret, 7, Madrid 90 Pidal, n 13 Estaccin fide Autobuses, Valencia 46009 79 Cetralsa Formacin, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid o o Euska Alsa, S. L. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, 1 -Dcha.
del Tranva Elctrico fide Aviles, S. A. Avda Conde fide Extremadura Business Limousines, S. L. C Jorge Juan, Guadalhorce 123, Aviles 33400 87 19-2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Compaia Navarra fide Autobuses, S. A.
C Yanguas y  Bus, S. A. Centro fide Transportes fide Miranda, 2 Estacin fide Autobuses, Pamplona 50 Vizcaya, Barrio el Juncal, Naves 3 y 4 Valle fide TrpagaCompostelana, S. A. U. Plaza San Cayetano, s n. Estacin Trapagrn, Vizcaya 48510 65 Autobuses Taq.
10, Santiago fide Compostela La Corua 100 Gal Bus, S. L. Ctra, El Burgo-Los Pelamios s n Culleredo A Concesionario Estacin Autobuses Logroo, S. A. Avda fide Corua 100 Espaa, 1, LogrooLa Rioja 21 G. S. Carretera, Plaza fide la Constitucin, Estacin fide Dainco, S. A. U. Avda Filiberto Villalobos, n 71, Salamanca 50 Autobuses, 2 Planta, Oficina 26, Lugo 25 Ebrobus, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 General Tcnica Industrial, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, 100 Madrid 28037 100 Eme Asociation Business, S. A. Avda.
del Mediterrneao 50 - Gorbea Representaciones, S. L. Alameda fide Urquijo, n o 85, Madrid 100 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Estacin Autobuses fide Cartagena, S. A. Avda Trovero Marn.
N 3, Estacin Autobuses, Cartagena 30202 54 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Financial Statements 184 184 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 For the year ended 31 December 2018 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest Spain continued Spain continued Grupo Enatcar, S. A.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 Servicios Auxiliares del Transporte C. B.
C Mendez lvaro 100 Estacin fide Autobuses, Madrid 100 Ibero-Euro Sur, S. L. C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 20 Servicios El Temple, S. L. Ctra.
El Burgo-Los Pelamios s n Inforcyl, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Culleredo A Corua 100 Informtica, Comunicaciones y Logstica, S. L. U. Alameda fide Servicios Empresariales Especiales, S. L. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, no 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Intercambiadores Europeos, S. L. C Miguel Fleta, 4, Servicios Generales fide Automocin, S. A. U. Alameda fide Madrid 28037 60 Urquijo, no 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 International Business Limousines, S. A. U. Pol.
C Limite, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 Setra Ventas y Servicios, S. A. U. Pol.
Interurbana fide Autocares, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, C Limite, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 Madrid 28037 100 Sociedad Annima Unipersonal Alsina Graells fide A. T. Irubus, S. A. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Jimenez Lopera, S. A. U. Pol.
C Limite, Tcnicas en Vehculos Automviles, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 Madrid 28027 100 Julia Travel S. A. Automoviles Luarca S. A. U. Transportes Tcnologias Formativas en Simuladores, S. L. Newton, Bacoma S. A. U. U. T. E. C Puerto Used, 20, Madrid 50 6, Edificio 6, Nave, 6.
P, Legans, Madrid 28914 50 Julia Travel y Automoviles Luarca Sa Ute, Avda Sancho El Terminal fide Autobuses fide Garellano, S. L. Alameda fide Sabio, 31, Donostia 50 Mazarredo, 21, Bilbao 41 La Tafallesa, S. A. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona Estacin fide Autobuses, Pamplona 50 08013 60 La Unin Alavesa, S. L. C Los Herran, 50 Tibus Berlines fide Luxe, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Estacin fide Autobuses, Alava Vitoria 50 Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 La Unin fide Benisa, S. A.
C Comunicaciones, 10 Tibus Business Cars, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide P. fide Babel, Alicante 03008 98 Autobuses Barcelona, 08013 100 Lineas Europeas fide Autobuses, S. A.
C Guillem fide Castro, Tibus Business Limousines, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, 77, Valencia 43 Madrid 28027 100 Los Abades fide la Gineta, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid Tibus Luxury Services, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide 28027 100 Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Mai Tours, S. L. U. Avenida fide la Hispanidad OParking P12, Transporte Colectivos, S. A. U. Gran Va fide D. Ingacio fide Barajas, Madrid 100 Haro, 81, Bilbao 100 Movelia Tecnologias, S. L. C Santa Leonor, 65 Avaln Transportes Accesibles Peninsulares, S. L. C Pepe Cosmen, Parque Empresarial, Edificio A, Madrid 78 Estacin fide Autobuses, Oviedo 33001 100 Mundaka Consultoria, S. L. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, no 85, Transportes Adaptados Andaluces, S. A. U. Plaza Coca 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Piera, s n Estacin fide Autobuses, Jan 100 NEX Continental Holdings, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Transportes Adaptados Regionales, S. L. U. Estacin fide Madrid 28037 100 Autobuses, Av Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 100 NX Middle East, S. L. U.
C Inglaterra, 20-22, Palencia 34004 100 Transportes Adaptados Cntabros, S. A. Avda Candina, Proyectos Unificados, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 35-37, Santander 39011 98 28037 100 Transportes Bacoma, S. A. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Rapid Aeroport, S. A. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Transportes fide Viajeros fide Aragn, S. A. Avda fide Navarra, Representaciones Mecnica, S. A. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, 80 Estacin Central fide Autobuses, Zaragoza 50011 59 n o 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Transportes Santo Domingo, S. L. U.
C Musico Gustavo Freire, 1 -1 Dcha, N 2 Getafe Madrid 100 Lugo 27001 28 Transportes Terrestres Cantabros, S. A. Avda Candina, Rutas del Cantbrico, S. L. Alameda fide Urquijo, no 85, 35-37, Santander 39011 93 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 95 Transportes Unidos fide Asturias, S. L. Pol.
Espirtu Santo, Semarvi, C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 34 Oviedo 33010 100 Serviareas 2000, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 185 185 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation Name and country of incorporation interest interest Spain continued Bahrain Transportes Unidos, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. Garage 1087, Madrid 28037 Road 4025, Isa Town 840, Southern Governorate, Kingdom 100 of Bahrain 50 Transportes Urbanos fide Cantabria, S. L. U. Avda Candina, 35-37, Santander 39011 100 Czech Republic Transportes Urbanos fide Cartagena, S. A. Paraje fide la National Express Cz s. r. o. in liquidation, Seifertova 327 85, Asomada, Cartagena Murcia 97 130 00 Praha, Zizkov, Czech Republic 100 Tranva fide Velez, S. A. U. Avda Juan Carlos I, s n. Ronda del Finland 100 Ingeniero, Vlez Mlaga Mlaga Ecolane Finland Oy, Metsanneidonkuja 4, Espoo, 02130 100 Transportes Urbanos fide Guadalajara, S. L. Polgono Germany Industrial del Henares, Calle Livorno, 55, Marchamalo, National Express Germany GmbH, Trakehner Strasse 7-9, Guadalajara 19180 100 60487 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 95 Tranvas Metropolitanas fide Granada, S. A. U. Avenida fide National Express Holding GmbH, Vogelsanger Weg 38, Cdiz, nmero 70, 1-B, Granada 100 40470 Dsseldorf, Germany 100 o o Tury Express, S. A. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, 1 -Dcha.
National Express Rail GmbH, Maximinenstrasse 6, 50668 BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Cologne, Germany 100 Ute Catamaranes Bahia Cadiz, Avda Jos Len fide Carranza, Sddeutsche Regionalbahn GmbH, Vogelsanger Weg 38, n 20, Cdiz 23 40470 Dsseldorf, Germany 100 Ute Ea Cordoba, Glorieta fide las Tres Culturas, Crdoba 50 Netherlands Ute Extremadura, C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 st National Express Holdings LLC BV, Dr Willem Dreesweg 2, 1 Ute Guadalajara, C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Fl.
South Wing, 1185 VB Amstelveen, The Netherlands 100 Ute Mundiplan, C Ruiz Perell, 15, Madrid 17 st Texan Partner BV, Dr Willem Dreesweg 2, 1 Fl.
South Wing, Ute Murcia City Tour, Magnus Blikstad 2, Gijn 33207 50 1185 VB Amstelveen, The Netherlands 100 Ute Ea Alicante, Muelle fide Poniente, Alicante 50 These subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act Viajes ALSA, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S479A of the Act.
Outstanding liabilities of the exempt companies at the Balance Sheet date are o Viajes Por Carretera, S. A. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, guaranteed pursuant to Sections 479A-C of the Act.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Voramar el Gaucho S. L. U.
S Hort den Serral San Agustn San Josep fide sa Talaia, Illes Balears 100 Switzerland AlpyBus S. A. R. L. 8 Chemin fide Morglas, 1214, Genve 100 Eggmann Frey, Rue du Mont Blanc 14, 1201, Genve 100 GVA Transfers.
com S. A. R. L. 8 Chemin fide Morglas, 1214, Genve 100 Linien Abfertigung GmbH, Rue du Mont Blanc 14, 1201, Genve 80 Odier Excursions, S. A. Chemin Des Aulx 9 Plan Les Ouates - Switzerland 100 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
