Additional information 202 Shareholder Information Ordinary shares e-Communication Annual Dividend Confirmation The Companys ordinary shares, each of National Express encourages shareholders The Company issues Annual Dividend nominal value 5 pence, are traded on the to receive communications from the Confirmations ADC to private main market for listed securities on the Company electronically as this will enable shareholders.
An ADC in respect of London Stock Exchange LON:NEX.
you to receive them more quickly and dividends paid by the Company during securely.
It also allows the Company to the tax year 2018 19 has been issued Company website: communicate in a more environmentally at the same time as this report.
com friendly and cost-effective manner.
The Company website contains information Share dealing service To register for this service, you should about the Company, including results Equiniti provides both existing and go to www.
announcements and presentations, annual prospective UK shareholders with an easy reports, AGM notices and other similar Payment of dividends to UK to access and simple to use share dealing corporate communication and shareholder resident shareholders facility for buying and selling shares in materials which are available to view and Shareholders whose dividends are National Express Group PLC by telephone, download.
Information can also be found currently sent to their registered address online or post.
The telephone and online there about the latest National Express may wish to consider having their dividends dealing service allows shareholders to share price and dividends, news about the paid directly into their personal bank or trade real-time at a known price that Group and its operations, and details and building society account.
This has a will be given to them at the time they links to further information.
number of advantages, including the give their instruction.
crediting of cleared funds on the actual Registrar: Equiniti For telephone dealing, call 0345 603 7037 dividend payment date.
If you would like For assistance and enquiries relating to the between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday your future dividends paid in this way, you administration of shareholdings in National to Friday excluding public holidays in should contact the Registrar or complete Express Group PLC, such as lost share England and Wales.
Calls are charged at a mandate instruction available at certificates, dividend payments or a the standard geographic rate and will vary www.
co. uk and return it to change of address, please contact the by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be the Registrar.
Under this arrangement, Companys Registrar: charged at the applicable international rate.
dividend confirmations are still sent to For online dealing, log on to your registered address.
For postal Aspect House Payment of dividends to non-UK dealing, call 0371 384 2248 for full details Spencer Road resident shareholders and a dealing instruction form.
Existing Lancing Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to shareholders will need to provide the West Sussex arrive by post, shareholders can request account shareholder reference number BN99 6DA that their dividends be paid directly to a shown on their share certificate.
This is a Telephone from UK: Other brokers, banks and building service which the Registrar can arrange in 0371 384 2152 societies also offer similar share over 30 different countries worldwide, and dealing facilities.
in local currencies, and it normally costs Telephone from overseas: less than paying in a sterling cheque.
44 0 121 415 7047 For more information, you should contact the Registrar on 44 0 121 415 7049 or Textel for the hard of hearing : download an application form online at 0371 384 2255 www.
Alternatively, you If you are registered for online shareholder can contact the Registrar at the address communications, you can contact the given above.
Registrar and access details of your shareholdings electronically via www.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 203 ShareGift Unsolicited mail ensure you get the correct name of the ShareGift is an independent charity share The Company is legally obliged to make individual and firm donation scheme administered by the Orr its share register available on request, if you feel uncomfortable with the call Mackintosh Foundation registered charity subject to a proper purpose test, to or the calls persist, simply hang up number 1052686.
Those shareholders who other organisations and this may result check that the individual and or firm hold only a small number of shares, the in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
appear on the Financial Conduct value of which makes it uneconomic to sell To limit the receipt of such unsolicited Authority FCA Register to ensure them, can donate the shares to ShareGift mail, contact: they are authorised at who will sell them and donate the proceeds https: register.
uk MPS Complaint Department to a wide range of charities.
For further use the details on the FCA Register The Mailing Preference Service information, contact: to contact the firm, if you want to call DMA House them back ShareGift 70 Margaret Street call the FCA Consumer Helpline 0800 PO Box 72253 London 111 6768 if there are no contact details London W1W 8SS for the firm on the Register or you are SW1P 9LQ told they are out of date Telephone: 0207 291 3310 if you are approached by an Telephone: 020 7930 3737 Website: www.
uk unauthorised individual or firm, you Email: help@sharegift.
org should inform the FCA via its website Shareholder security Website: www.
org if you do buy or sell shares from an Share fraud includes scams where unauthorised individual or firm, you may General Data Protection Regulation investors receive unsolicited calls or not have access to the Financial GDPR correspondence concerning investment Ombudsman Service of the Financial On 25 May 2018, the General Data matters from organisations or persons Services Compensation Scheme Protection Regulation came into force claiming or implying that they have some if you have already paid money to share which gives individuals improved clarity connection with the Company.
These are fraudsters you should contact Action and rights over personal data.
The Company typically from purported brokers who offer Fraud on 0300 123 2040. has updated its Shareholder Privacy Notice to buy shares at a price often far in excess to make it easier to understand how of their market value.
These operations REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be National Express uses and protects are commonly known as boiler rooms.
A copy of the Shareholders are advised to be very Shareholder Privacy Notice can be found wary of any offers of unsolicited advice, at www.
com discounted shares, premium prices for investors shareholder-centre shareholdershares they own or free reports into the privacy-notice.
If you receive any such unsolicited calls, correspondence or Unclaimed Assets Register investment advice: The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR programme which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information, contact: Telephone: 0333 000 0182 Email: uarenquiries@uk.
co. uk National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
