Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 14 Directors authority to allot shares IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
That: If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you a. the directors be authorised to allot equity securities as are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant 2006 Act in the Company: or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. i. in accordance with article 7 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, up to a maximum If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT plc nominal amount of 4,700,000 as reduced by any NEXT and or the Company shares, please send this equity securities allotted under paragraph a ii document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, below : and as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the ii.
up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,500,000 sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser as reduced by any equity securities allotted under or transferee.
paragraph a i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 b ii of Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of NEXT the Articles : will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW on Thursday 17 May 2018 at 9.30 am at b. in accordance with article 7 of the Articles this authority which the following resolutions will be proposed, resolutions 1 to shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the 14 as Ordinary Resolutions and 15 to 19 as Special Resolutions.
Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 17 August 2019: and Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 56 to 58 and in the Appendix to c. all previous unutilised authorities under Section 551 of the this Notice.
Biographies of the directors are shown on pages 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that 54 and 55 of the Annual Report.
the same are exercisable pursuant to Section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the to the date of this resolution which would or might require directors and auditor for the year ended 27 January 2018. shares to be allotted on or after that date.
2 To approve the Remuneration Report excluding the 15 General disapplication of pre-emption rights Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 88 to 93 for the year ended 27 January 2018.
That, subject to resolution 14 being passed: 3 To declare a final dividend of 105p per share in respect of the a. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles, the directors year ended 27 January 2018. be given power to allot equity securities for cash: 4 To re-elect Jonathan Bewes as a director.
b. the power under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 b 5 To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a director.
ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of 6 To re-elect Amanda James as a director.
equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 717,000 representing 5% of the issued 7 To elect Richard Papp as a director.
ordinary share capital: 8 To re-elect Michael Roney as a director.
c. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this authority 9 To re-elect Francis Salway as a director.
shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 10 To re-elect Jane Shields as a director.
at the close of business on 17 August 2019: and 11 To re-elect Dame Dianne Thompson as a director.
d. all previous unutilised authorities under Sections 570 and 12 To re-elect Lord Wolfson as a director.
573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to the extent that they are exercisable by reason of any offer or 13 To re-appoint  LLP as auditor of agreement made prior to the date of this new resolution the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the 2019 which would or might require shares to be allotted on or AGM of the Company and to authorise the directors to set after that date.
154 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 16 Additional disapplication of pre-emption rights d. this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution That, subject to resolutions 14 and 15 being passed: or, if earlier, at the close of business 17 August 2019: a. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles, the directors e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to be given the power to allot additional equity securities purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby for cash: conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of b. the power under paragraph a above other than in such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 b ii shares in pursuance of any such contract: and of the Articles shall be: f. all existing authorities for the Company to make market i. limited to the allotment of equity securities having a purchases of its own ordinary shares are revoked, except nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 717,000 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital: in relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or and contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and which has or have not yet been executed.
used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the 18 Off-market purchases of own shares original transaction a transaction which the directors That, in accordance with Section 694 of the 2006 Act, determine to be an acquisition or other capital the proposed programme agreements to be entered investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement into between the Company and any of Goldman Sachs of Principles on Disapplying Pre-emption Rights most International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to plc and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this the date of this notice: meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are c. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this authority approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, trades which may be effected or made from time to time at the close of business on 17 August 2019: and under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the offd.
other than in respect of authorities granted pursuant to market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of resolution 15, all previous unutilised authorities under 10 pence each, as more fully described in the appendix on Sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have pages 156 to 157 of this Notice the authority conferred by effect save to the extent that they are exercisable by this special resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if of this new resolution which would or might require shares earlier, at the close of business on 17 August 2019, except in to be allotted on or after that date.
relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority 17 On-market purchase of own shares and which might be completed wholly or partly after such That in accordance with the 2006 Act, the Company be expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this granted general and unconditional authority to make market authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company purchases as defined in Section 693 of the 2006 Act of any may purchase under the general authority granted under of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner resolution 17 above.
as the directors may determine provided that: 19 Notice of general meetings a. the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 21,521,000 ordinary shares of 10p each That, in accordance with the Articles, a general meeting and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear outstanding at the date of the AGM, such limit to be days notice.
reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 18 below: By order of the Board b. the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary share: c. the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount not more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for Seonna Anderson the five business days immediately preceding the date of Company Secretary purchase and ii an amount equal to the higher of the Registered Office: Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share of the Company and the highest current independent bid 16 April 2018 for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: 155 Notice of Meeting The terms of a CFT will be agreed between the Company and Appendix the Bank before it is entered into.
The Company is committed to purchase shares under a CFT on the day it is executed subject Further information on resolution 18: to the terms of the Programme Agreement.
The terms of each Off-market purchases of own shares CFT will provide for the Company to purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
As noted in the Directors Report on page 58, approval will be The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to each CFT is limited to 30,000 shares per week.
make off-market purchases of its shares.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular By virtue of special resolution 20 passed at the Companys week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys 2017 AGM, shareholder authority was given to the Company to share price either not rising to, or above, a level the Upper make on-market purchases of shares.
This authority was limited Suspension Level or, if applicable, falling to or below a level to a maximum of 22,043,000 shares and expires on the earlier the Lower Suspension Level and together with the Upper of the date of the AGM held in 2018 or 18 August 2018.
At the Suspension Level, the Suspension Levels.
The Suspension same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make offLevels and duration are determined by the Company and are market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent set at the time the CFT is entered into.
The Upper Suspension purchase contracts to be entered into with any of Goldman Sachs Level must be set between 104% and 110% of the Companys International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and share price at the start of the CFT.
If the Company chooses to Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a incorporate a Lower Suspension Level, it must be set between maximum of 3 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date 80% and 95% of the price at the start of the CFT.
The inclusion of the AGM to be held in 2018 or 18 August 2018.
Pursuant to of a Lower Suspension Level would help mitigate the Companys those authorities and up to 22 March 2018, the Company has financial commitment under a CFT if its share price was to fall bought back 3,577,585 shares for cancellation, representing below this level after the CFT had been executed.
If the Lower 2.4% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2017 AGM, Suspension Level is not included, the level of discount to the at a total cost of 175.2m.
No shares were bought back under market share price would be higher.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the Under Sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, the Company is not term of a CFT the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of the CFT.
The Forward Price will be determined by the Bank with of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to reference to the volume weighted average price for shares traded the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, the Market Abuse in NEXT on the day the CFT is entered into.
The Forward Price is Regulations MAR limit the Companys ability to purchase its subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary price sensitive information about the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when entering a CFT and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks the directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive respectively.
The Company will announce the details of each CFT information Closed Periods.
The Company typically follows on the day it is entered into and any subsequent termination via the definition of Closed Period in Article 19 11 of MAR which the UK Listing Authoritys Regulatory News Service.
This structure includes 30 days before the announcement of its interim results would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the in September and full year results in March each year.
In the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long absence of a Programme Agreement as defined below, these as the Suspension Levels are not reached, without breaching the Closed Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Listing Rules.
If any Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would Company is able to purchase.
terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase be purchased under that contract.
activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and nonUnder the provisions of Sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Closed the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility and reducing are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the the cost, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 18, which will be purchase contracts outside of Closed Periods.
As in previous proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval years, the Company intends to enter into new agreements the to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into Programme Agreements, with each of the Banks, under between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme which the Company may although it is not obliged to enter into Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT the date of the next AGM to be held in 2019 and 17 August 2019 from time to time.
and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be affected outside a Closed Period but shares may be purchased during a Closed Period by the Company.
156 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT Meeting formalities and voting may be affected with the Banks at any time, provided that: Attending the Annual General Meeting the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and in accordance 3 million, representing circa 2% of its issued share capital at with the Articles and pursuant to Regulation 41 of the 22 March 2018: Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and for the purposes of determining the number of votes shareholders may cast, the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted shareholders must be registered in the register of members of to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 200m the Company as at 6.30 pm on 15 May 2018 or, if the meeting including costs : is adjourned, shareholders must be entered on the Companys the Forward Price may not exceed 105 per cent of the average register of members at 6.30 pm on the day two days before the of the middle market price of a share according to the adjourned meeting.
Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five The total number of the Companys issued share capital on business days immediately preceding the day on which the 22 March 2018, which is the latest practicable date before the share is purchased: publication of this Notice, is 143,478,977 ordinary shares.
All of the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares at the time the CFT was effected: held in treasury.
On a vote by a show of hands every member who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 10p: and been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote has one vote.
only one CFT will be entered into on any particular day.
On a poll vote every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share they hold.
Shares purchased under the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under In line with best practice, all resolutions will be put to poll any authority granted at the AGM on 17 May 2018 for on-market votes.
The directors believe a poll is more representative of purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on shareholders voting intentions because shareholders votes are the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to counted according to the number of shares held and all votes the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion tendered are taken into account.
The procedures for the poll of the AGM of the Company held in 2019 or on 17 August 2019, votes will be explained at the AGM.
whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to In respect of resolution 18 on off-market share purchase that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any contracts, the 2006 Act provides that this resolution will not be CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in any of those shares in voting on the resolution and the resolution the case of certain events of default or termination events.
would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available NEXT intends to disregard any poll votes which are cast in favour at the AGM on 17 May 2018.
Copies will also be available for of resolution 18 attaching to 3 million shares being the total inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT and at the offices of Slaughter and purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both May at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY during usual business the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the hours until the date of the AGM and at the AGM itself.
total number of votes cast.
The Company has no warrants in issue in relation to its shares and The results of the AGM will be posted on our corporate website no options to subscribe for its shares outstanding.
co. uk after the meeting and notified to the UK all outstanding employee share options and share awards will Listing Authority.
be satisfied by the transfer of market-purchased shares from the ESOT refer to Note 23 of the financial statements.
157 Notice of Meeting Voting and proxies CREST voting facility Whether or not you intend to attend the AGM in person, you are Those shareholders who hold shares through CREST may choose requested to complete and return the form of proxy to Equiniti, to appoint a proxy or proxies using CREST for the AGM to be to arrive as soon as possible but in any event not later than 9.30 held on 17 May 2018 and any adjournment s thereof by using am on 15 May 2018 or 48 hours before any adjourned meeting.
the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal The completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST you from attending and voting at the AGM if you so wish.
members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, A shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him her, provided that each proxy is appointed to In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a by that shareholder.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder of CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in the Company and may vote on any other business which may accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications properly come before the meeting.
and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless The statements of the rights of members in relation to the of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed paragraphs headed Electronic voting and CREST voting proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be facility below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
Nominated persons are reminded For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time that they should contact the registered holder of their shares as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by and not the Company on matters relating to their investments the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is in the Company.
able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted, the senior to the appointee through other means.
holder being the first named of the joint holders to appear in the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Companys share register.
or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & A member who appoints as their proxy someone other than the Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the proxy attends the CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and meeting and is aware of the voting intention of the member.
If no limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST voting instruction is given, the proxy has discretion on whether Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member and how to vote.
concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to The CREST Manual is available at www.
the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of Securities Regulations 2001. proxies will take precedence.
Electronic voting As an alternative to completing and returning a form of proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing our registrars website www.
You will require your unique Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number as printed on the proxy card.
The use by members of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later than 9.30 am on 15 May 2018.
158 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Right to ask questions Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
Documents available for inspection Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours and will be available for 15 minutes prior to and for the duration of the AGM.
Terms of appointment of the non-executive directors The Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 18 Copies will also be available for inspection at the offices of Slaughter and May at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY during usual business hours until the close of the AGM.
Company website A full copy of the Annual Report which includes this Notice, together with those for prior years, and other information required by Section 311A of the 2006 Act can be found on the NEXT plc website at www.
Under Section 527 of the 2006 Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on its website.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
159 Other Shareholder Information Registered office Registrars and transfer office Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Registered in England and Wales, no.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Overseas Shareholder Payment of dividend Helpline Number 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open 8.30 am to The recommended final dividend, if approved, will be paid 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
on 1 August 2018 to holders of ordinary shares registered at close of business on 6 July 2018.
The ordinary shares will trade Shareholder enquiries ex-dividend from 5 July 2018.
The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Please contact them online at www.
co. uk or using the Annual General Meeting contact details above if you have any enquiries about your NEXT The AGM will be held at 9.30 am on Thursday 17 May 2018 at shareholding including the following matters: the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester change of name and address: LE19 1SW.
The Notice of the Meeting on pages 154 to 159 sets out business to be transacted.
Full access is available to the loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or dividend venue for those with special requirements.
confirmation: if you receive duplicate sets of Company mailings as a result of Share price data an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if appropriate, Stock Exchange Code: NXT.
The Shareview Portfolio service from Equiniti gives you more 2018 2017 online information about your NEXT shares and other investments.
Share price at financial year end 52.18 38.50 For direct access to information held for you on the share register, Market capitalisation 7,560m 5,662m including recent balance movements and a daily valuation of Share price movement during year: investments held in your portfolio, visit www.
High mid-market quotation 53.20 70.20 For shareholders with disabilities Equiniti provides the following: Low mid-market quotation 36.17 38.26 if requested future communications produced by them will be Discount voucher sent in the appropriate format: The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, telephone number 44 0 371 384 2255 for shareholders with registered shareholder holding a minimum number of 100 hearing difficulties: ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The shareholder discount hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting voucher entitles the recipient or their immediate family to a shareholders.
25% discount against most purchases at any one time of full price NEXT merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
There is no limit on the value of goods that can be purchased at that time.
CREST The voucher expires on 31 October of the year in which it was The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic issued.
It cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount settlement.
voucher or offer, nor can it be used for the purchase of gift cards, Sale merchandise, electrical goods, non-NEXT branded goods Payments of dividends to or purchases from NEXT Online unless ordered through one of our Retail stores.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee mandated accounts or ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the voucher through their nominee or ISA account manager who should email Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid alyson wenlock@next.
directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend confirmation or is available to download from the NEXT website on www.
160 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Forward looking statements This Report and Accounts contains forward looking statements which are all matters that are not historical facts, including anticipated financial and operational performance, business prospects and similar matters.
These forward looking statements are identifiable by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, budget, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, plan, project and similar expressions.
These forward looking statements reflect NEXTs current expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks described in Risks & Uncertainties on pages 42 to 46: failure by NEXT to predict accurately customer fashion preferences: decline in the demand for merchandise offered by NEXT: competitive influences: changes in level of store traffic or consumer spending habits: effectiveness of NEXTs Brand awareness and marketing programmes: general economic conditions or a downturn in the retail industry: the inability of NEXT to successfully implement relocation or expansion of existing stores: insufficient consumer interest in NEXT Online: acts of war or terrorism worldwide: work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes: and changes in financial or equity markets.
These forward looking statements do not amount to any representation that they will be achieved as they involve risks and uncertainties and relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future and there can be no guarantee of future performance.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this document.
NEXT does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100: process chlorine free PCF paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC.
This is a certified CarbonNeutral publication.
Emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this product have been measured and reduced to net zero through a verified carbon offsetting project via The CarbonNeutral Company.
This is in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, the global leading standard for carbon neutrality.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 27 JANUARY 2018
