As defined in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements.
Underlying is shown pre-exceptional items.
151 Glossary Alternative performance measures The directors use alternative performance measures APMs as they believe these measures provide additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
These measures are used for performance analysis.
The APMs are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies APMs.
These measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
Divisional operating profit Divisional profit before interest and tax, excluding equity-settled share option charges recognised under IFRS 2 Share-based payment and unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Refer to Note 1 of the financial statements.
Earnings Per Share EPS The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders.
Refer to Note 8 of the financial statements.
Full price sales Total sales excluding items sold in our mid-season or end-of-season Sale events and our Clearance operations and includes interest income relating to those sales.
Full price sales are a direct indicator of the performance and profitability of the business.
Bought-in gross margin Difference between the cost of stock and initial selling price, expressed as a percentage of achieved total VAT exclusive selling prices.
Bought-in gross margin is a measure of the profit made on the sale of stock at full price.
Like-for-like sales Growth in sales from Retail stores which have been open for at least one full year.
This metric enables the performance of the Retail stores to be measured on a consistent year-on-year basis and is a common term used in the retail industry.
Net branch profit contribution Retail store total sales less cost of sales, payroll, controllable costs, occupancy costs and depreciation.
Expressed as a percentage of VAT inclusive sales.
Net branch profit is a measure of the profitability on a store by store level.
Net debt Comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank loans, corporate bonds, fair value hedges of corporate bonds and finance leases.
Refer to Note 28 of the financial statements.
Net debt is a measure of the Groups indebtedness.
Net operating margin Profit after deducting markdowns and all direct and indirect trading costs, expressed as a percentage of achieved total sales.
Net margin measures whether profitability is changing at a higher or lower rate relative to revenue.
Total sales VAT exclusive full price and markdown sales including the full value of commission based sales and interest income as described and reconciled in Note 1 of the financial statements.
Total sales is a direct indicator of performance.
Underlying like-for-like sales Like-for-like sales, excluding stores impacted by new openings.
This is a measure of the annual performance of stores taking into account the impact of new store openings on existing stores.
Underlying profit and Earnings Per Share Underlying profit and Earnings Per Share measures exclude exceptional items and are shown on a consistent 52 week basis, where relevant.
Allows for more consistent comparison, excluding one-off items.
152 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Other definitions Capital expenditure Capex The additions to property, plant and equipment.
Exceptional items Exceptional items relate to certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are excluded from the Groups underlying performance measures by virtue of their size and nature in order to better reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
FTE FTE refers to full time equivalent number of employees.
Internal rate of return IRR Internal rate of return is a discount rate that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular project equal to zero.
Like-for-like stores Retail stores which have traded for at least one full year.
Clearance stores sell stock left over from the NEXT end-of-season Sale activity.
Markdown sales VAT exclusive sales of stock items in our mid-season or end-of-season Sale events and our Clearance operations.
Online active customers Customers who have placed an Online order or received a standard account statement in the last 20 weeks.
Online cash customers Online customers who pay at the time of ordering online or via the Call Centre.
Online credit customers Customers who order using an Online credit account nextpay account.
Retail selling space Selling space is defined as the trading floor area of a store which excludes stockroom and administration areas.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan refer to page 77.
SMP Share Matching Plan refer to page 77.
Total Shareholder Returns TSR TSR has been calculated by reference to the growth in share price combined with the notional investment of gross dividends on ex-dividend dates to create a dividend fraction.
