Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Responsibilities Statement Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibilities statement and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: As a listed company within the European Union, the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in a. the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The directors have elected to fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance of the Group: with the Companies Act 2006 and UK Accounting Standard FRS b. the Strategic Report contained in this Annual Report 101 Reduced disclosure framework.
includes a fair review of the development and performance Under company law the directors must not approve the financial of the business and the position of the Company and the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Group, together with a description of the principal risks and view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of uncertainties that they face: the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the c. the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, financial statements, the directors are required to: balanced and understandable and provides the information select suitable accounting policies and then apply necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys them consistently: performance, business model and strategy: and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable d. the Parent Company financial statements, which have been and prudent: prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standard FRS 101 Reduced disclosure framework, give a true and fair present information, including accounting policies, in a view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the Company.
understandable information: On behalf of the Board in respect of the Group financial statements, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and performance: state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise Amanda James Chief Executive Group Finance Director in respect of the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been 23 March 2018 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
