Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2018 1 Corporate information NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating in the Middle East, Europe, United Kingdom, Africa, South America and North America.
The Group is primarily based in United Arab Emirates UAE.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London, W1J 8AJ.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi Mr. Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom two are directors of the Company and who together have the ability to control the Company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, home care services, long term care services and the provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction, and the rendering of business management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector.
The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 06 March 2019.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration payable which have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods, presented.
Functional and reporting currency The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in the UAE is the UAE Dirham and the functional currency of the subsidiaries operating outside UAE is the currency of those respective countries.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognized currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review in the Annual Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review in the Annual Report.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the Board each quarterly.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its expansion through acquisitions and in relation to working capital requirements.
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2018.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth in revenue during 2018.
Net profit and earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortization EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2018.
EBITDA margin of Distribution is almost the same as last year whereas for Healthcare it increased slightly which is due to opening of new facilities during the year.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2019 and the five-year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in the UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee Rights arising from other contractual arrangements The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2018 2017 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100% NMC Eugin UK Limited UK 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 100% 100% Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 100% 100% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100% Bright Point Royal Womens Hospital LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Hospital LLC DIP Hospital UAE 100% 100% Medifertil, S. A Columbia 61.90% 61.90% Centro fide infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU CIRH Spain 88.40% 88.40% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione Biogenesi Italy 53.00% 53.00% EUVITRO, S. L. U Spain 88.40% 88.40% Copenhagen Fertility Center Holding Aps DK Denmark 79.60% 79.60% Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, S A BR Brazil 53% 53% ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% 100% Lifewise Home Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% 104 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2018 2017 NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 100% 100% The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 100% 100% Americare LLC UAE 100% 100% Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% 75% Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC.
UAE 100% 100% Sunny Medical Centre LLC.
UAE 100% 100% New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Dental Care LLC.
UAE 100% 100% Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Sharjah Pharmacy L. L. C UAE 100% 100% Sunny Sharqan Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% NMC Healthcare L. L. C. Oman 100% 100% Fulfil Trading L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Nadia Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Cooper Dermatology and Dentistry Clinic UAE 100% 100% Cooper Health Clinic UAE 100% 100% Fakih IVF Fertility Centre LLC UAE 100% 51% Fakih IVF LLC UAE 100% 51% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi Branch.
UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC.
-Branch 2 UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Branch 3 UAE 100% 100% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLC-Ajman Branch UAE 100% 100% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC-Ajman UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Company LLC-Ajman Branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC-Ajman Branch UAE 100% 100% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co. LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC Dubai Branch UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLCDubai Branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLCDubai Branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLCFujairah Branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading RAKBranch LLC UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre L. L. C. Branch Al-Ain, Al wadi UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy-Branch UAE 100% 100% PVHC KSA KSA 100% 100% TVM KSA Acquisition 2 Ltd. Cyprus 100% 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC-Branch UAE 100% 100% Muscat Central Healthcare L. L. C. Oman 100% 100% NMC Healthcare India Pvt.
Ltd. India 100% 100% NMC International Trading L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Cooper Health Clinic-Branch UAE 100% 100% New Reproductive Care Ltd Cayman 51% 51% Islands New Medical Centre Abu Dhabi Branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC Branch 1 UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC Branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Pharmacy Al Ain Branch 1 UAE 100% 100% Focus Optics UAE 100% 100% Bright Point Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Lotus Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% New Medial Centre Pharmacy LLC Sharjah UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC-Abu Dhabi Br UAE 100% 100% Provita International Medical Centre LLC Alain branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Medical Professional Training Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL Branch 1 UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL Branch 2 UAE 100% 100% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 2.2 Basis of consolidation continued Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2018 2017 New Pharmacy Company WLL Branch 6 UAE 100% 100% Royal Arsom Wellness Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Medical Centre Branch 2 scientific store UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Pharmacy LLC Alain UAE 100% 100% Fertilitetsklinikken Lygten A S Denmark 79.60% 79.60% Luarmia, S. L. Spain 88.40% 88.40% Al Aseel Laundry UAE 100% 100% Zari Spa & Beauty Centre UAE 100% 100% Zari Spa for Men UAE 100% 100% PEL Assistencia A Infertilidade LTDA Brazil 53% 53% Mustashfa Jadeed Fund KSA 100% 100% Al Qadi Speciality Hospital LLC KSA 60% 60% As Salama Hospital LLC KSA 99% 70% Al Zahra Private Hospital Company UAE 100% 100% Sunny Halwan Speciality Medical Centre UAE 100% 100% Hamad Drug Store LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Maysloon Speciality Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Centre fide Reproduccio Asistida del Fecunmed Spain 70.7% 70.7% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC Oman 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC Oman 100% 100% Fertilitetsklinikken Lygten A S-Branch 2 Denmark 79.6% 79.6% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione-C. M. R, S. R. L-Branch 2 Italy 53% 53% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione-C. M. R, S. R. L-Branch 3 Italy 53% 53% Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductiva, Vila Mariana S A Brazil 53% 53% Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductiva Campinas Ltda Brazil 88.4% 88.4% Euvitro, S. L. U-Branch 2 Spain 88.4% 88.4% NMC Royal Medical Clinic L. L. C. Etisalat UAE 100% NMC Royal First Aid Clinic LLC Adnec Clinic UAE 100% NMC Royal First Aid Clinic LLC Adnec ClinicBranch 2 UAE 100% Hamad Al Ihterafeya Pharmacy L. L. C UAE 100% Hamad Al Mumayazah Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% Hamad Al Oula Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% NMC Medical Centre Ajman LLC Br.
UAE 100% NMC Royal Dental Centre UAE 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre UAE 100% NMC Royal Pharmacy Centre UAE 100% Emirates Medical Center LLC Oman 100% New Medical Centre Pharmacy Branch UAE 100% Fakih Medical Center L. L. C UAE 100% Fakih Medical Center Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% Bareen International Hospital UAE 100% Bareen Pharmacy UAE 100% Fakih IVF Center Oman 100% Fakih IVF Fertility Center LLC-Branch 3 UAE 100% Mesk Al Madina Medical Centre L. L. C UAE 100% Zanbaq Al Madina Pharmacy L. L. C UAE 100% NMC Healthcare UK Limited UK 100% HCN European Surgery Center Holdings Limited UK 100% European Surgical Partners Limited UK 100% Global Healthcare Partners Limited UK 100% Aspen Healthcare Limited UK 100% Parkside IHL Scanning Services LLP UK 51.8% Edinburgh Medical Services Limited T A The Edinburgh Clinic UK 100% Eye-Docs Limited T A Midland Eye UK 70.0% Aspen Leasing Limited UK 100% Crossco 1385 Limited UK 100% HTI St James'S Limited T A Nova Healthcare UK 100% Cancer Centre London LLP UK 63.0% Highgate Hospital LLP UK 99.0% Claremont Hospital Holdings Limited UK 100% Claremont Hospital LLP UK 81.0% NMC Fertility Kenya Limited Kenya 60% NMC Healthcare Sukuk Limited Cayman 100% Islands 106 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2018 2017 Cytomed Middle East Branch of Abu Dhabi UAE 100% Cytomed Middle East LLC Sharjah UAE 100% New Medical Center Trading Store LLC Branch2 UAE 100% NMC Health Jersey Limited UK 100% New Pharmacy Company Wll-Branch4 UAE 100% Premier Care Home Medical And Health Care L. L. C UAE 70% Taskeen Home Medical And Health Care L. L. C UAE 70% Reaya Mumayaza Specialized For Medical Home Care LLC UAE 70% NMC Health Investments LLC UAE 100% Chronic Care Specialist Medical Center Co KSA 100% New Medical Centre Hospital Hail KSA 100% Al Salam Medical Group JSC Company KSA 80% Al Salam Hospital KSA 80% Al Salam Polyclinic KSA 80% Ishbaliya Polyclinic Company LLS KSA 80% Sandook Al Watani Al Tejari LLC KSA 100% Emirates Hospital Wellness And Obesity Clinic UAE 100% Poly Clinic Aesthetic Dermatology Plastic Surgery Dental LlC UAE 100% Aesthetic Skin Care Clinic LlC UAE 75% Centurion Medical Facilities Management Group LLC UAE 100% CosmeSurge Investment LLC UAE 70% CosmeSurge Hospital Umm Suquiem UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC, Jumeirah UAE 70% CosmeSurge & Emirates Clinics For One Day Surgery LLC UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC, Marina Branch UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC, Conrad Branch UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC Branch Of Abu Dhabi UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC Fujarah Branch UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC Oman Branch Oman 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC Rak Branch 1 UAE 70% CosmeSurge Clinics LLC Rak Branch UAE 70% CosmeSurge & Emirates Clinics For One Day Surgery LLC Br 2 UAE 70% CosmeSurge & Emirates Clinics For One Day Surgery LLC Br 1 UAE 70% CosmeSurge & Emirates Clinics For One Day Surgery LLC.
S Br UAE 70% CREA, SRL Italy 88.4% Pr-Criar Participaoes E Empreendimentos S A Brazil 53.0% Clnica Jpjc Ltda Brazil 53.0% Clnica fide Reproduo Assistida Sul Mineira Ltda Brazil 53.0% Eugin Sweden Ab Sweden 66.3% Nordic Eggbank Ab Sweden 66.3% Nordic IVF Center Gteborg Ab Sweden 66.3% Nordic IVF Center Malm Ab Sweden 66.3% Nordic IVF Och Gynekologi Stockholm Ab Sweden 66.3% Stockholm IVF Ab Sweden 66.3% AVA Clinic SIA Latvia 100% NMC Eugin USA Corporation USA 70% Boston IVF Ventures, LLC Holdco USA 70% BIVF Management Services, LLC Company USA 70% Friendly doctor USA 70% Albany Fertility & Gynecology, PLLC Albany IVF USA 70% Boston IVF, LLC ' Boston Subsidiary USA 70% Boston IVF Fertility Services at The Womens Hospital, LLC USA 70% MPD Medical, LLC USA 70% Boston IVF CRMI'Holding, LLC USA 70% Boston IVF The Arizona Center, LLC USA 70% Scottsdale Boston Surgery Center, LLC USA 70% NMC Genetics India Private Limited India 85% NMC Lifesciences LLC UAE 100% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 2.2 Basis of consolidation continued During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group increased its shareholding in the listed below.
Subsidiaries and the excess of consideration paid over the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest amounting to US$ 184,406,000 been recognised in retained earnings: Acquiree Country Additional stake Date of subsequent purchase As Salama Hospital LLC KSA 29% 03 January 2018 Fakih IVF Fertility Center LLC and Fakih IVF LLC UAE 49% 08 February 2018 2.3 Significant accounting judgements and estimates The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Significant estimates Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arms length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset.
The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model.
The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the assets performance of the CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
These estimates are most relevant to goodwill recognised by the Group.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are disclosed and further explained in note 19.
Valuation of intangibles assets The Group measures its intangible assets acquired in a business combination as follows: Brand Relief from royalty Database and software Replacement cost Patient relationships Multi period excess earning method Non-compete agreements Income approach-with or without method Rental and private contracts Multi period excess earning method Estimating the fair value of the brand requires determination of the most appropriate valuation method.
This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation method including the base revenue, expected life of the intangible assets, selecting an arms length royalty rate, discount rate and making assumptions about them.
Most significant inputs which can materially impact values are base revenue and royalty rate.
Similarly, estimating the replacement cost of the database requires an estimate of the number of cycles that are recorded in the database along with the best estimate of the hours dedicated by the staff such as doctors, nurses, biologists, and other specialist technicians to collect the data, the useful life of the database, discount rate and an estimate of tax saving.
Estimating the fair value of patient relationships and the non-compete agreements requires an estimate of the expected revenue over an appropriate period of time, a churn rate to account for the reduction in the number of patients over the years, discount rate, rate of inflation and the useful life and the risk inherent in ownership of the asset or security interest being valued.
Most significant inputs which can materially impact values are expected revenue and churn rate.
Contingent consideration on acquisitions Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination.
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The determination of the fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant performance targets, securing certain agreements, completing certain acquisitions and the discount factor note 39.
Rejections on medical services In the Middle East, the normal business practice associated with transactions with insurers includes an amount of claims disallowed i. e. rejections which is not paid by the insurer.
These disallowed claims could be for various technical or medical reasons.
The Group accepts and expects an amount of consideration that is less than what was originally claimed.
The Group determines the rejections based on historical rate of 2-3 years multiplied to the credit sales.
Rejection rate is key in determining the rejection amount.
Any significant changes in experience as compared to historical rejections will impact the expected rejection rates estimated by the Group.
A 10% increase and decrease of rejection rate would result in increase and decrease in profit before tax by an amount of US$ 1,370,000.
108 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Provision for expected credit losses of trade receivables The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables.
The provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer segments that have similar loss patterns i. e. by geography, product type, customer type.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Groups historical observed default rates.
At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions.
The Groups historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customers actual default in the future.
The information about the ECLs on the Groups trade receivables is disclosed in Note 22.
Significant judgements Business combinations and goodwill When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are recognised.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, then the difference is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Judgements are applied to measure the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities.
This mostly relate to measurement of intangible assets and contingent consideration.
Judgements include if a separately recognisable intangible exits and selection of appropriate method for valuation of intangibles.
The key judgement in respect of the contingent consideration recognised as part of business combination relate to the performance of the business.
Measurement of intangibles and contingent consideration include various estimates also.
Refer to estimate section for detail of these.
Valuation of put option The accounting for put options requires significant management judgment and is driven by the specific contract terms.
Put options were issued as part of the Luarmia SL, CFC HCMR and Fecunmed acquisitions.
On the basis of the contract terms and interpretation of relevant accounting standards and guidance, the judgment is that the Group does not have present ownership of the non-controlling interest NCI on account of Luarmia SL, CFC HCMR and Fecunmed as at the date of acquisition.
This judgment leads to the next stage of the accounting decisions required.
The Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32, and the permitted policy choice is that there should be full recognition of NCI using the proportionate method.
The financial liability that is payable under the put option is measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant reproductive cycles, EBITDA and net debt targets note 38.
Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2018, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$ 370,000 2017: US$ 569,000 included within property and equipment as at 31 December 2018 note 18.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these Leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups over 45 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 18 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
Lease for NMC Royal Hospital LLC NMC Royal Hospital LLC is constructed from land leased from Municipality of Abu Dhabi.
Remaining period of lease as of 31 December 2018 is 22 years expiring in 2040.
Management has determined the useful life of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building 50 years.
Carrying amount of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building included in property and equipment as of 31 December 2018 is US$ 131,969,000 2017: US$ 130,042,000.
Management believe that lease will be renewed for the full useful life of the building.
The directors have considered the facts that throughout the Groups 45 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the lessor in determining the likelihood that lease will be renewed.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 2.3 Significant accounting judgements and estimates continued Significant judgements continued Revenue from contracts with customers The Group applied the following judgement that significantly affect the determination of the amount and timing of revenue: Principal v s agent considerations: Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements if it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it acts as the primary obligator and it bears the risk of controls the goods before delivery to customers, providing the medical service and sales of goods.
2.4 Changes in accounting policies New and amended standards and interpretations: The Group applied for the first-time certain amendments to the standards, which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has not early adopted any standards, interpretations or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and related Interpretations and it applies, with limited exceptions, to all revenue arising from contracts with its customers.
IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers and requires that revenue be recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
IFRS 15 requires entities to exercise judgement, taking into consideration all of the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 using modified retrospective method of adoption.
The adoption of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 resulted in immaterial adjustments to the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
The group has not identified any significant changes in the way in which it was recognizing Its revenue as per IFRS 15 compared to IAS 18, since the revenue is of short term nature and performance obligations are satisfied upon delivery of service goods.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement: impairment: and hedge accounting.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 9 prospectively, with the initial application date of 1 January 2018 and without restating comparative information.
As the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 has not been restated, any reclassifications and the adjustments arising from the new impairment rules are recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 January 2018.
The following tables show the adjustments recognised for each individual line item.
Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included.
31 December IFRS 9 1 January 2018 2017 adjustments adjusted Statement of financial position extracts US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Accounts receivable 440,146 17,231 422,915 Retained earnings 603,240 17,231 586,009 The change did not have impact on the Groups profit, operating, investing and financing cash flows and the basic and diluted EPS reported in 2017.
The adoption of IFRS 9 did not have significant impact on classification of financial instruments.
The new standards, amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2018 are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Considerations Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 110 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 3 Summary of significant accounting policies Revenue recognition The Group is in the business of providing medical and distribution services.
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods or services are transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The disclosures of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions relating to revenue from contracts with customers are provided in Note 2.3.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue sharing arrangement with doctors.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group has concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements, because it typically controls the goods or services before transferring them to the customer.
When the Group does not control goods or services before transferring them to the customer, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues: Clinic, homecare and long-term care service revenues primarily comprise fees charged for inpatient and outpatient medical services.
The fees for services include charges for doctors consultancy fees, room rent, radiology, laboratory, and pharmaceutical items used.
Revenue is recorded when the performance obligation are satisfied.
For outpatient customers services are simultaneously received and consumed by the patient.
For inpatient customers, revenue is recognized as serviced are performed over the period.
The Group primarily receives these revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Revenue is measured at fees calculated and billed based on various tariffs agreed with insurers reduced by provision for rejections.
Rejections are calculated based on expected value method and are determined based on average rejection rate of 2-3 years multiplied by credit sales.
The Group enters into contracts with third party doctors who perform certain procedures or run outpatient services.
The doctors are contracted to satisfy the performance obligations but the entity act as principal In return for their services, the doctors obtain a share of the revenues generated by them.
Fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed.
NMC has determined that it is acting as principal in these arrangements if it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for services which are provided, it acts as the primary obligator and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
Gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction: Revenue in respect of the different types of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction services is recognized as follows: Donor IVF and Own IVF sales In Vitro Fecundation : Revenue in respect of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction is mainly from In Vitro Fertilization IVF treatment.
Revenue from IVF treatment is recognized over time on an input method based on stage of the treatment.
The treatment is divided into three stages.
Each stage takes about 20 days.
24%-25% of revenue is booked in the first stage at the beginning of the treatment, 50%-65% of revenue is booked in the middle stage at patient's egg extraction in the case of the use of the patient's own egg or in the case of the use of a donor egg at the fertilization date and 11%-25% of revenue is booked at the final stage embryo implantation.
These percentages are based on an internal study of the costs incurred in the different streams performed in prior years.
These percentages depict the transfer of control of promised services.
Cryo transfer sales: Revenue from cryo transfers are recognised over time on an input method based on the stage of treatment.
25% is recorded when treatment is initialized and 75% at the embryo implantation.
These percentages depict the transfer of control of promise services.
The time between both phases is about 2-3 weeks.
Intrauterine insemination: Revenue is recognized in full at the insemination date.
Performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time which is insemination date.
Sale of Goods Pharmacy: The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is recognised when control of the goods has passed to the buyer i. e. at the point of sale delivery to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, UAE.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it typically controls the goods before delivering them to the customers.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Sale of Goods Distribution: The sales of goods from distribution division relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products to retailers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Distribution is recognised when control of the goods has passed to the buyer i. e. at the point of sale delivery to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods.
Where the Group controls the goods before delivery to the customers, the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Certain contracts provide a customer with a right to return the goods within a specified period.
The Group uses the expected value method to estimate the goods that will be returned.
For goods that are expected to be returned, the Group recognize a refund liability.
A right of return asset and corresponding adjustment to cost of sales is also recognized for the right to recover products from a customer.
Healthcare Management fees: Management fees represent fees earned for managing hospitals and medical centers.
Management fees are recognised when the performance obligations under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met.
Management fees comprises of fixed and variable components and is measured at the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled, in line with the terms of the management contracts.
Variable fees are measured based on rates agreed in the agreements and if service level criteria are met.
Contract liabilities: A contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
If a customer pays consideration before the Group transfers goods or services to the customer, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due whichever is earlier.
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Group performs under the contract.
Other income Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Group's reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
Relevant advertising and promotional costs are presented as sales promotional expenses in general and administrative expenses.
The Group has determined that it is acting as Principal in advertising and promotional arrangements since it is controlling the advertising and promotional activities.
Interest income For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
Rebates from Suppliers The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
Current income tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or tax deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted in countries where the company and subsidiaries operate by the end of the reporting period.
Current income tax also includes Zakat applicable in Saudi Arabia.
A provision is recognised for those matters for which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
The provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amount expected to become payable.
The assessment is based on the judgement of tax professionals within the company supported by previous experience in respect of such activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent tax advice.
112 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on the differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Except for investment properties measured using the fair value model, the measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
For the purposes of measuring deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets for investment properties that are measured using the fair value model the carrying amounts of such properties are presumed to be recovered through sale, unless the presumption is rebutted.
The presumption is rebutted when the investment property is depreciable and is held within a business model of the group whose business objective is to consume substantially all of the economic benefits embodied in the investment property over time, rather than through sale.
The group has not rebutted the presumption that the carrying amount of the investment properties will be recovered entirely through sale.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in profit or loss, except when they relate to items credited or debited outside profit or loss either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is also recognised outside profit or loss either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively, or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
In the case of a business combination, the tax effect is taken into account in calculating goodwill or determining the excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost.
Value added tax VAT Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of VAT, except: When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable.
When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of financial position.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value f net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
For impairment testing, cash generating units are aggregated to operating segments.
It is the view of management that goodwill resulting from the acquisitions will generate economic benefits only when combined with other assets i. e. assets within the healthcare or distribution segments.
Therefore, impairment test is applied at operating segments level.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Restructuring reserve The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interest method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
Deferred consideration Deferred consideration arises when settlement of all or any part of the cost of a business combination is deferred.
It is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition, which is determined by discounting the amount due to present value at that date.
Interest is imputed on the fair value of non-interest bearing deferred consideration at the discount rate and expensed within finance costs.
At each balance sheet date deferred consideration comprises the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition plus unwinding of interest imputed on such amounts from acquisition to the balance sheet date.
Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 2% 6% Buildings 4.8% 6% Leasehold improvements 5.88% 20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% 20% Medical equipment 10% 25% The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
114 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 2-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationship 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Financial assets Classification and measurement The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups business model for managing them.
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component, the Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15.
Debt financial instruments are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss FVPL, amortised cost, or fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The classification is based on two criteria: the Groups business model for managing the assets: and whether the instruments contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding the SPPI criterion.
The most relevant classification for the Group is the financial instruments carried at amortised cost.
The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: and The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest EIR method and are subject t o impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost primarily includes trade receivables.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Impairment The adoption of IFRS 9 has fundamentally changed the Groups accounting for impairment losses for financial assets by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking expected credit loss ECL approach.
IFRS 9 requires the Group to record an allowance for ECLs for all loans and other debt financial assets not held at FVPL.
ECLs are estimated using a provision matrix permissible under the simplified approach outlined as per IFRS 9.
ECLs are recognised in two stages.
For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the next 12-months a 12-month ECL.
For those credit exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default a lifetime ECL.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Equity The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
Accounts payable and accruals Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle if the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
Put option Non controlling interest In circumstances where the Group has determined that they do not have the present ownership interest in the shares subject to a put option, the Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32 and accordingly a non-controlling interest NCI is fully recognised at the date of acquisition, The Group recognises the full NCI using the proportionate share of net assets method.
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the NCI is recognised at fair value within liabilities, with the liability being treated as an immediate reduction to equity attributable to the parent option redemption reserve.
The financial liability is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date and the change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Term Loans Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Non-current assets held for sale The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset disposal group, excluding finance costs and income tax expense.
The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Actions required to complete the sale should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale will be made or that the decision to sale will be withdrawn.
Management must be committed to the plan to sell the asset and the sale expected to be completed within one year from the date of the classification.
116 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Property and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are presented separately as current items in the statement of financial position.
Employees end of service benefits The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in the UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs Interest expense With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the costs arising from employee services rendered during the period and the cost of plan introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
The net interest cost on the net defined benefit liability is charged to profit or loss and included within finance costs.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses and the return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Company, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method.
The difference between market value of assets and present value of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees including executive directors are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 35.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves other payables.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share see note 17.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 3 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Translation of foreign operations On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The Groups principal geographical segment is the United Arab Emirates.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar so a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate those assets and liabilities and balances in the consolidated income statement.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, put options and contingent consideration.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant's ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease.
The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that asset is or those assets are not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
118 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Group as a lessee A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the contract.
On issuance of the convertible bonds, the fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for an equivalent non-convertible instrument.
This amount is classified as a financial liability measured at amortised cost net of transaction costs until it is extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option that is recognised and included in equity.
Transaction costs are deducted from equity.
The carrying amount of the conversion option is not remeasured in subsequent years.
Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bond, based on the allocation of proceeds to the liability and equity components when the instruments are initially recognised.
Sukuk Sukuk are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, sukuk are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on sukuk is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
4 Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not effective The new and amended standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these new and amended standards and interpretations, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces existing guidance on the accounting for leases, including IAS17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The standard is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 introduces a single comprehensive, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees.
IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer.
Distinctions of operating leases off balance sheet and finance leases on balance sheet are removed for lessee accounting and is replaced by a model where a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability have to be recognised for leases by lessees i. e. all on balance sheet except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from todays accounting under IAS 17.
Lessors will continue to classify all leases using the same classification principle as in IAS 17 and distinguish between two types of leases: operating and finance leases.
IFRS 16, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, requires lessees and lessors to make more extensive disclosures than under IAS 17.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 4 Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not effective continued IFRS 16 Leases continued Transition to IFRS 16 The Group will adopt IFRS 16 using modified retrospectively approach, with the initial application date of 1 January 2019 and without restating comparative information.
As the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 will not be restated, any reclassifications and the adjustments arising will be recognised in the opening balance sheet on 1 January 2019.
The Group will use the following practical expedients when applying this Standard retrospectively to leases previously classified as operating leases applying IAS 17.
Group will apply these practical expedients on a lease-by-lease basis: 1.
Group will apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics such as leases with a similar remaining lease term for a similar class of underlying asset in a similar economic environment.
Group will elect not to apply the requirements of IFRS 16 to leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application.
In this case, Group will: i account for those leases in the same way as short-term leases: and ii Include the cost associated with those leases within the disclosure of short-term lease expense in the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application.
Group will use hindsight, such as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.
The right of use ROU assets will be taken as equal to lease liability as of transaction date.
On adoption of requirements of IFRS 16, the Groups operating profit will improve being the operating lease rental amount that will be replaced by a depreciation charge and interest expense.
This is due to the change in the accounting for expenses of leases that were classified as operating leases under IAS 17.
The Group has designed a new leasing strategy, and the actual impact of the IFRS 16 on lease expense, finance expenses, depreciation, lease liability and right of use of assets to be brought onto the consolidated financial statements as at 1 January 2019 can only be estimated once the new strategy will be implemented.
New strategy includes renegotiation of lease terms, rentals and other services with the lessors, decisions to buy or lease out on case by case basis.
At the date of the consolidated financial statement, the following other standards, amendments and Interpretations have not been effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: a IFRIC 23 Uncertainty Over Income Tax Treatments effective 1 January 2019: b Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2019: c Annual Improvements to IFRS 2015 2017 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12 and IAS 23 effective 1 January 2019: d Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IAS 28 effective 1 January 2019: e Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associates or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Available for optional adoption effective date deferred indefinitely: f IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment effective 1 January 2019: g Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement effective 1 January 2019: and h Transfer to Investment Property Amendments to IAS 40.
With the exception of IFRS 16, management anticipates that the application of the above Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the consolidated financial statement of the Group in the period of initial application.
120 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 5 Business combinations During the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the Group completed a number of acquisitions in line with its growth strategy.
These acquisitions have increased groups market share in the healthcare industry and complement the groups existing healthcare portfolio.
Aspen, Boston IVF, Premier and Cytomed fair value assessment is provisional.
The non-controlling interest in all acquired entities is measured at the proportionate share of net assets of subsidiaries.
With respect to the bargain gain on acquisition Group re-assessed whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviewed the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
The reassessment still resulted in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred.
The Group purchased Aspen at a discounted price as compared to its estimated fair market value from market participants perspective.
NMC competitive edge over other prospective bidders helps to conclude the transaction at a bargain purchase.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 5 Business combinations continued Analysis of cash flows on acquisitions is as follows: CS BIVF CCSMC Al Salam Aspen Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 129,050 64,700 52,542 36,525 7,771 260,946 551,534 Loan paid adjusted 39,211 39,211 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 4,898 2,940 2,703 857 1,459 18,857 31,714 Transaction costs 1,592 80 253 684 1,145 3,754 Net cash flow on acquisition 124,152 63,352 10,708 35,921 6,996 243,234 484,363 The transaction costs reported in the consolidated income statement comprise of the following: 2018 2017 US$ 000 US$ 000 Transaction costs for the acquired entities 3,754 4,663 Transaction costs for acquisitions in progress 1,222 1,306 4,976 5,969 Other financial information with respect to acquired entities is as follows: Total Particulars US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 214,020 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 14,817 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2018 unaudited 468,139 Profit after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2018 unaudited 16,477 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 63,135 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 63,135 On the grounds of commercial sensitivity the profit information for individual acquired entities is not provided however overall profit impact for all acquired entities is disclosed.
The goodwill recognised with respect to all the acquisitions made during 2018 is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of acquired entities with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the acquired entities.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that the acquired entities & NMC will obtain.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment US$ 371,163,000 and distribution segment US$ 19,166,000.
Acquisition of CosmeSurge Investment LLC CosmeSurge or CS On 18 January 2018, the Group agreed to acquire 70% controlling stake of CS.
CS is an industry leader in the UAE in providing quality cosmetic surgery and aesthetic medicine.
The assets being acquired include 17 operational clinics, and a 10-bed hospital and two new clinics which are being constructed and scheduled to open in 2018.
NMC currently provides invasive cosmetic procedures and complex surgeries and the addition of CS will expand the Groups offering.
Having managed CS under an Operation and Management O&M contract since September 2017, NMC has already identified a number of revenue and cost synergy opportunities.
NMC acquired control of CosmeSurge on 21 March 2018, date on which all conditions precedents were completed, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
This date is 31 March 2018, with full consolidation commencing on 1 April 2018.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 21 March 2018 and 31 March 2018.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$11,572,000 and customer relationship of US$4,900,000.
The fair values of brands have been assessed using the relief from royalties method and customer relationship have been assessed using the multi-period excess earning method.
No deferred tax liability has been recognized as there is no Corporation tax applicable in UAE.
122 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Acquisition of CosmeSurge Investment LLC CosmeSurge or CS continued The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of CosmeSurge with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the CosmeSurge.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that CosmeSurge & NMC will obtain.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
Between 1 April 2018 to 31 December 2018 turnover of US$ 49,438,000 arising from CosmeSurge was included in Groups turnover.
If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups turnover for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$ 62,847,000.
Acquisition of Boston IVF BIVF On 17 December 2018, the Group agreed to acquire 70% controlling stake of Boston IVF Group BIVF.
Boston IVF is one of the main US leaders in Assisted Reproductive Technology ART market which offers services of medicine related to fertility, gynaecology and obstetrics.
BIVF was founded in 1986 and its based in Waltham, Massachusetts United States.
NMC acquired control of BIVF on 17 December 2018, date on which all conditions precedents were completed, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
This date is 31 December 2018, with full consolidation commencing on 1 January 2019.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 17 December 2018 and 31 December 2018.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$33,381,000 The fair values of brands have been assessed using the relief from royalties method with a related deferred tax liability in respect of these intangible assets of US$9,914,000.
The related deferred tax liability has been assessed using the rate of corporation tax 30% applicable in USA.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of BIVF with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the BIVF.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that BIVF & NMC will obtain.
If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups turnover for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$ 70,222,000.
Acquisition of Chronic Care Specialist Medical Center CCSMC, On 05 February 2018, the Group agreed to acquire a 100% controlling stake in the voting shares of CCSMC, an unlisted long-term care provider based in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia having a licensed capacity of about 220 beds.
NMC acquired control of CCSMC on 21 March 2018 when NMC obtained the required regulatory approvals from the authorities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
An amount of US$13,300,000 was paid to shareholders of CCSMC to acquire its entire share capital.
As at the date of acquisition, included in the net liabilities of CCSMC were long term loans payable to NMC amounting to US$ 39,211,000.
The acquisition transaction in effect settles the pre-existing relationship between the NMC and the previous shareholders of CCSMC therefore the total purchase consideration is deemed to be US$ 52,542,000.
There is no deferred and contingent consideration payable.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brand amounting to US$6,981,000.
The fair values of brand have been assessed using the relief from royalties method.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of CCSMC with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the CCSMC.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that CCSMC & NMC will obtain.
Between 1 April 2018 to 31 December 2018 turnover of US$ 7,773,000 arising from CCSMC was included in Groups turnover.
If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups turnover for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$ 10,392,000.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 5 Business combinations continued Acquisition of Al Salam Hospital Al Salam On 21 January 2018, the Group agreed to acquire 80% controlling stake of Al Salam.
Al Salam Medical Group's hospital and clinics focus on a number of key specialities, including cardiology and paediatrics and served over 900k patients in 2017.
ASMG served over 900,000 patients in 2017 and has a healthy mix of cash and insurance patients.
The assets and businesses of ASMG comprise: Al Salam Medical Centre established in 1985 This includes 31 clinics across 16 specialities.
The company employs over 200 staff: Ishbilia Medical Center established in 2003 This includes 34 clinics across 15 specialities.
The company employs 174 staff: and Al Salam Hospital commenced operations in Q4 2016 This is a 100-bed hospital.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed on 2 April 2018, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
This date is 1 April 2018, with full consolidation commencing on 1 April 2018.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 1 April 2018 and 2 April 2018.
The agreed cash purchase consideration for the business was US$36,525,000.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$8,345,000 and license right of US$3,733,000.
The fair values of brands have been assessed using the relief from royalties method and license have been assessed using replacement cost method.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Al Salam with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the Al Salam.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that Al Salam & NMC will obtain.
Between 1 April 2018 to 31 December 2018 turnover of US$ 21,874,000 arising from Al Salam was included in Groups turnover.
If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups turnover for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$ 29,202,000.
Acquisition of Aspen Aspen On 17th August 2018 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of HCN European Surgery Center Holdings limited, which owns 100% of Aspen Healthcare Limited Aspen based in the United Kingdom.
Aspen operates a network of 9 facilities across the country including 4 hospitals, 3 of which are based in the attractive Greater London market Parkside Hospital, The Holly Private Hospital and Highgate Hospital.
With this acquisition, the Group has expanded its footprint in United Kingdom as well.
The total purchase consideration was US$7,771,000.
The acquisition of Aspen has resulted into bargain purchase of US$ 5,567,000.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable tangible assets included property plant and equipment PPE amounting to US$3,010,000.
The fair values of PPE have been assessed using three main approaches cost, market and income approach.
Based on the nature of the assets and information available, the most appropriate approach to value each asset was followed.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Aspen Group with those of the Group.
Goodwill represents the future business potential and profit growth of the Aspen.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that Aspen & NMC will obtain.
Between 1 September 2018 to 31 December 2018 turnover of US$ 53,985,000 arising from Aspen was included in Groups turnover.
If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, the Groups turnover for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been US$ 170,434,000.
124 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Other acquisitions The Group has made several other small acquisitions during the year for which key information is provided below.
Purchase Contingent Deferred Fair value of Bargain Effective consideration consideration consideration intangibles gain Goodwill Acquiree shareholding US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Acquisitions UAE Fakih Medical Centre LLC 100% 73,800 695 63,751 Aesthetic Skin Care Clinic LLC 75% 40,839 1,851 38,385 Premier Care Home Medical and Healthcare LLC 70% 36,393 2,633 2,805 33,251 Royal Medical Centre LLC 100% 7,128 744 4,844 Others 100% 36,262 3,456 109 8,440 61 19,879 194,422 7,528 109 13,096 61 160,110 Acquisitions KSA New Medical Centre Hospital Hail 100% 28,698 1,756 5,885 28,698 1,756 5,885 Acquisitions Oman Emirates Medical Center LLC 100% 19,982 960 6,096 12,118 19,982 960 6,096 12,118 Acquisitions Europe Eugin Sweden AB 75% 17,603 7,076 18,807 AVA Clinic SIA 100% 10,810 1,217 8,195 Others 60% 100% 5,104 0 4,160 33,517 7,076 1,217 31,162 Total 276,619 14,604 1,069 22,165 61 209,275 The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of entities acquired in previous year at the dates of acquisition were as follows: Al Zahra Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Intangible assets 1,004 16,314 17,318 Property and equipment 124,196 18,786 142,982 Inventories 6,668 2,064 8,732 Accounts receivable 44,143 15,163 59,306 Other receivables 1,924 1,149 3,073 Cash and bank balances 6,095 2,438 8,533 184,030 55,914 239,944 Liabilities Borrowings 10,329 10,329 Accounts payable 26,077 5,972 32,049 Other payable 11,990 7,084 19,074 Tax payable 321 321 38,067 23,706 61,773 Total identified net assets at fair value 145,963 32,208 178,171 Non-controlling interest 8,784 8,784 Goodwill arising on acquisition 416,888 54,685 471,573 Purchase consideration 562,851 78,109 640,960 Purchase consideration: Payable in cash 562,851 73,739 636,590 Contingent consideration 704 704 Deferred consideration 2,869 2,869 Advance paid in 2016 797 797 Total consideration 562,851 78,109 640,960 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 5 Business combinations continued Analysis of cash flows for acquisitions done in previous year disclosed in 2017 consolidated financial statements was as follows: Al Zahra Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 562,851 73,739 636,590 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 6,095 2,438 8,533 Transaction costs 4,458 205 4,663 Net cash flow on acquisition 561,214 71,506 632,720 Other financial information with respect to acquired entities in 2017 is as follows: Al Zahra Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 116,343 44,631 160,974 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 30,226 1,538 31,764 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2017 unaudited 126,359 48,605 174,964 Profit loss after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2017 unaudited 32,014 6,501 25,513 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 44,143 15,163 59,306 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 44,143 15,163 59,306 Acquisition of Al Zahra Hospital Al Zahra On 14 December 2016, the Group agreed to acquire a 100% controlling stake in the voting shares of Al Zahra, UAE providing both in-patient and outpatient service to the highest standards, supported by state of art facilities.
Al Zahra is one of the largest full service multi-speciality hospitals in the UAE in Sharjah and Northern Emirates.
The hospital has 137 active in patients beds and a capacity of 154 beds expandable to at least 200 beds, treating approximately 400,000 outpatients and 23,000 in patients bed days per year.
It has strong relationships with a number of major insurance providers in Sharjah with approximately 85% of outpatients referred through the insurance channel.
The total purchase consideration was US$562,851,000.
There were no deferred and contingent consideration payable.
NMC acquired control of Al Zahra on 13 February 2017, date on which all conditions precedent were completed, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
This date is 31 January 2017, with full consolidation commencing on 1 February 2017.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 01 February 2017 and 13 February 2017.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Al Zahra for 11 months period.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Al Zahra with those of the Group.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, the customer service, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that Al Zahra & NMC will obtain.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable tangible assets included Building of US$86,500,000, land of US$13,500,000 and intangible assets included brands amounting to US$545,000 and software amounting to US$459,000.
No acquisition date contingent liabilities requiring full recognition have been noted as yet.
126 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Other acquisitions The Group has made several other small acquisitions during the year for which key information is provided below.
Advance Purchase Contingent Deferred Fair value of paid for Effective consideration consideration consideration intangibles acquisition Goodwill Acquiree shareholding US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Acquisitions UAE Others 100% 817 735 817 735 Acquisitions KSA As Salama Hospital LLC 70% 29,195 2,800 12,400 14,382 Al Qadi Hospital LLC 60% 16,432 3,774 13,144 45,627 2,800 16,174 27,526 Acquisitions Oman Atlas Healthcare 100% 28,259 24,089 Others 100% 885 69 797 788 29,144 69 797 24,877 Acquisitions Europe Fecunmed 80% 2,521 704 1,547 2,521 704 1,547 Total 78,109 704 2,869 16,174 797 54,685 Under others acquisitions: As of 31 December 2017, an amount of US$ 4,016,000 payable to non-controlling interest of Al Qadi Hospital was not included in purchase price allocation.
This is now corrected in current period and recorded as financial liability.
This resulted in increase in goodwill by an amount of US$ 2,410,000 and reduction of non-controlling interest by an amount of US$ 1,606,000.
Further, during the current year, out of total payable of US$ 4,016,000 to non-controlling interest, an amount of US$ 1,886,000 was converted to equity, an amount of US$ 1,564,000 was paid to non-controlling interest and US$ 566,000 was waived by non-controlling interest and transferred to retained earnings.
During the year, purchase price allocation of Al Qadi Hospital was finalised.
Fair values of property and equipment has been reduced by US$ 1,355,000, trade receivables by US$ 267,000 and increase in fair value of liabilities by US$ 130,000.
All these, resulted in decrease in net assets as of acquisition date by US$ 1,752,000.
This resulted in increase in goodwill by an amount of US$ 1,051,000 and reduction in non-controlling interest of US$ 701,000.
Advances in respect of Acquisitions: Advances paid in respect of acquisitions as of 31 December 2018 amounting to US$ 18,301,000 31 December 2017 US$ nil.
Included in this is an amount of US$ 9,529,000 in respect of contingent consideration paid in advance for an acquisition.
This amount is adjustable from contingent consideration payable to the sellers of that entity.
6 Material partly-owned subsidiaries For the year ended 31 December 2018, there are no material partly-owned subsidiaries.
7 Segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics, provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of hospitals.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 7 Segment information continued The new acquired companies businesses Aspen, CosmeSurge, Boston IVF, Aesthetics, Al Salam, Al Rashid, CCSMC, EMC, Pro-Criar, FMC, Royal RAK, CREA, Sweden IVF, Premier, AVA and Mesk come under the healthcare segment and Cytomed come under distribution segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss.
These are measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance costs and finance income relating to UAE subsidiaries are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
In addition Group overheads are also not allocated to individual segments as these are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
Adjustments and eliminations Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, convertible bond, sukuk, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment and intangible assets.
Reconciliation of Segment EBITDA to Group profit 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Segment EBITDA 556,357 406,950 Unallocated group administrative expenses 70,295 54,400 Unallocated other income 1,310 837 Unallocated finance income 5,829 7,487 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 13,124 6,794 Finance costs on borrowings 104,405 63,792 Interest on convertible bond and sukuk 16,896 Depreciation 81,569 58,107 Amortisation 18,794 12,776 Impairment of assets 2,214 3,010 Transaction costs related to business combinations 4,976 5,969 Gain from bargain purchase on acquisition 5,628 Tax 4,942 1,245 Group Profit 251,909 209,181 Reconciliation of Segment profit to Group profit 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Segment profit 457,263 335,843 Unallocated finance income 3,064 2,036 Unallocated finance costs on borrowings 94,076 55,093 Unallocated interest on convertible bond and sukuk 16,896 Unallocated group administrative expenses 70,295 54,400 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 13,124 6,794 Unallocated depreciation 1,886 1,090 Unallocated other income 1,310 837 Unallocated amortisation cost 10,796 8,123 Unallocated impairment of assets 1,783 3,010 Unallocated transaction cost 872 1,025 Group Profit 251,909 209,181 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 7 Segment information continued Reconciliation of Group assets 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Segment assets 3,453,232 2,567,004 Unallocated property and equipment 6,330 7,995 Unallocated inventory 229 215 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 19,145 16,553 Unallocated bank balances and cash 158,157 161,028 Unallocated bank deposits 235,322 184,430 Unallocated intangible assets 1,783 Group assets 3,872,415 2,939,008 Reconciliation of Group liabilities 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Segment liabilities 559,243 440,961 Unallocated term loans 953,807 1,105,524 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 1,997 4,706 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 22,291 9,109 Unallocated convertible bond and sukuk 783,009 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 168,950 207,034 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 336 1,029 Unallocated option redemption payable 26,019 26,019 Group liabilities 2,515,652 1,794,382 Other information The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution and Healthcare services Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2018 Customer 1 583,232 583,232 583,232 583,232 Year ended 31 December 2017 Customer 1 442,070 442,070 442,070 442,070 130 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Geographical information 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Revenue from external customers United Arab Emirates 1,801,295 1,474,344 United Kingdom 53,985 Spain 53,082 46,684 Others 148,891 82,368 Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 2,057,253 1,603,396 Non-current assets United Arab Emirates 1,834,226 1,528,083 United Kingdom 49,136 Spain 216,402 201,456 Others 381,159 80,965 Total non-current assets 2,480,923 1,810,504 Deferred tax assets United Arab Emirates United Kingdom 3,752 Spain 1,429 2,877 Others 613 541 Total Deferred tax assets 5,794 3,418 Analysis of revenue by category: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Revenue from services: Healthcare clinic 1,342,950 999,678 Healthcare management fees 22,911 13,016 1,365,861 1,012,694 Sale of goods: Distribution 507,383 457,153 Healthcare pharmacy 184,009 133,549 691,392 590,702 Total 2,057,253 1,603,396 Analysis of revenue by verticals: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Revenue from services: Multi-speciality & pharmacies 1,163,065 833,627 Maternity & fertility 238,124 201,139 Long term & home care 137,283 113,835 Operation & management 22,911 13,016 1,561,383 1,161,617 Sale of goods: Distribution 545,125 486,754 Eliminations: Intra-group eliminations 49,255 44,975 Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 2,057,253 1,603,396 As of 31 December 2018, transaction prices allocated to remaining performance obligation unsatisfied or partially satisfied are immaterial.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 8 Expenses by nature 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 690,191 571,953 Salary expenses 651,800 492,793 Rent expenses 100,847 76,168 Sales promotion expenses 72,998 61,349 Repair and maintenance expenses 33,341 19,840 Legal & licence fees 19,041 9,355 Electricity expenses 14,627 10,246 Insurance expenses 11,115 9,087 Recruitment expense 10,818 6,975 Motor vehicle expenses 6,415 5,093 Communication expenses 5,531 4,147 Expected credit loss of trade receivables 4,576 7,956 Professional fees expenses 4,202 4,931 Printing and stationery 3,798 3,514 IT expenses 3,070 2,472 Others 26,722 17,333 1,659,092 1,303,212 Allocated to: Direct costs 1,216,126 968,044 General and administrative expenses 442,966 335,168 1,659,092 1,303,212 The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated income statement are: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 4,976 5,969 Depreciation 81,569 58,107 Amortisation 18,794 12,776 Finance costs on borrowings 104,405 63,792 Interest on convertible bond and sukuk 16,896 Impairment of assets 2,214 3,010 Unamortised finance fees written off 13,124 6,794 241,978 150,448 9 Other income Other income includes US$ 55,309,000 2017: US$ 47,106,000 relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
This also includes an amount of US$ 6,424,000 2017: US$ nil in respect of contingent consideration which is released to consolidated income statement as relevant KPIs were not met note 39.
10 Finance costs on borrowings 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Bank interest 95,017 53,142 Bank charges 5,570 3,866 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 1,273 4,772 Amortisation and Re-measurement of option redemption liability note 40 2,545 2,012 104,405 63,792 132 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 11 Interest on bond and sukuk 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Interest on convertible bond 14,159 Interest on sukuk 2,737 16,896 12 Finance income 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Bank and other interest income 3,372 2,067 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 2,457 5,420 5,829 7,487 13 Profit for the year before tax The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 690,191 571,953 Cost of inventories written off and provided note 21 2,241 2,346 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 100,847 76,168 Depreciation note 18 81,569 58,107 Amortisation note 19 18,794 12,776 Net Impairment of accounts receivable note 22 4,576 7,956 Employees end of service benefits note 29 13,742 11,106 Net foreign exchange loss gain 1,091 550 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 107 190 Share based payments expense note 35 9,704 9,181 14 Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1,096 1,008 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2,609 902 audit related assurance services 346 258 other assurance services Tax compliances services Tax advisory services non audit services 984 891 5,035 3,059 The fees paid to the auditor includes US$ 100,000 2017: US$ 100,000 in respect of out of pocket expenses.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2018 or 2017.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 15 Staff costs and directors emoluments a Staff costs 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 589,413 445,181 Employees end of service benefits note 29 13,742 11,106 Staff medical expense 11,819 8,865 Share based payments expense note 35 9,704 9,181 Others 27,122 18,460 651,800 492,793 Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part b below.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2018 2017 Healthcare 16,974 11,215 Distribution & services 2,206 2,170 Administration 377 287 19,557 13,672 b Directors remuneration 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Directors remuneration 15,658 11,546 Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in note 35.
Included in directors remuneration is an amount of US$ 8,139,000 2017: US$ 6,115,000 in respect of cost of providing share options.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
16 Tax The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates, Spain, the UK and other jurisdictions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the estimated unused tax losses due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of approximately US$94,320,041 2017: US$46,549,000 that may be carried forward indefinitely.
Additionally the group has unrecognized Zakat losses in Saudi Arabia of US$48,712,269 which have not been recognized for deferred tax purposes.
With respect to Group operations in Europe, UK, KSA, and South America the tax disclosures are as follows: 2018 2017 Consolidated income statement US$000 US$000 Current income tax: Charge for the year 5,461 3,606 Adjustment in respect of charge for the year 13 5,474 3,606 Deferred tax: Charge on profit origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year 532 2,361 Income tax charge reported in the income statement 4,942 1,245 134 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by the Spanish domestic tax rate of 25% 2017: 24.9% is represented below: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Group accounting profit before tax from continuing operations for the year 256,851 210,426 Less: Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations not subject to tax 259,197 192,659 Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations subject to tax 2,346 17,767 Tax at the rate of 25.0 % 2017: 24.9% 586 4,416 Non-taxable dividend income 1,880 Tax saved on amortization of intangibles 591 Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax 13 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 275 87 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent differences 224 Deductible expenses for tax purpose: R&D and IT 327 543 Other deductible expenses 70 Gain not subject to tax 1,407 Losses not previously recognized for deferred tax 6,750 Income tax charged reported in the income statement 4,942 1,245 The effective tax rate of the Group is 1.92% 2017: 0.59%.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities comprise of: Deferred tax assets: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Tax credit for R&D expenses 924 1,226 Limit on tax deductibility of depreciation and amortisation 4,327 2,192 Provisions disallowed for tax 523 Others 20 Total deferred tax assets 5,794 3,418 Deferred tax liabilities: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortization 17,745 9,693 Total deferred tax liabilities 17,745 9,693 2018 2017 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net US$000 US$000 As of 1 January 6,275 6,110 Tax credit for the year 150 2,361 Adjustment to prior year business combination 5,526 1,359 Foreign exchange adjustments 1,167 As at 31 December 11,951 6,275 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable as supported by forecasts that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 17 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent US$000 248,653 185,970 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 000 for basic EPS 207,888 204,302 Effect of dilution from share based payments 000 1,401 1,538 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 for diluted EPS 209,289 205,840 Basic earnings per share US$ 1.196 0.910 Diluted earnings per share US$ 1.188 0.903 Convertible bond has anti-dilutive effect, accordingly it is not considered for the calculations of diluted EPS.
The table below reflects the income and share data used in the adjusted earnings per share computations.
Unamortized finance fees written off, transaction costs in respect of business combination, amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax, impairment of assets and gain from bargain purchase on acquisition have been adjusted from the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent to arrive at the adjusted earnings per share: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 248,653 185,970 Unamortised finance fees written off 13,124 6,794 Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 4,976 5,969 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 15,346 11,606 Impairment of assets 2,214 3,010 Gain from bargain purchase on acquisition 5,628 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 278,685 213,349 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 209,289 205,840 Diluted adjusted earnings per share US$ 1.332 1.036 Adjusted profit for the year of the Group is calculated as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 251,909 209,181 Unamortised finance fees written off 13,124 6,794 Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 4,976 5,969 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 16,946 11,606 Impairment of assets 2,214 3,010 Gain from bargain purchase on acquisition 5,628 Adjusted profit 283,541 236,560 18 Property and equipment Property and equipment consists of the following: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Property and equipment 829,900 607,092 829,900 607,092 136 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Furniture, fixtures Leasehold fittings and Capital Freehold Hospital improveMotor medical work in land building Buildings ments vehicles equipment progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2018 Cost: At 1 January 2018 32,952 235,768 27,171 184,676 13,758 312,018 35,387 841,730 Additions 5,124 231 362 11,865 3,725 51,050 87,865 160,222 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 1,076 10,787 10,526 37,198 718 79,464 11,511 151,280 Transfer from CWIP 4,659 13,856 1,588 20,103 Impairments 431 431 Reclassification 997 547 450 Exchange difference 75 311 239 30 5,556 59 6,120 Disposals 129 768 1,900 72 2,869 At 31 December 2018 39,152 250,523 37,748 247,227 17,403 437,211 114,098 1,143,362 Depreciation: At 1 January 2018 15,613 9,869 62,859 7,825 138,472 234,638 Charge for the year 7,470 1,764 23,007 2,418 46,910 81,569 Reclassification 516 376 140 Adjustment to prior year note 5 11 1,344 1,355 Exchange difference 3 108 30 1 1,564 1,706 Disposals 117 690 1,447 2,254 At 31 December 2018 22,564 11,525 85,719 9,563 184,091 313,462 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2018 39,152 227,959 26,223 161,508 7,840 253,120 114,098 829,900 Reclassification represents amounts wrongly included in hospital building for furniture and software which are now reclassified to respective categories.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease liabilities.
As part of the Groups capital expenditure programme, borrowing costs of US$ 238,000 2017: US$ nil have been capitalised during the year.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 5.09% 2017: Nil% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
Companies in the UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2018 was US$160,222,000 2017: US$63,448,000.
Of the total capital expenditure spend during the year, US$ 87,865,000 2017: US$31,392,000 related to new capital projects and US$72,357,000 2017: US$32,056,000 related to further capital investment in our existing facilities.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 18 Property and equipment continued Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, and the warehouse facilities which have leases renewable on an annual basis note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2018 US$370,000 2017: US$569,000 of the amounts included in property and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
Land with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 31 December 2017: US$4,144,000 is held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
Reclassification of US$5,056,000 in 2017 represents transfer of patient relationship incorrectly classified under brands in 2016.
138 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Goodwill Additions to goodwill in the year relate to goodwill measured in respect of the acquisitions of CosmeSurge, Boston IVF, Aesthetics, Al Salam, Al Rashid, CCSMC, EMC, Pro-Criar, FMC, Royal RAK, CREA, Sweden IVF, Premier, AVA, Mesk and Cytomed.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Group performed its annual goodwill impairment test in December 2018 and 2017.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the following operating segments representing a group of cash generating units CGUs, which are also operating and reportable segments, for impairment testing: Healthcare Distribution and services The healthcare CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$ 1,416,246,000 at the year-end 2017: US$1,052,886,000.
The distribution and services CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$ 24,045,000 at the year-end 2017: US$4,879,000.
The recoverable amounts for both CGUs are based on value in use, which has been calculated using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows from the sixth to tenth year period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2017: 3% which is significantly lower than the current annual growth rate of both CGUs.
0% growth rate is applied for cash flows beyond tenth year.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the to the cash flows of both CGUs is 9.71% 2017: 8.23%, which is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and takes into account such measures as risk free rates of return, the Groups debt equity ratio, cost of debt and local risk premiums specific to the CGUs.
As a result of the analysis, there is headroom in both CGUs and no impairment has been identified.
Reasonable sensitivities have been applied to each CGUs cash flows and the discount rates used, and in all cases the value in use continues to exceed the carrying amount of CGU goodwill.
The key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections for the six year period covered by the most recent forecasts are those related to growth in available beds, patient numbers for the healthcare segment and revenue from the distribution of products for the distribution and services segment.
The assumptions made reflect past experience and are based on managements best estimate and judgment.
Other acquired intangible assets Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Included in software are HIS and ERP projects amounting to US$ nil 2017: US$1,783,000 which are work-in-progress as of year-end.
As of 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded accumulated impairment of US$ 3,783,000 2017: US$ 2,000,000 against this.
20 Loan receivable 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Loan receivable 2,001 32,187 2,001 32,187 In 2018, the Group acquired 100% voting shares of CCSMC by utilising the loan funded in prior years amounting US$32,187,000 and additional funding US$7,024,000 during the period and accordingly loan receivable was reclassified as investment in subsidiary.
In addition, the Group, invested US$2,001,000 in a technology company through a convertible promissory note.
The note will attract interest at the rate of 6% p. a and will be repayable on demand or before 3rd March 2019.
This investment will support NMC Healthcare to have a better service offerings in the UAE.
As the instrument doesnt meet all the features of a puttable instrument to be classified as equity in the event of liquidation, we classified the above instrument as loan receivable.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 21 Inventories 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Pharma 144,511 101,096 Non pharma 94,572 73,414 Egg bank 6,023 5,083 Goods in transit 693 1,440 Other 3,635 1,516 249,434 182,549 Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 2,128 1,219 247,306 181,330 The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2018 is US$ 2,241,000 2017: US$ 2,346,000.
This is recognised in direct costs.
22 Accounts receivable and prepayments 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Accounts receivable 542,221 440,146 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 16,012 14,235 Other receivables 50,050 43,568 Prepayments 30,841 20,893 639,124 518,842 Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Other receivable includes US$13,721,000 2017 US$ 4,245,000 in respect of healthcare management fees.
Prepayments mainly includes rentals paid in advance and insurance prepayments.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$30,013,000 31 December 2017: US$15,747,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group has provided an additional provision based on IFRS 9 impact analysis US$17,231,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 15,747 12,129 IFRS 9 credit risk adjustment 17,231 At 1 January adjusted 32,978 12,129 Written off 6,383 4,382 Written back note 13 811 2,056 Reclassification 1,314 Charge for the year note 13 5,387 10,012 Exchange difference 156 44 At 31 December 30,013 15,747 Reclassification represents rejection adjustment wrongly booked under provision for doubtful debt instead of accounts receivables.
140 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due Total nor impaired 90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days 365 days US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2018 Accounts receivable 542,221 345,108 117,029 34,552 21,254 24,278 31 December 2017 Accounts receivable 440,146 279,343 86,363 34,302 24,435 15,703 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2018 accounts receivables of US$30,013,000 2017: US$15,747,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management note 36.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$ 7,346,000 31 December 2017: US$1,776,000 as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business.
Included in other receivables is an amount of US$nil 2017:US$5,245,000 receivable from entities owned by a non-controlling interest.
23 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Bank deposits 167,156 185,611 Bank balances and cash 324,027 202,002 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 168,950 207,034 322,233 180,579 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 112,056 139,086 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 112,916 69,088 Restricted cash 13,297 44,115 Cash and cash equivalents 308,076 206,462 Bank deposits of US$ 167,156,000 31 December 2017: US$ 185,611,000 are with commercial banks.
These are mainly denominated in UAE Dirhams and Euro and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 1 to 12 months 31 December 2017: 1 to 12 months.
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance purchases.
The bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings are secured by corporate Guarantees and personal guarantees of few of the major shareholders of the parent company and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4%.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 24 Share capital 31 December 2018 Number of shares Ordinary shares Share premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 208,237 32,443 633,744 666,187 31 December 2017 Number of shares Ordinary shares Share premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 204,423 31,928 492,634 524,562 Issued share capital and share premium movement Number Ordinary Share of shares shares premium Total thousands US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2018 At 1 January 2018 204,423 31,928 492,634 524,562 Issue of new shares 3,534 477 138,714 139,191 Exercise of stock option shares 280 38 2,396 2,434 At 31 December 2018 208,237 32,443 633,744 666,187 31 December 2017 At 1 January 2017 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 Exercise of stock option shares 138 18 856 874 At 31 December 2017 204,423 31,928 492,634 524,562 25 Group restructuring reserve The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$10,001,000 debit, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve.
26 Retained earnings As at 31 December 2018, retained earnings of US$ 18,806,000 2017: US$ 18,423,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
27 Dividend In the AGM on 28 June 2018 the shareholders approved a dividend of 13.0 pence per share, amounting to GBP 27,066,000 US$ 35,739,000 to be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 15 June 2018 30 June 2017: a dividend of GBP 21,753,000 equivalent to US$ 27,779,000 was approved on 23 May 2017 and paid on 1 June 2017.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 June 2019, a final dividend of 18.1 pence per share, GBP37,652,000 US$49,731,000 will be paid on 10 July 2019 to shareholders on the Companys share register on 14 June 2019.
An amount of US$ 3,103,000 was paid during the year to non-controlling interest, out of which US$ 1,334,000 pertains to previous year dividend payable and US$ 1,769,000 pertains to current years dividend.
In 2017, an amount US$ 21,160,000 was declared as dividend to non-controlling interest during the year, out of that US$5,303,000 was adjusted against related party receivable balance, US$14,523,000 was paid as dividend during the year and US$1,334,000 remained unpaid for the year ended 31 December 2017.
142 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 28 Term loans 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current portion 379,919 204,154 Non-current portion 660,835 987,840 1,040,754 1,191,994 Amounts are repayable as follows: Within 1 year 379,919 204,154 Between 1 2 years 183,372 206,942 Between 2 6 years 477,463 780,898 1,040,754 1,191,994 During the year, the Group entered a syndicated facility amounting to US$ 2.0 billion.
The syndicated facility was used to settle an existing syndicated loan and for acquisition purposes.
The facility is structured into three sub facilities, these sub facilities are completely repayable within 18-60 months.
The facility is secured against corporate guarantee provided by NMC Health Plc and its certain operating subsidiaries.
The facility carries interest at LIBOR plus margin.
In addition to the above facilities, term loans also include other long term and short-term revolving loans which get drawn down and repaid over the year.
The Group has charged an amount of US$ 13,124,000 to the consolidated income statement with respect to unamortised transaction costs of existing debts which have been settled using proceeds of new syndicate loan.
29 Post employment benefit plans Employees end of service benefits Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 48,279 30,208 Charge for the year 13,742 11,106 Actuarial gain 3,429 1 Transfer from related party 76 180 Exchange difference 4 Employees end of service benefits paid 7,954 3,447 Addition from business combinations 11,128 10,233 Balance at 31 December 61,686 48,279 Current 6,549 6,905 Noncurrent 55,137 41,374 Balance at 31 December 61,686 48,279 Charge for the year comprise of the following: Current service cost 11,916 10,173 Interest cost 1,826 933 Balance at 31 December 13,742 11,106 Management engaged an actuary to carry out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2018 and 2017, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
During the current year, the Group has recognised an actuarial gain of US$ 3,429,000 31 December 2017: gain of US$ 1,000 in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2017: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 2.25% 2017: 1.5%.
The expected liability at the date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 3.75% 2017: 2.5%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 29 Post employment benefit plans continued Defined benefit plan The Group has a defined pension benefit plan in the UK which is funded.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and salary at retirement age.
This plan is governed by the employment laws of the UK.
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss and recognised in other comprehensive income.
Net benefit expense recognized in profit or loss US$000 Service cost Net interest on net defined benefit liability asset 26 Administration expenses Past service cost 50 Impact of surplus restriction 26 Profit and loss charge 50 Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income US$000 Return less interest income on scheme assets 1,385 Remeasurement gain loss 1038 Impact of surplus restriction 26 Impact of liability future employer contributions 390 Change in unrecognised surplus 313 Loss recorded in OCI 398 As at 31 December 2018, the fair value of the schemes assets amounted to US$ 17,777,000 and the present value of its defined benefit obligations amounted to US$17,097,000.
The changes in fair value of scheme assets and in the defined benefit obligation were: Changes in fair values of scheme assets US$000 Fair value of scheme assets at start of period 20,211 Interest income on scheme assets 451 Return on schemes assets excluding interest income 1,240 Contributions by the employer 52 Benefits paid 583 Exchange rate differences 1,114 Fair value of scheme assets at end of period 17,777 Changes in the defined benefit obligation US$000 Defined benefit obligation at start of period 19,194 Service cost Interest cost on defined benefit obligation 428 Benefit paid 583 Past service costs 45 Remeasurement loss gain : Changes in financial assumptions 891 Changes in demographic assumptions 96 Experience adjustments 55 Exchange rate differences 1,055 Defined benefit obligation at end of period 17,097 144 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information The principal assumptions used in determining pension and post-employment medical benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: 31 December 2018 % per annum Discount rate 2.8 Price inflation: RPI 3.6 CPI 2.6 Deferred pension increases non-GMP 2.6 Pension increases in payment: GMPs accrued from 6 April 1988 to 5 April 1997 2.2 Non-GMPs accrued to 5 April 1997 3.0 Pensions accrued 6 April 1997 to 5 February 2001 3.0 Pensions accrued 6 February 2001 to 5 April 2005 2.6 Pensions accrued from 6 April 2005 2.0 31st December 2018 Retirements Each tranche of pension is assumed to be payable from the earliest age it can be taken without reduction or consent Mortality 100% S2PA CMI 2017 Core 1% Base table Future improvements Long term rate Commutation 25% of pension Marital Status 90% married at date of retirement or earlier death Age difference - 3 years 31 December 2018 % per annum Discount rate 2.8 Rate of price inflation: RPI 3.6 CPI 2.6 Rate of increase for non-GMP pensions in deferment 2.6 Rate of increase for pensions in payment: GMP accrued 6 April 1988 to 5 April 1997 2.2 Non-GMP accrued to 5 April 1997 3.0 Pension accrued 6 April 1997 to 5 February 2001 3.0 Pension accrued 6 February 2001 to 5 April 2005 2.6 Pension accrued from 6 April 2005 2.0 31 December 2018 % per annum Mortality: Base table 100% S2PA Future improvements CMI 2017 Long term rate Core 1% Expected future lifetime from age 65: Male currently aged 65 21.8 Female currently aged 65 23.7 Male currently aged 45 22.9 Female currently aged 45 25.0 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 30 Accounts payable and accruals 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts payable 200,123 152,811 Accrued interest 5,794 2,681 Accrued expenses 23,276 9,921 Contract liabilities 8,715 3,040 Others 79,679 41,017 317,587 209,470 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms.
Included in others is an amount of US$ 46,024,000 2017: US$ 17,596,000 in respect of lease payable.
Further it includes advances from customers, deposits payable and certain other payables.
31 Other payables 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Contingent consideration payable for acquisitions note 39 17,240 10,519 Deferred consideration payable for acquisitions 1,671 5,307 Other payable 3,584 41,268 22,495 57,094 Classification of other payables into current and non-current is as follows: Current 6,806 18,110 Non-current 15,689 38,984 22,495 57,094 Post-dated cheques liability and related indemnified asset recognized on acquisition of Fakih IVF in 2016 has been reversed during the year, as both liability and indemnified asset were relating to Fakih Medical Center which has become now part of the Group.
Carrying value of the liability and asset as of 31 December 2017 was US$ 40,068,000.
It was classified as other liabilities and other assets in previous year.
32 Finance lease liability The Group has finance leases for various items of property and equipment.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: 2018 2017 Present Present Minimum value of Minimum value of payments payments payments payments US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Within one year 2,176 1,684 After one year but not more than five years 3,788 2,926 More than five years 94 69 Total minimum lease payments 6,058 4,679 Less amounts representing finance charges 1,379 Present value of minimum lease payments 4,679 4,679 146 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 33 Convertible bond and sukuk Convertible bond At 31 December 2018, there were 2,250 convertible bond units in issue.
Each bond has a par value of US$ 200,000.
The bonds carry a coupon rate of 1.875% per annum, payable half-yearly in arrears on 30 April and 31 October.
The bonds were issued on 30 April 2018.
Unless the bondholders exercise the option to convert to shares, bond will be redeemed by cash on 02 May 2023 or maturity.
The bonds are convertible at any time between 11 June 2018 and their maturity date, 02 May 2025 into a fixed number of ordinary shares of the parent of the Group on the basis of a fixed exchange price of US$ 72.7301.
The convertible bonds are separated into liability and equity components based on the terms of the contract.
As of 31 December 2018, the fair value of the liability component is US$ 387,664,000 net of transaction costs is recorded as liability and residual amount of US$ 66,034,000 recorded as equity component.
Sukuk On 21 November 2018, the Group issued US$400,000,000 Sukuk certificates Islamic finance with maturity for payment on 2023.
Sukuk carry a profit rate of 5.950%, payable half-yearly in arrears on 21 May and 21 November.
34 Related party transactions These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom two are directors of the Company and who together have the ability to control the Company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
Relationship agreement The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings.
This entitlement reduces or is removed as the collective shareholdings reduce.
The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC management personnel in NMC.
Sales 149 40 Purchases of healthcare inventory 130,106 78,778 Rent charged 288 353 Other income 5,082 1,883 Management fees 10,700 1,776 Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Amounts due to related parties 47,737 28,472 Amounts due from related parties 7,346 1,776 Purchase of healthcare inventory are made at a price fixed by the regulator.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 34 Related party transactions continued Relationship agreement continued Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term and carried interest at 0% 31 December 2017: 0% per annum.
Pharmacy licenses in UAE under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
Compensation of key management personnel 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Short term benefits 18,656 15,142 Employees end of service benefits 47 24 18,703 15,166 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the three 31 December 2017: three Executive Directors and four 31 December 2017: four senior management personnel.
During the year additional shares of 232,601 amounting to US$ 9,385,000 31 December 2017: 833,284 shares amounting to US$ 18,725,000 were granted to Executive Directors and other senior management in the form of share options.
One individual 31 December 2017: one who is a related party of one of the shareholders is employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by that related party in the year ended 31 December 2018 amounts to US$ 2,729,000 31 December 2017: US$2,286,000.
As discussed in Note 5, on 18 January 2018, the Group agreed to acquire 70% controlling stake of CosmeSurge, Aesthetic and Wellness from a related party who is also an executive director in the Company.
CosmeSurge, Aesthetic and Wellness are an industry leader in the UAE in providing quality cosmetic surgery and aesthetic medicine.
The agreed arms length purchase consideration for these entities was US$170m which has been fully paid during the year and was determined based on valuation done by the management.
In 2018 asset held for sale was sold for a consideration of US$ 9,244,000 to a related party note 42.
Land with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 31 December 2017: US$4,144,000 is held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group Note 18.
35 Share based payments The Group currently operates two share option schemes: Long term incentive plan LTIP Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The exercise prices are nil.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years.
The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Annual Report.
Short term incentive plan STIP Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of 3 years.
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model.
Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period since the Companys shares have been publicly traded.
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$ 9,704,000 2017: US$ 9,181,000 in respect of the cost of providing share options.
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
148 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2018, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2018 2017 STIP STIP Share price at grant date 33.620 20.740 Fair value at measurement date 33.499 20.425 Exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% Expected option life 1-2 years 2 years Expected dividend yield 0.36% 0.51% Risk free interest rate 2.42% 1.57% 2018 2017 2017 LTIP LTIP LTIP2 Share price at grant date 33.620 16.330 27.390 Fair value at measurement date 33.259 16.082 27.088 Exercise price nil nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.36% 0.51% 0.37% Risk free interest rate 2.42% 1.49% 1.38% Share prices at grant date are the closing prices as of those dates.
LTIP represent long term incentive plans and STIP represent short term incentive plans issued in March 2018.
The options existing at the year-end were as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Exercise Number of Exercise shares price shares price Period when exercisable Long term incentive plan LTIP Oct-14 60,292 nil 60,292 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Short term incentive plan STIP Oct-14 20,165 nil 20,165 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Long term incentive plan LTIP Feb-15 69,615 nil 221,539 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Short term incentive plan STIP Feb-15 25,240 nil 74,801 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Long term incentive plan LTIP Sep-15 23,011 nil 49,309 nil 09 09 18 to 08 09 25 Long term incentive plan LTIP Mar-16 383,717 nil 383,717 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Short term incentive plan STIP Mar-16 68,151 nil 68,151 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Long term incentive plan LTIP Jan-17 334,634 nil 562,323 nil 27 01 20 to 26 01 27 Short term incentive plan STIP May-17 54,705 nil 150,435 nil 09 05 18 to 08 05 27 Long term incentive plan LTIP Sep-17 120,526 nil 120,526 nil 07 09 20 to 06 09 27 Long term incentive plan LTIP Mar-18 46,219 nil nil nil 08 03 21 to 08 03 28 Short term incentive plan STIP Mar-18 186,382 nil nil nil 08 03 19 to 08 03 28 Total options subsisting on existing ordinary shares 1,392,657 1,711,258 Percentage of issued share capital 0.70% 0.80% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 35 Share based payments continued Short term incentive plan STIP continued Movement of share options during the year is as follows: 2018 2017 At 1 January 1,711,258 1,013,822 Vested in lieu of dividend 2,047 2,290 Granted during the year 232,601 833,284 Exercised during the year 275,646 138,138 Lapsed during the year 227,689 Outstanding at 31 December 1,442,571 1,711,258 No options expired or forfeited during the year 2017: nil.
36 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans, convertible bond, sukuk and borrowings, contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries, put option redemption liability and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations and acquisitions.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
These risks and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are consistent with last year.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk includes risk on the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries in Spain and certain other countries.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management is of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Effect on profit at Effect on profit at Increase decrease 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 in basis points US$000 US$000 100 18,302 12,134 100 18,302 12,134 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business in the GCC, the majority of the Groups customers are insurance companies.
The largest insurance company in GCC is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies in the GCC are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to healthcare customers in markets other than GCC by requesting certain percentage of advance payments from customers and obtaining final payments before completion of treatment.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
150 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 AAA-1 Aa3 411 A A1 2,709 A A2 162 A A-1 55,074 33,188 A3 A- 2,123 2,258 A-2 13,381 22,857 AAA A-1 8,371 95,859 A2 P-1 22,020 15,264 A-3 P-2 15,417 11,465 BB 191 1,505 BB B 2 1,404 Baa2 356 55 P-3 315,653 142,748 BBB 6,878 BBB- 567 BBB Ba1 Baa1 P-2 3,156 499 Caa1 B3 2,198 Without external credit rating 49,996 49,199 Total bank deposit and cash at bank 488,860 386,106 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 36 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction risk, statement of financial position risk and the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable, put option redemption payable and certain other payables denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Saudi Riyal.
As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The table below indicates the impact of Groups foreign currency monetary liabilities and assets at 31 December, on its profit before tax.
2018 2017 US$000 US$000 5% 4,199 2,460 -5% 4,199 2,460 The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group has recorded a foreign currency exchange loss of US$9,512,000 2017: Gain of US$15,304,000 on the translation of foreign subsidiaries in other comprehensive income.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, convertible bond equity component, reserves and retained earnings is measured at US$ 1,303,782,000 as at 31 December 2018 2017: US$ 1,089,716,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,209,704 1,399,028 Accounts payable and accruals 317,587 209,470 Convertible bond and Sukuk 783,009 Finance lease liability 4,679 Other payable 22,495 57,094 Option redemption payable 46,198 38,747 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 491,183 387,613 Net debt and Payables 1,892,489 1,316,726 Capital 1,303,782 1,089,716 Capital and net debt 3,196,271 2,406,442 Gearing ratio 59% 55% 37 Contingent liabilities The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2018 of US$ 26,411,000 2017: US$ 18,209,000.
152 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 38 Commitments Capital commitments The Group had future capital commitments of US$ 31,774,000 at 31 December 2018 2017: US$ 5,723,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
Other commitments 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 17,404 12,888 After one year but not more than five years 71,427 57,916 More than five years 80,233 54,023 Total 169,064 124,827 39 Financial instruments carried at fair value Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions done in current and prior year.
Movements in contingent consideration payable are as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 10,519 24,139 Contingent consideration recognised at acquisition note 5 14,604 704 Fair value measurement 1,176 133 Unused amount reversed note 9 6,424 Exchange gain loss 272 862 Payments made 2,363 15,053 Balance at 31 December 17,240 10,519 In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a level 3 derivative financial instrument.
The fair value of outstanding contingent consideration as at the reporting date is US$ 17,240,000 2017: US$ 10,519,000.
The valuation technique used for measurement of contingent consideration is the weighted average probability method and then applying discounting.
Contingent consideration payable as of 31 December 2018 comprises of following: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Sweden 7,266 Premier 2,908 FMC 696 Cytomed 3,774 Biogenesi 1,117 3,391 ProVita 3,298 Fakih 3,126 Fecunmed 735 704 Royal RAK 744 17,240 10,519 Sweden Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of EBITDA targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used are EBITDA and discount rate 10.0%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$8745,000 and its present value is US$7,266,000.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$124,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$128,000.
Management believe EBITDA targets for FY 2018 FY 2021 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Premier Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of 2019 net profit targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used are profit before tax, multiple of 8 and discount rate 11%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$2,922,000 and its present value is US$2,908,000.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$23,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$24,000.
Management believe profit before tax targets for FY 2019 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 39 Financial instruments carried at fair value continued Contingent consideration continued FMC Contingent consideration is payable subject to collection of acquisition date receivables within 6 months.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$5,736,000 of which US$5,041,000 is already collected till July and hence management believes that the above targets will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Cytomed Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of EBITDA targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used are EBITDA and discount rate 13.5%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$4,083,000 and its present value is US$3,774,000.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$21,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$21,000.
Management believe EBITDA targets for FY 2018 FY 2019 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Biogenesi Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of profit before tax target.
Significant unobservable inputs used are profit before tax and discount rate 10.7%.
Contingent consideration amounting to US$ 2,362,000 on achieving 2017 EBITDA target has been paid during the year.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$3,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$3,000 Management believe profit before tax targets for FY 2018 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Fecunmed Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used are revenue targets and discount rate 9.2%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$916,000 and its present value is US$735,000.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$16,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$17,000.
Management believe profit before revenue targets for FY 2020 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Royal RAK Contingent consideration is payable subject to collection of 30 September 2017 receivables.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$1,154,000 of which US$394,000 is already collected and paid during the reporting period.
Management believes that the above targets will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Provita and Fakih The contingent consideration in relation to Provita and Fakih were reversed as the conditions KPIs were not met and the amounts were not payable.
40 Option redemption payable Option redemption payable comprise of the following: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Luarmia 26,019 26,019 CFC and HCMR 13,624 11,874 Fecunmed 633 854 Sweden 4,227 ProCriar 1,695 46,198 38,747 Movement in option redemption payable is as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 38,747 37,500 Addition 6,889 854 Other adjustment 2,398 Re-measurement of liability note 10 2,545 2,012 Exchange gain loss 1,983 779 Balance at 31 December 46,198 38,747 154 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Other adjustment relates to re-measurement done for put option liability for Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, S A HCMR acquired in 2016.
This adjustment was done within twelve month period of acquisition date and was accordingly credited to equity.
Classification of option redemption payables into current and non-current is as follows: 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Current 26,019 26,019 Non-current 20,179 12,728 46,198 38,747 Luarmia As part of acquisition of Luarmia SL Luarmia in 2015, the Group entered into separate co-investment shareholder agreements dated 23 February 2015 with the sellers relating to put & call options on the minority 11.6% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 11.6% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and continue to account for the acquisition of Luarmia on the basis of an 88.4% equity stake, with full recognition of the 11.6% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2018, 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 three exercisable windows.
On exercise of the put options, cash will be paid.
The value of the put option is calculated based on the multiple of purchase price and further multiples are measured on the number of reproductive cycles specified in the agreement.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$24,496,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2018, the present value of the redemption liability is US$ 26,019,000.
The key assumption in estimating the expected amount is the multiple of purchase price and reproductive cycles projections.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions for example a 10% increase in reproductive cycles will result in an increase in the financial liability by US$ 3,333,000 2017: US$ 1,545,400, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability by US$ 1,887,000 2017: US$ 1,544,000.
CFC and HCMR In 2016, Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Brazil and Denmark entities.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$11,216,000 and US$1,585,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2018, the present value of the redemption liability is US$12,221,000 and US$1,402,000 respectively.
During the year Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Sweden and ProCriar.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$4,417,000 and US$2,472,000 respectively.
The present value of the redemption liability as on 31 December 2018 was US$4,227,000 and US$1,695,000 respectively.
The put option of HCMR is exercisable any time starting from the third anniversary and 36 months thereafter.
The earliest date of exercise is September 2019.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the year 2018 and 2019 and projected net debt of 2019.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA and Net Debt.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$415,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$415,000.
The put option for CFC is exercisable from the fifth anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is June 2021.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2020.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$200,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$200,000.
Fecunmed The put option for Fecunmed is exercisable from the third anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is 31 December 2020.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$854, 000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2018, the present value of the redemption liability is US$633,000 The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2020.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$64,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$64,000.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2018 40 Option redemption payable continued Sweden During the year Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Sweden.
The put option for Sweden is exercisable from the fifth anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is 07 June 2023.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$4,418,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2018, the present value of the redemption liability is US$4,227,000.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2022.
ProCriar During the year Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of ProCriar.
The put option for ProCriar is exercisable from the third anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is 05 February 2021.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$2,471,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2018, the present value of the redemption liability is US$1,695,000.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2021.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$340,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$309,000.
41 Fair values of financial instruments The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are disclosed in note 37.
During the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
42 Asset classified as held for sale 2018 2017 US$000 US$000 Asset classified as held for sale 3,693 3,693 Asset held for sale represents investment made in a healthcare project.
During the year, the Group paid an amount of US$ 5,530,000 for the project.
Subsequently in 2018, the investment was sold for a consideration of US$ 9,244,000 to a related party note 34.
156 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information 43 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Equity Forex component 01 January Cash exchange convertible 31 December 2018 Cash Inflow outflow movement bond Others 2018 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Term Loans Current and Non-current portion 1,191,994 1,532,570 1,700,751 2,412 19,353 1,040,754 Bank overdrafts and Other short-term borrowings 207,034 311,011 338,173 10,922 168,950 Dividend payable 1,334 1,334 Convertible bond and sukuk 850,000 64,960 2,031 783,009 Finance lease liability 633 5,312 4,679 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,400,362 2,693,581 2,040,891 2,412 64,960 11,712 1,997,392 Equity Forex component 01 January Cash exchange convertible 31 December 2017 Cash Inflow Outflow movement bond Others 2017 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Term Loans Current and Non-current portion 829,299 671,353 319,111 6,417 4,036 1,191,994 Bank overdrafts and Other short-term borrowings 219,851 351,775 373,318 8,726 207,034 Dividend payable 1,334 1,334 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,049,150 1,023,128 692,429 6,417 14,096 1,400,362 The Others column includes the effect of amortisation of transaction costs, additions in interest-bearing loans from business combination and accrual of dividend that were not yet paid at the year-end.
The Group classifies interest paid as cash flow from operating activities.
44 Subsequent events The Group signed the definitive documents on 04 March 2019 to form a strategic partnership in healthcare with Hassana Investment Company Hassana, the investment arm of the General Organization for Social Insurance GOSI in Saudi Arabia.
The General Organization for Social Insurance is one of the largest pension funds in the world by assets under management.
It is a government administered pension fund covering private sector employees in Saudi Arabia.
All commercial terms and agreements have been finalised between NMC Healthcare LLC NMC and Hassana, with both parties working towards customary closing requirements.
The strategic partnership is formed by NMC Healthcare Saudi Arabia Company NMC KSA contribution of its five subsidiaries in Saudi Arabia KSA and an additional cash injection at closing, and GOSIs contribution of 38.88% stake in Tadawul-listed National Medical Care Company Care at an agreed price per share.
At the closing of the transaction, NMC will own 52% stake through the combination of asset contribution and cash injection and GOSI through a wholly-owned subsidiary vehicle will own 48% stake.
NMC will have the control of the above strategic partnership.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157
