com means the Groups premium beauty ISA UK & Ireland means International Net Finance Costs means finance income online store in collaboration with Marie Claire and Standard on Auditing in the UK and Ireland.
Finance income is composed Time Inc. principally of bank interest and other interest.
John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent Finance cost is composed of interest on bank loans Fetch.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated online company of Waitrose, incorporated in the UK with and overdrafts, interest on finance leases and pet store.
registered number 233462 whose registered office is interest on other financing arrangements.
Financial Period means the 52-week period, or Non-Executive Directors means the non- 53-week period where relevant, ending the closest JSOS means the Groups Joint Share Ownership executive Directors of the Company designated as Sunday to 30 November.
It comprises three issues called JSOS1, such on page 61.
Financial Year or FY see Financial Period.
Notice of Meeting means the notice of the KPI means key performance indicators.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
Kroger means The Kroger Co. a company Ocado.
com means the Groups online retail GAAP means generally accepted accounting incorporated in the USA, whose registered office is business.
at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
GDPR means General Data Protection Ocado Council means the Ocado forum used to LIBOR means the London Interbank Offered Regulation.
GHG means greenhouse gas es.
Ocado Smart Platform or OSP means the endListing Rules means the Listing Rules made to-end solution for operating online in the grocery by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the GIP means the Growth Incentive Plan.
market, which has been developed by the Group.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as GMDC means the General Merchandise amended.
Ocado Solutions means the Groups Solutions Distribution Centres in Welwyn Garden City and business.
Erith, dedicated highly automated warehouses LPP means Low Price Promise, the Ocado used for the operation of the business.
vouchering scheme which entitles customers to OPW means orders per week.
receive discount vouchers where their shopping GPP means the Ocado Group Pension Plan.
Other Income means primarily revenue basket has cost more than it would have at selected for advertising services provided by Ocado to A competitors.
Gross Sales means sales net of returns, suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, including charges for delivery, before deducting LTIP means the Companys Long Term Incentive commission income and sublease payments.
Other relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
Plan for Executive Directors and selected senior income is recognised in the period to which it Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off managers.
relates on an accruals basis.
coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multibuy Management Committee means senior Participants means eligible staff who participate offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
management responsible for managing the day-toin one of the Companys staff share schemes.
This includes sales from ocado.
co. uk, day operations of the business.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus MHE means mechanical handling equipment.
dated 6 July 2010 prepared in connection with the Group means Ocado Group plc, its subsidiaries, Companys Admission.
significant undertakings and affiliated companies MHE JVCo means MHE JVCo Limited, a company under its control or common control.
incorporated in the UK with registered number R&D means Research and Development.
8576462, whose registered office is at Buildings 1 & 2 Revenue means online sales net of returns HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Trident Place, Hatfield Business Park, Mosquito Way, through the Webshop and Ocado on the Go, IAS means International Accounting Standard s. Hatfield AL10 9UL.
MHE JVCo is jointly owned by a including charges for delivery, but excluding Group subsidiary and Morrisons.
relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
The ICA means ICA Group, a company incorporated Morrisons means Wm Morrison Supermarkets recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees charged in Sweden whose registered office is at PLC, a company incorporated in the UK with to Morrisons and other solutions clients are also Svetsarvgen 16, Solna.
registered number 353949, whose registered office included in Revenue.
Relevant vouchers and offers IFRIC means International Financial Reporting is at Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, West include money-off coupons, conditional spend Standards Interpretations Committee.
vouchers and multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
IFRS means International Financial Reporting Morrisons.
com means Morrisons online retail Standard s. business.
IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Financials.
indd 227 05-Feb-19 2:08:45 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 228 Glossary Senior Secured Notes or Notes USDAW means the Union of Shop, Distributive means the Companys offering of 250 million and Allied Workers.
Senior Secured Notes due 2024 at a coupon of 4% VCP - means the Companys Value Creation Plan for and an issue price of 100%.
For more details, see Executive Directors.
Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company Shareholder means a holder for the time being incorporated in the UK with registered number of ordinary shares in the Company.
00099405, whose registered office is at 171 Victoria Sharesave Scheme or SAYE Scheme means the Street, London SW1E 5NN.
Ocado employee savings-related share option plan Webshop means the customer facing internetapproved by HMRC.
based virtual shop accessible via the websites www.
SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated online kitchen and dining store.
SKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each line of stock.
Smart Pass previously Saving Pass means the Ocado pre-pay membership scheme which includes the delivery pricing scheme previously known as Delivery Pass and the discount membership scheme formerly known as Saving Pass.
Sobeys - means Sobeys Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Empire Company Limited incorporated in Canada whose registered office is at 115 King Street, Stellarton, Nova Scotia.
Sourcing Agreement means the various sourcing and branding agreements between Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for the intermediate handling of customers orders.
Substitution means an alternative product provided in place of the original product ordered by a customer.
TSR means total shareholder return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
UPH means average units processed per labour hour.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
