ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 226 Glossary 229 Alternative Performance Measures 231 Five Year Summary 232 Financial Calendar 232 Company Information Ocado AR2018 Financials.
indd 225 05-Feb-19 2:08:44 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Additional Information 226 Glossary 2014 ESOS means the Ocado 2014 Executive Casino - means Casino Guichard Perrachon SA, a Distribution Costs means all the costs incurred, Share Option Scheme.
company incorporated in France whose registered excluding product costs, to the point of sale, office is at 24 Rue fide la Montat, Saint-Etienne.
This includes the 2018 Code means the UK Corporate Governance payroll-related expenses for the picking, dispatch Code published by the FRC in July 2018.
Cash LTIP means the Companys cash-based and delivery of product sold to the point of sale, Long-Term Incentive Plan for senior employees.
the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, Active Customers means customers who have tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the operating costs shopped with Ocado in the previous 12 weeks.
Chairmans Share Matching Award - means a oneof the properties required for the picking, dispatch off award of shares to Lord Rose, made in May 2013.
Administrative Expenses means all IT and onward delivery operations and all associated costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code depreciation, amortisation and impairment employment costs of all head office functions, published by the FRC in April 2016. charges, call centre costs and payment processing which include legal, finance, human resources, charges.
Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006. marketing and procurement, rent and other property-related costs for the head office, all fees Dobbies means Dobbies Garden Centres Company means Ocado Group plc, a company for professional services and the depreciation, Limited, a company incorporated in Scotland incorporated in England and Wales with registered amortisation and impairment associated with head with registered number SC010975 whose number 07098618 whose registered office is at office IT equipment, software, fixtures and fittings registered office is at Melville Nurseries, Buildings 1 & 2 Trident Place, Hatfield Business Park, and expenses relating to the Groups share schemes.
Admission means the admission of the ordinary Corporate Website means www.
DPV means deliveries per van per week.
shares of the Company to the premium listing com.
A EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure segment of the Official List and to trading on the which Ocado has defined as earnings before net CR means Corporate Responsibility.
London Stock Exchanges main market for listed finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, securities which occurred on 26 July 2010.
CSTM means Customer Service Team Member, A impairment and exceptional items.
the title given to our customer facing delivery AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the EBT as relating to the Income Statement, means drivers.
Company, which will be held on 1 May 2019 at 10 earnings before tax.
As relating to share schemes, am at The London Stock Exchange Building, 10 Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means a means employee benefit trust.
dedicated highly automated warehouse used for the operation of the business.
The CFCs are: CFC1 EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to American Depositary Receipts means securities in Hatfield, CFC2 in Dordon, CFC3 in Andover and time of the employee benefit trust established for that have been created to permit US investors to CFC4 in Erith.
the purposes of the JSOS, currently Estera Trust hold shares in non-US companies and, in a Level 1 Jersey Limited.
programme, to trade them on the over-the-counter Deloitte means Deloitte LLP, the Groups market in the United States.
EPS means earning per share.
statutory auditor or the Groups advisers in respect of non-audit services.
Annual Incentive Plan or AIP means the ESOS means the HMRC-approved Ocado 2001 Executive Director incentive plan for the Group Executive Share Option Scheme and the Ocado Directors means the Directors of the Company applicable to a particular financial year.
2001 Non-HMRC approved Executive Share Option whose names and biographies are set out on page Scheme.
61 or the Directors of the Companys subsidiaries Articles means the articles of association of the from time to time as the context may require.
Exceptional Items means items that due to Directors Remuneration Policy means the their material and non-recurring nature have been Beauty MIP means the management incentive Directors remuneration policy that the Company classified separately in order to draw them to the plan for key management of Marie Claire Beauty which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 attention of the reader of the financial statements.
annual general meeting and which is set out on Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Luke Board means the Board of Directors of the pages 107 to 129.
Jensen, Neill Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown, Mark Company or its subsidiaries from time to time as the Richardson.
2019 Directors Remuneration Policy or 2019 context may require.
Policy means the Directors remuneration Bon Preu - means Bon Preu SA, a company policy that will be put forward for approval by incorporated in Spain whose registered office is at shareholders at the 2019 AGM and which is set out Carrer C, 17, 08040 Barcelona.
Brexit means the UKs decision to leave the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency European Union following the referendum on Rules means the disclosure guidance and 23 June 2016. transparency rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
