Our Financials 229 Alternative Performance Measures The Group assesses its performance using a variety of alternative Exceptional Items performance measures which are not defined under IFRS and are therefore The Groups Consolidated Income Statement separately identifies trading termed non-GAAP measures.
These measures provide additional useful results before exceptional items.
The Directors believe that presentation information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the of the Groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the Group.
The non-GAAP measures we used are: Groups financial performance.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and reported 52 Week Comparative for the 2017 Financial Year: to the Board and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading Gross Sales: results of the Group.
This also facilitates comparison with prior periods to Segment Revenue: assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Exceptional Items: The Group applies judgement in identifying significant non-recurring Segment Administrative Costs and Distribution Costs: items of income and expense that are recognised as exceptional to help EBITDA: provide an indication of the Groups underlying business.
In determining whether an event or transaction is exceptional in nature, management Segment EBITDA: considers quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency External Gross Debt: and or predictability of occurrence.
Net Cash Debt Examples of items that the Group considers exceptional include, but are A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest measure not limited to, material costs relating to the opening of a new warehouse, prepared in accordance with IFRS is presented below.
The alternative corporate reorganisations, material litigation, and any material costs, performance measures used may not be directly comparable with similarly outside of the normal course of business as determined by management.
titled measures used by other companies.
Exceptional items are disclosed in note 2.8 to the consolidated financial 52 Week Comparative for the 2017 Financial Year statements.
As a predominately retail business, the business has a 53 week financial year every 56 years.
The business have removed the last trading week of Segment Administrative Costs and Distribution the 2017 financial year to aid comparability for the users.
These comparable Costs numbers are highlighted throughout the report.
Segment distribution and administrative costs are measures which seek to reflect the performance of the Groups segments in relation to the Gross Sales long-term sustainable growth of the Group.
These measures exclude the Gross Sales is a measure of reported revenue before excluding value impact of certain costs that are not allocated to a segment: depreciation, added tax and relevant vouchers and offers.
Gross Sales is a common amortisation, impairment and other central costs.
measure used by investors and analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies within the retail sector.
A reconciliation from reported distribution and administrative costs, the most directly comparable IFRS measures, to the segment distribution and A reconciliation from reported revenue to Gross Sales can be found in note administrative costs, is set out below.
2.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
2018 2017 Segment Revenue Revenue Retail Revenue m m Solutions Retail distribution and administrative Segment revenue is a measure of reported revenue for the Groups Retail costs 401.9 356.1 and Solutions segments.
A reconciliation of revenue for the segments Solutions distribution and administrative to revenue for the Group can be found in note 2.2 to the consolidated costs 140.7 115.1 Unsegmented distribution and financial statements.
administrative costs 109.8 80.7 652.4 551.9 Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Financials.
