STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
The amounts recognised are at fair value at acquisition date.
As at 30 As at 30 Setptember Setptember 2018 2017 m m CGU Acquisitions Core On the Beach Travel Limited 21.5 21.5 Core Sunshine.
co. uk Limited 10.1 10.1 B2B Classic Collection Holidays Limited 8.0 - 39.6 31.6 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired through Sunshine.
co. uk has been allocated to the core cash generating units it operates from the same internal infrastructure as the core segement.
Core and Sunshine are internally reported and managed as one entity.
Goodwill acquired through the Classic Collection acquisition has been allocated to the Classic cash generating unit.
Core CGU The Group performed its annual impairment test as at 30 September 2018 on the core cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined based on the value in use calculations using cash flow projections derived from financial budgets and projections covering a five year period.
The initial three years grow 10 percent 2017: 20 percent over the period, years four and five are extrapolated at a growth rate of 5 percent 2017: 5 percent : the forecasts are then extrapolated in perpetuity based on an estimated growth rate of 2 percent 2017: 2 percent, this being the Directors estimated view of the long term compound growth in the economy.
This is deemed appropriate because the CGU is considered to be a long term business.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to this CGU.
The discount rate applied is 13.5 percent 2017: 11 percent.
B2B CGU The Group performed its annual impairment test as at 30 September 2018 on the B2B cash generating unit CGU.
The initial five years grow 2 percent over the period, the forecasts are then extrapolated in perpetuity based on an flat growth rate.
The discount rate applied is 13.5 percent.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include the level of sales and administrative expenses within the business and have been set by the Directors based on their past experience of the business and its industry, together with their expectations of the market.
The level of sales depends upon the size of the markets in which the Group operates together with the Directors estimations of its market share and competitive pressures, including the level of supplier overrides.
The International CGU has been internally developed and as such, has no goodwill.
Administrative expenses are dependent upon the net costs to the business of purchasing services.
Expenses are based on the current cost base of the Group adjusted for variable costs.
Development costs Capitalised development costs are not treated as a realised loss for the purpose of determining the Companys distributable profits as the costs meet the conditions requiring them to be treated as an asset in accordance with IAS 38.
Additions in the year relate to domain name acquisition costs and the development of software.
The amortisation period for website development costs is 3 years straight line.
Domain names are amortised over 10 years.
Amortisation has been recognised within operating expenses.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Sensitivity analysis has been completed on key assumptions in isolation, and the headroom taken is significant.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
116 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
