Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements aa Non statutory measures One of the Groups KPIs is adjusted profit before tax.
When reviewing profitability, the Directors use an adjusted PBT in order to give a meaningful year-on-year comparison.
Whilst we recognise that the measure is an alternative non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles non-GAAP performance measure which is also not defined within IFRS, this measure is important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
Adjusted Profit before tax is calculated by adding back those material items of income and expenditure where because of the nature and expected infrequency of events giving rise them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders a better understanding of the financial performance in the period.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Groups accounting policies have been set by management.
The application of these accounting policies to specific scenarios requires reasonable estimates and assumptions to be made concerning the future.
These are continually evaluated based on historical experience and expectations of future events.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
Under IFRSs estimates or judgements are considered critical where they involve a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities from period to period.
This may be because the estimate or judgement involves matters which are highly uncertain, or because different estimation methods or assumptions could reasonably have been used.
Critical accounting judgements Principal vs Agent Determining whether an entity is acting as a principal or as an agent requires judgement and has a significant effect on the timing and amount gross or net basis of revenue recognised by the Group.
Management have carefully considered the agency status of each of its operational segments against the criteria set within IAS 18 and have concluded that both the Core and International segments are agents and that Classic segment is a principal.
As an agent revenue is recognised at the point of booking on a net basis.
As a principal revenue is recognised on a gross basis at the point when the customer depart for their holiday.
Critical accounting estimates Valuation of intangible assets arising on acquisition The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
To determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities management sought the assistance of an independent professional advisor, however to a considerable extent, these advisors are reliant on information and forecasts prepared by management.
Management have prepared the forecasts using assumptions based on historical evidence and their extensive knowledge and experience of the market.
In determining the fair value of the separately identifiable assets, the following valuation approach and assumptions have been used: Intangible considered Valuation approach Key assumptions Customer relationships - agents Multi period excess earnings method 2% revenue growth, discount rate of 13.5%, 10% attrition rate Customer relationships - individuals Multi period excess earnings method 2% revenue growth, discount rate of 14% 1% premium, 20% attrition rate Brand Relief from royalty 13.5% 0.5% premium, 1% royalty rate Software Replacement cost No premium for opportunity costs The resulting calculation is sensitive to the the assumptions in respect of future cash flows, attrition rates and the royalty rate used.
The Directors believe that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows and royalty rate used.
106 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
