STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder Information Registered Office 5 Adair Street, Company Secretary Manchester Kirsteen Vickerstaff M1 2NQ 5 Adair Street, United Kingdom Manchester M1 2NQ Tel: c o FTI Consulting on 020 3727 1000 United Kingdom Web: www.
co. uk UK Corporate Brokers Numis Securities Limited Investor relations: corporate@onthebeach.
co. uk 10 Paternoster Row London EC4M 7LT Cautionary statement The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide Independent auditors information to the members of the Company.
The KPMG LLP Company and its Directors accept no liability to third 8 Princes Parade parties in respect of this Annual Report save as would Liverpool arise under English law.
L3 1QH This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of the Company.
Forward looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or Registrar such words as anticipates, aims, due, will, could, Link Asset Services may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, The Registry targets, goal or estimates.
These forward-looking 34 Beckenham Road statements involve risk and uncertainty because they Beckenham relate to events and depend on circumstances that Kent may or may not occur in the future.
BR3 4TU There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including factors outside the Companys Corporate solicitors control.
The forward-looking statements reflect the Addleshaw Goddard LLP knowledge and information available at the date One Peters Square of preparation of this Annual Report and will not Manchester be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual M2 3DE Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate PR advisers FTI Consulting 200 Aldersgate Aldersgate Street London EC1A 4HD ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 139
