Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 30 September 2018 1.
General Information On the Beach Group plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 139.
Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling m because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
b Going concern The financial results relating to the Group have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
c New standards, amendments and interpretations The following Adopted IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the effect of these standards on the financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers European Union effective date 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
Our initial impact assessment of IFRS 15 included a systematic review to ensure the new standard is fully understood in advance of the effective date.
Management have concluded that there will be no material impact upon adoption of this standard on either revenue from customers or overrides from suppliers.
With respect to revenue from customer bookings, management believes adopting IFRS 15 will have no material impact because of the following: For customer bookings made as agent, the group performance obligations, to make the travel arrangements on behalf of the customer, will be met once the booking has been confirmed to them, this is at the same point under IAS 18.
For customer bookings made as principal, the Group will recognise revenue once it has fulfiled its performance obligations to provide the package holiday.
This is at the same point under IAS 18.
With respect to revenue from supplier overrides, management believes adopting IFRS 15 will have no material impact.
For the majority, according to the override agreement, the Groups performance obligations are met and overrides are earned when the customer has booked.
Although we do not consider there will be a material impact upon adoption of the standard, we will continue to monitor adoption in the travel industry as we progress towards the date of adoption.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments European Union effective date 1 January 2018 The revised standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and introduces new guidance for classification and measurement, impairment of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
On the basis of our initial impact assessment our view of the new standard is that we expect there to be no material impact upon adoption of this standard.
The new standard represents a more principle-based standard.
This is not expected to impact the Groups ability to hedge account, although there will be additional disclosures required to complement its principle-based approach.
IFRS 16 Leases European Union effective date 1 January 2019 IFRS 16, Leases provides guidance on the classification, recognition and measurement of leases to help provide useful information to the users of financial statements.
The main aim of this standard is to ensure material leases will be reflected on the balance sheet.
The new standard will replace IAS 17 Leases and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 unless adopted early.
The Groups property lease commitments will be brought onto the consolidated statement of financial position using the prospective method, as a liability with a corresponding asset.
Total costs incurred remain unchanged over the life of the lease but the timing of when those costs are recognised within the consolidated income statement will be impacted.
Based on analysis of property lease commitments held by the group at 30 September 2018, and using an estimated discount rate, the net impact on profit is not expected to be material.
There is no impact on the Groups cash flows.
100 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS d Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements consolidate the financial statements of On the Beach Group plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
Classic Collection Holidays Limited was acquired on 15 August 2018.
The Companys results have been consolidated from the date of acquisition to 30 September 2018. i.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has power over the investee, the company is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and the company has the ability to use its power of the investee to affect the amount of investors returns.
Intercompany transactions eliminated on consolidation.
Intragroup balances, and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial information.
Gains arising from transactions with jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
e Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and trade and assets represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently remeasured at cost less any accumulated impairments losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated to first reduce the amount of goodwill allocated to the unit and then the other assets in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed.
Impairment losses recognised for other assets is reversed only if the reasons for the impairment have ceased to apply.
f Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting Fair value hedges The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate risk.
Further details of these derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 23 of these financial statements.
On initial designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in understanding the hedge transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value of the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 125 percent.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: any attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are charged immediately in the profit and loss account.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements iii.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the cash flow statement.
All customer monies are held in a trust account until after the provision of the holiday service.
The trust accounts are governed by a deed between the Group, the Civil Aviation Authority Air Travel Trustees, ABTA and independent trustees Zedra Trust Company Limited and Travel Trust Services Limited, which determines the inflows and outflows from the account.
For bookings made as agent, all customer receipts are paid into the trust account in full before the holiday departure date.
These payments are held in the trust account until the service is provided - for flights on payment to the supplier and for hotels and ancillaries on the customers return from holiday.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables including deferred consideration are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
h Segment reporting IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the management team, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into segments based on activity, and information is provided to the management team on these segments for the purposes of resource allocation and segment performance management and monitoring.
The management team considers there to be three reportable segments: i Core - activity via UK websites www.
co. uk ii B2B - activity via the newly acquired Tour Operator, Classic Collection Holidays Limited and its subsidiary ii International - activity via Swedish, Norwegian and Danish websites eBeach.
dk i Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised as follows: As agent: The Group acts as agent when it is not the primary party responsible for providing the components that make up the customers booking.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable in the form of commission.
Commissions are earned from the supplier or consumer in purchases of travel products such as flight tickets or hotel accommodation from third party suppliers.
Commission is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership is transferred to the customer, usually on delivery of the booking confirmation.
Cancellations are estimated at the reporting date based on the historical profile of bookings.
As principal: The Group acts as principal when it is the primary party responsible for providing the components that make up the customers booking.
Revenue represents amounts received or receivable for the sale of package holidays and other services supplied to the customers.
Revenue is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually at the date of departure.
Revenue is stated net of discounts, rebates, refunds and value added tax.
Override income The Group has agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related rebates are received in connection with the travel arrangements made with the customer.
The income received from suppliers relates to an increase in commission received, and as such is considered part of the Groups revenue.
The Group has some agreements whereby receipt of the income is conditional on the Group achieving agreed volume targets.
For agreements not linked to volume targets, override income is recognised when earned by the Group, which occurs when all obligations conditional for earning income have been discharged, and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms of the contract, which is usually once the booking has been confirmed with the supplier.
For agreements where volume targets are in place, income is recognised once the target has been achieved.
For volume targets which span the year end the Group is required to make estimates in determining the amount and timing of recognition of override.
In determining the amount of volume-related allowances recognised in any period, management estimate the probability that the Group will meet contractual target volumes, based on historical and forecast performance.
Amounts due but not yet recovered relating to override income are recognised within trade and other receivables.
102 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS j Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the Groups shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Groups shareholders.
k Business combinations All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the income statement.
I Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-5 years Buildings freehold 50 years Buildings leasehold 50 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful economic lives on the same bases as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
m Investment property Properties are externally valued on the basis of fair value at the balance sheet date.
Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties is recognised as other income in the income statement.
n Held for sale assets Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is expected to be recovered or settled principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
The asset must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable within one year of the reporting date.
Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products are capitalised if the product or process meet the following criteria: the completion of the development is technically and commercially feasible to complete: adequate technical resources are sufficiently available to complete development: it can be demonstrated that future economic benefits are probable: and the expenditure attributable to the development can be measured reliably.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product, website or system include employee costs.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria as well as ongoing maintenance are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs for software, websites and systems are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are amortised over their useful lives not exceeding five years at the point in which they come into use.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ii.
Brand Upon acquisition of the Group by OTB Topco, the On the Beach brand was identified as a separately identifiable asset.
co. uk Limited and Classic Collection Holidays Limited has resulted in the brand of each as being identified and recognised separately from goodwill at fair value.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Website technology: 10 years Website & development costs: 3 years Brand: 10-15 years Agent relationships 15 years Customer relationships 5 years iv.
Customer relationships Upon the acquisition of Classic Collection Holidays Limited customer relationships have been identified as a separately identifiable assets.
Classic Collections revenue is driven by a very high volume of repeat customers due to its bespoke holiday packages and the target market.
Repeat customers are from two broad segments - independent travel agents and direct customers.
There is a defined margin and attrition profile differential between the two customer groups and as such two separate assets have been identified.
p Impairment of non-financial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangibles assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets the cash-generating unit.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units, or CGU.
Subject to an operating segment ceiling test, for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro rata basis.
q Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Pension scheme The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
A defined contribution scheme is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the years during which services are rendered by employees.
Share-based payment transactions Equity-settled awards are valued at grant date, and the difference between the grant date fair value and the consideration paid by the employee is charged as an expense in the income statement spread over the vesting period.
Fair value of the awards are measured using Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo pricing models.
The credit side of the entry is recorded in equity.
104 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS s Financing income and expenses Financing expenses comprise interest payable, finance charges on shares classified as liabilities and finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method, unwinding of the discount on provisions, and net foreign exchange losses that are recognised in the income statement see foreign currency accounting policy.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial time to be prepared for use, are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Financing income comprise interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, and net foreign exchange gains.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
t Exceptional costs The Group presents on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.
u Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
v Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
w Share premium and other reserves The amount subscribed for the ordinary shares in excess of the nominal value of these new shares is recorded in share premium.
The amount subscribed for the preference shares in excess of the nominal value of these new preference shares is recorded in other reserves.
Costs that directly relate to the issue of ordinary shares are deducted from share premium net of corporation tax.
x Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
y Capital Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
z Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
The Group specifically provides for the cancellation of bookings.
The provision is estimated by applying historical cancellation data to bookings not travelled at the reporting date.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 105
