Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5. Business combinations Acquisition of Classic Collection Holidays Limited On 15 August 2018 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Classic Collection Holidays Limited in exchange for cash, shares and contingent consideration.
The primary reason for the business combination was to increase market share and gain access to the Classic Collection Groups B2B network Asset acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition are as follows: Recognised values on acquisition m Net assets acquired Intangible assets 11.2 Property plant and equipment 2.0 Investment property 0.8 Trade and other receivables 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 18.2 Trade and other payables 20.0 Deferred tax liabilities 1.9 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 15.3 Consideration paid Cash paid 17.2 Contingent consideration 2.7 Deferred working capital 0.8 Shares issued 2.6 Total consideration 23.3 Net working capital cash adjustment 3.3 Net consideration 20.0 Goodwill 8.0 Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Classic Collection brand, including the domain name and customer relationships have been identified as assets separate from goodwill with a value of 11.2m.
The recognition of these assets has resulted in a deferred tax liability of 1.9m.
The goodwill balance represents the value of the workforce, the realisation of the potential increase in market share through gaining access to the existing distribution network of travel agents.
None of the goodwill identified on this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The Board believes the acquisition will be earnings enhancing because it will give the Group a business to business channel through which the Group can gain access to the offline short haul beach holidays market.
The fair value of the contingent consideration at acquisition amounts to 2.7m which is the agreed payment amount.
The contigent consideration will be reduced by any losses suffered or incurred resulting from any material breach of the Directors service agreements.
This is deemed to be remote, and therefore doesnt affect the fair value.
The Directors will receive market rate remuneration for the period of the service agreement which is separate from the consideration amount.
Acquisition related costs amounting to 0.6m have been excluded from the consideration transferred and were recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account within the exceptional costs line.
The agreed purchase price for Classic Collection Holidays Group was 20m plus excess working capital of 3.3m which is equal to the total consideration of 23.3m.
Due to the relatively short time between acquisition and 30 September 2018, the intangible assets recognised are deemed to be provisional.
Included in the operating profit for the period ended 30 September 2018 is 1.1m attributable to the additional business generated by Classic Collection.
Had the business combination been effected as at 1 October 2017, the revenue for the Group would have been 147.4m and the operating profit for the period would have been 24.8m.
108 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisition of Sunshine.
co. uk Limited On 9 May 2017 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Sunshine.
co. uk Limited in exchange for cash and contingent consideration.
The primary reason for the business combination was to increase the Groups market share.
Asset acquired and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition are as follows: Recognised values on acquisition m Net assets acquired Intangible assets 1.6 Property plant and equipment 0.5 Trade and other receivables 25.8 Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 Trade and other payables 29.0 Deferred tax liabilities 0.3 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 1.8 Consideration paid Cash paid 13.0 Contingent consideration 3.0 Total consideration 16.0 Net working capital cash adjustment 4.0 Net consideration 12.0 Goodwill 10.2 Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Sunshine.
co. uk brand, including the domain name, has been identified as an asset separate from goodwill with a value of 1.5m.
The recognition of the brand has resulted in a deferred tax liability of 0.3m.
The goodwill balance represents the realisation of the potential increase in market share and efficiencies as a result of economies of scale provided by the existing Group infrastructure.
The Board believes the acquisition will be earnings enhancing because of the Groups ability to quickly leverage its modular technology platform to deliver a market leading customer proposition, access directly sourced, higher margin product and deliver proprietary personalisation and bid management technology.
The acquisition will accelerate On the Beachs growth and the compelling economic benefits of scale will create short to medium term synergies and further margin opportunity.
The fair value of the contingent consideration at acquisition amounts to 3.0m, which is the agreed payment amount.
There is one condition attached which may result in any expenses incurred being deducted from this consideration but the occurrence of this condition is considered to be remote by management.
Acquisition related costs amounting to 0.7m have been excluded from the consideration transferred and were recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account within the exceptional costs line.
The agreed purchase price for Sunshine.
Excess working capital was paid upon acquisition as additional consideration.
Included in the operating profit for the period ended 30 September 2017 is 0.5m attributable to the additional business generated by Sunshine.
Had the business combination been effected as at 1 October 2016, the revenue for the Group would have been 86.2m and the operating profit for the period would have been 22.2m.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 109
