Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended 30 September 2018 1.
General Information On the Beach Group plc is a public limited company which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 139.
Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling m because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
b Going concern The financial results relating to the Group have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Directors believe the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
c New standards, amendments and interpretations The following Adopted IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the effect of these standards on the financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers European Union effective date 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
Our initial impact assessment of IFRS 15 included a systematic review to ensure the new standard is fully understood in advance of the effective date.
Management have concluded that there will be no material impact upon adoption of this standard on either revenue from customers or overrides from suppliers.
With respect to revenue from customer bookings, management believes adopting IFRS 15 will have no material impact because of the following: For customer bookings made as agent, the group performance obligations, to make the travel arrangements on behalf of the customer, will be met once the booking has been confirmed to them, this is at the same point under IAS 18.
For customer bookings made as principal, the Group will recognise revenue once it has fulfiled its performance obligations to provide the package holiday.
This is at the same point under IAS 18.
With respect to revenue from supplier overrides, management believes adopting IFRS 15 will have no material impact.
For the majority, according to the override agreement, the Groups performance obligations are met and overrides are earned when the customer has booked.
Although we do not consider there will be a material impact upon adoption of the standard, we will continue to monitor adoption in the travel industry as we progress towards the date of adoption.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments European Union effective date 1 January 2018 The revised standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and introduces new guidance for classification and measurement, impairment of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
On the basis of our initial impact assessment our view of the new standard is that we expect there to be no material impact upon adoption of this standard.
The new standard represents a more principle-based standard.
This is not expected to impact the Groups ability to hedge account, although there will be additional disclosures required to complement its principle-based approach.
IFRS 16 Leases European Union effective date 1 January 2019 IFRS 16, Leases provides guidance on the classification, recognition and measurement of leases to help provide useful information to the users of financial statements.
The main aim of this standard is to ensure material leases will be reflected on the balance sheet.
The new standard will replace IAS 17 Leases and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 unless adopted early.
The Groups property lease commitments will be brought onto the consolidated statement of financial position using the prospective method, as a liability with a corresponding asset.
Total costs incurred remain unchanged over the life of the lease but the timing of when those costs are recognised within the consolidated income statement will be impacted.
Based on analysis of property lease commitments held by the group at 30 September 2018, and using an estimated discount rate, the net impact on profit is not expected to be material.
There is no impact on the Groups cash flows.
100 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
