122 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial statements for the Group and the Bank are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, as modified by the revaluation of investment securities held at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and derivative contracts and financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no Statement of Comprehensive Income is presented for the Bank.
b Going concern The Board undertakes regular rigorous assessments of whether the Group is a going concern in the light of current economic conditions and all available information about future risks and uncertainties.
Projections for the Group have been prepared, covering its future performance, capital and liquidity for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements including stress scenarios.
The stress scenarios include Brexit and Bank of England Term Funding Scheme TFS repayments.
These projections show that the Group has sufficient capital and liquidity to continue to meet its regulatory requirements as set out by the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
The Board has therefore concluded that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for a period in excess of 12 months and as a result it is appropriate to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis.
c Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the results of the Bank and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Upon consolidation, intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
In the Banks financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
d Foreign currency translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the presentation currency of the Group.
The financial statements of each of the Banks subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currencies using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange FX gains and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these items are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items measured at cost in the foreign currency are translated using the spot FX rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in the foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the spot FX rate at the date of which the fair value is determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with functional currencies other than Pounds Sterling are translated into the presentation currency at the exchange rate on the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at the rates on the dates of transactions.
Exchange differences on foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign exchange reserve within equity.
e Segmental reporting IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports and components of the Group which are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to segments and to assess their performance.
For this purpose, the chief operating decision maker of the Group is the Board of Directors.
The Group lends within the UK and the Channel Islands.
The Group segments its lending by product, focusing on the customer need and reason for a loan.
It operates under two segments: Buy-to-Let SME BTL SME Residential mortgages.
The Group includes asset finance leases a new business lending line developed internally with lending commencing in October 2018 and personal loans sold in June 2018 within the BTL SME segment.
The Group has applied the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8 for the segmental reporting in note 43 but has disclosed the risk management tables in note 39 at a sub-segment level to provide the user with granular level analysis of the Groups core lending business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 f Interest income and expense Interest income and interest expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments measured at amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR is the rate which discounts the expected future cash flows, over the expected life of the financial instrument, to the net carrying value of the financial asset or liability.
When calculating the EIR, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the instrument and behavioural aspects for example, prepayment options but not considering future credit losses.
The calculation of the EIR includes all transaction costs and fees paid or received that are an integral part of the interest rate, together with the discounts or premiums arising on the acquisition of loan portfolios.
Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument.
The Group monitors the actual cash flows for each acquired book and where they diverge significantly from expectation, the future cashflows are reset.
In assessing whether to adjust future cash flows on an acquired portfolio, the Group considers the cash variance onan absolute and percentage basis.
The Group also considers the total variance across all acquired portfolios.
Where cash flows for anacquired portfolio are reset, they are discounted at the EIR to derive a new carrying value, with changes taken to profit or loss as interest income.
The EIR rate is adjusted where there is a change to the reference interest rate LIBOR or Base Rate affecting portfolios with a variable interest rate which will impact future cash flows.
The revised EIR is the rate which exactly discounts the revised cash flows to the net carrying value of the loan portfolio.
Interest income on FVOCI investment securities is included in interest receivable and similar income.
Interest on derivatives is included in interest receivable and similar income or interest expense and similar charges following the underlying instrument it is hedging.
Interest paid on equity Perpetual Subordinated Bonds PSBs and AT1 securities is recognised directly in equity in the period in which they are paid.
g Fees and commissions Fees and commissions which are an integral part of the EIR of a financial instrument are recognised as an adjustment to the EIR and recorded in interest income.
The Group includes early redemption charges within the EIR.
Other fees and commissions are recognised on the accruals basis as services are provided or on the performance of a significant act, net of VAT and similar taxes.
h Taxation Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
It is recognised in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or directly in equity, consistently with the recognition of items it relates to.
Current tax is the expected tax charge or credit on the taxable income or loss in the period and any adjustments in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for accounting purposes and carrying amounts for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to utilise the asset.
The recognition of deferred tax is mainly dependent on the projections of future taxable profits and future reversals of temporary differences.
The current Boards projections of future taxable income assume that the Group will utilise its deferred tax asset within the foreseeable future.
The Bank and its UK subsidiaries are in a group payment arrangement for corporation tax and show a net corporation tax liability and deferred tax asset accordingly.
i Dividends Dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid or, if earlier, approved by shareholders.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, non-restricted balances with central banks and highly liquid financial assets with original maturities of less than three months subject to an insignificant risk of changes in their fair value.
k Intangible assets Purchased software and costs directly associated with the development of computer software are capitalised as intangible assets where the software is a unique and identifiable asset controlled by the Group and will generate future economic benefits.
Costs to establish technological feasibility or to maintain existing levels of performance are recognised as an expense.
124 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Accounting policies continued Software is amortised on a straight line basis in profit or loss over its estimated useful life, which is generally 5 years.
The Group reviews the amortisation period on an annual basis.
If the expected useful life of assets is different from previous assessments, the amortisation period is changed accordingly.
l Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise freehold land and buildings, major alterations to office premises, computer equipment and fixtures measured at cost less accumulated depreciation.
These assets are reviewed for impairment annually, and if they are considered to be impaired, are written down immediately to their recoverable amounts.
Gains and losses on disposals, calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds with the carrying amount of the asset, are included in profit or loss.
Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements 10 years Equipment and fixtures 5 years Land, deemed to be 25% of purchase price of buildings, is not depreciated.
The cost of repairs and renewals is charged to profit or loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Recognition The Group initially recognises loans and advances, deposits, debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date on which they are originated.
All other financial instruments are accounted for on the trade date which is when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group initially recognises financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value plus, for instruments not at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue.
Transaction costs relating to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument at FVTPL are recognised in the profit or loss as incurred.
Classification The Group classifies financial instruments based on the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial instruments.
Under IFRS 9, the Group classifies financial assets into one of three measurement categories: Amortised cost assets held in a business model to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, where the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
Fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI assets held in a business model which collects contractual cash flows and sells financial assets where the contractual terms of the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
The Group only measures investment securities under this category, which were previously classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39.
Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL assets not measured at amortised cost or FVOCI.
The Group only measures derivative assets under this category.
The 2017 comparatives are classified in accordance with IAS 39 and IAS 32 into the following categories: Loans and receivables Available-for-sale AFS At fair value through profit or loss.
The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities as measured at amortised cost.
The Group has no financial assets nor liabilities classified as held for trading or held to maturity.
The Group classifies certain financial instruments as equity where they meet the following conditions: The financial instrument includes no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset on potentially unfavourable conditions The financial instrument is a non-derivative that includes no contractual obligation for the issuer to deliver a variable number of its own equity instruments: or The financial instrument is a derivative that will be settled only by the issuer exchanging a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Equity financial instruments comprise own shares, equity PSBs and AT1 securities.
Accordingly, the coupon paid on the equity PSBs and AT1 securities, and related tax effects, are recognised directly in retained earnings when paid.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 iii.
Derecognition The Group derecognises financial assets when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
Where contractual cash flows are significantly modified e. g. through the broker-led Choices programme the original financial asset is derecognised with a new financial asset recognised for the modified cash flows.
The forbearance measures offered by the Group are considered a modification event as the contractual cash flows are renegotiated or otherwise modified.
The Group considers the renegotiated or modified cash flows are not wholly different from the contractual cash flows, and does not consider forbearance measures to give rise to a derecognition event.
Financial liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32.
The Groups derivatives are covered by industry standard master netting agreements.
Master netting agreements create a right of set-off that becomes enforceable only following a specified event of default or in other circumstances not expected to arise in the normal course of business.
These arrangements do not qualify for offsetting under IAS 32 and as such the Group reports derivatives on a gross basis.
Collateral in respect of derivatives is subject to the standard industry terms of International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Credit Support Annex.
This means that the cash received or given as collateral can be pledged or used during the term of the transaction but must be returned on maturity of the transaction.
The terms also give each counterparty the right to terminate the related transactions upon the counterpartys failure to post collateral.
Collateral paid or received does not qualify for offsetting under IAS 32, and is recognised in loans and advances to credit institutions and amounts owed to credit institutions respectively.
v. Amortised cost measurement The amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability is the amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is measured at initial recognition, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the EIR method of any difference between the initial amount recognised and the maturity amount, minus any reduction for impairment.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in the principal or, in its absence, the most advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
When available, the Group measures the fair value of an instrument using the quoted price in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
The Group measures the fair value of its investment securities and PSBs using quoted market prices.
If there is no quoted price in an active market, then the Group uses valuation techniques that maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of unobservable inputs.
The Group uses LIBOR curves to value its derivatives, however, using overnight index swap OIS curves would not materially change their value.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments incorporates credit valuation adjustments CVA and debit valuation adjustments DVA.
The DVA and CVA take into account the respective credit ratings of the Bank and counterparty and whether the derivative is collateralised or not.
Interest rate derivatives are valued using discounted cash flow models and observable market data and will be sensitive to benchmark interest rate curves.
Identification and measurement of impairment During 2018 the Group used the IFRS 9 three stage expected credit loss ECL approach for measuring impairment.
The three impairment stages under IFRS 9 are as follows: Stage 1 entities are required to recognise a 12 month ECL allowance where there is no significant increase in credit risk SICR since initial recognition.
Stage 2 a lifetime loss allowance is held for assets where a SICR is identified since initial recognition.
The assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed for each reporting period for the life of the loan.
Stage 3 requires objective evidence that an asset is credit impaired, at which point a lifetime ECL allowance is required.
During 2017 the Group used IAS 39 specific and collective provisioning basis for measuring impairment.
The Group measures impairment through the use of individual and modelled assessments.
Individual assessment The Groups provisioning process requires individual assessment for loans over 0.5m which are more than three months in arrears, have LPA receivers appointed, the property is taken into possession or there are any other events that suggest a high probability of credit loss.
Loans are considered at a connection level, i. e. including all loans belonging to and connected to the customer.
126 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group estimates cash flows from these loans, including expected interest and principal payments, rental or sale proceeds, selling and other costs.
The Group obtains up-to-date independent valuations for properties put up for sale.
If the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original EIR is less than the carrying value of the loan, a provision is recognised for the difference.
Such loans are classified as impaired.
If the present value of the estimated future cash flows exceeds the carrying value no provision is recognised.
The Group applies its IFRS 9 2017: IAS 39 models to all loans with no individually assessed provision.
2018 IFRS 9 modelled impairment Measurement of ECL The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability weighted.
ECL is measured on either a 12 month stage 1 or lifetime basis depending on whether a SICR has occurred since initial recognition stage 2 or where an account meets the Groups definition of default stage 3.
The ECL calculation is a product of an individual loans probability of default PD, exposure at default EAD and loss given default LGD discounted at the effective interest rate EIR.
The ECL drivers of PD, EAD and LGD are modelled at an account level.
The assessment of whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred is based on the lifetime PD estimate.
Significant increase in credit risk movement to stage 2 The Groups transfer criteria determine what constitutes a SICR, which results in an exposure being moved from stage 1 to stage 2.
At the point of recognition a loan is assigned a lifetime PD estimate.
For each monthly reporting date thereafter an updated lifetime PD estimate is computed for the life of the loan.
The Groups transfer criteria analyses relative changes in lifetime PD versus the origination lifetime PD, where if prescribed thresholds are met, an account will be transferred from stage 1 to stage 2.
IFRS 9 includes a rebuttable presumption that if an account is more than 30 days past due it has experienced a SICR.
The Group considers more than 30 days past due to be an appropriate back stop measure and therefore has not rebutted this presumption.
The Groups Risk function constantly monitors the ongoing appropriateness of the transfer criteria, where any proposed amendments are reviewed and approved by the Groups Management Committees and the Risk and Audit Committees at least semi-annually or more frequently if required.
A borrower will move back into stage 1 where the SICR definition is no longer satisfied.
Definition of default movement to stage 3 The Group uses a number of quantitative and qualitative criteria to determine whether an account meets the definition of default and therefore moves to stage 3.
The criteria currently include: The rebuttable presumption that more than 90 days past due is an indicator of default.
The Group has not rebutted this presumption and therefore deems more than 90 days past due as an indicator of default.
This also ensures alignment between the Groups Internal Ratings Based IRB models and the Basel Regulatory definition of default.
The Group has also deemed it appropriate to classify accounts that have moved into an unlikeliness to pay position, which includes forbearance, repossession and interest-only term expiry.
A borrower will move out of stage 3 when their credit risk improves such that they no longer meet the 90 days past due and unlikeliness to pay criteria and following this have completed an internally approved probation period.
The borrower will move to stage 1 or stage 2 dependent on whether the SICR applies.
Forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios IFRS 9 requires firms to consider the risk of default and expected credit loss taking into consideration expectations of economic changes that are deemed to be reasonably possible.
The Group uses a bespoke macroeconomic model to determine the most significant factors which may influence the likelihood of an exposure defaulting in the future.
The macroeconomic factors relate to the HPI, unemployment and the Bank of England Base Rate.
The Group has derived an approach for factoring probability weighted macroeconomic forecasts into ECL calculations, adjusting PD and LGD estimates.
An accounts lifetime PD is impacted by the probability weighted macroeconomic scenario and therefore impacts whether an account meets the Groups SICR transfer criteria moving the exposure between stage 1 and stage 2.
The macroeconomic scenarios feed directly into the ECL calculation, as the adjusted PD, lifetime PD and LGD estimates are used within the individual account ECL allowance calculations.
The Group currently does not have an in-house economics function and therefore sources economic forecasts from an appropriately qualified third party.
The Group will consider a minimum of three probability weighted scenarios, including base, upside and downside scenarios.
During 2018, a fourth scenario was introduced relating specifically to a disorderly no-deal Brexit outcome.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 The base case is also utilised within the Groups impairment forecasting process which in turn feeds the wider business planning processes.
This economic forecast is also used to set the Groups credit risk appetite thresholds and limits.
Expected life IFRS 9 requires lifetime expected credit losses to be measured over the expected life.
Currently the Group considers the loans behavioural life is equal to the full mortgage term.
This approach will continue to be monitored and enhanced if and when deemed appropriate.
Purchased or originated credit impaired POCI Acquired loans that meet OSBs definition of default 90 days past due or an unlikeliness to pay position at acquisition are treated as a POCI asset.
These assets will attract a lifetime ECL allowance over the full term of the loan, even when the loan no longer meets the definition of default post acquisition.
The Group does not originate credit impaired loans.
2017 IAS 39 modelled impairment All loans which have not been individually assessed are subsequently assessed for impairment collectively, with each loan being assigned a one year PD and a LGD generally consistent with the requirements of the IRB approach, leading to the expected loss EL.
The provision is the sum of all ELs.
The calculation uses indexed valuations from ONS statistics applied at a postcode level.
All provisions on loans greater than three months in arrears are treated as a specific provision as they are considered to be impaired.
Loans less than three months in arrears are assigned a collective provision.
Different PDs are used for BTL SME mortgages, Residential mortgages and unsecured loans.
Interest-only mortgages, which are predominantly within the BTL SME segment, are not differentiated further from capital repayment mortgages.
As PDs are generated from historic portfolio performance using a mix of interest-only and repayment loans, they capture the impact of interest-only mortgages as long as the mix remains similar.
The Group has been contacting owner-occupied residential customers with upcoming interest-only loan maturities and tracking responses and outcomes through specific campaigns since 2014.
There is no provision for the non-repayment risk of these loans.
Second charge mortgages are considered separately to first charge residential mortgages in that separate PDs are calculated and used in loss calculations based on previous experience of losses on second charge loans.
The LGD calculation on second charge mortgages considers the fact that the holder of the first charge on collateral has first claim on the proceeds of a sale.
Incurred but not reported losses IBNR, where a loss trigger has occurred but the borrower has not yet missed a payment, are captured through the Groups collective provisioning process.
PD rates are calculated for loans that are not in arrears based on historic loss data and a provision value is calculated for these accounts.
The calculation of PD rates incorporates assumptions for emergence periods EP, cure rates and forbearance.
The Group conducts detailed analysis to calculate the time taken for a customer to fall into arrears post a loss event occurring e. g. loss of employment.
This EP is then considered within a wider observation period utilised to model the time taken post loss event for the customer to reach a default state.
Loans and the related provision are written off when the underlying security is sold or an unsecured loan customer has not paid for 12 months.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are taken through profit or loss.
The Group classifies a loan as forborne at the point a concession is granted based on the deteriorated financial status of the borrower.
Accounts are classified as forborne only for the period of time which the loan is known to be, or may still be, in financial difficulty.
When the borrower is no longer experiencing financial difficulties the loan will revert to standard terms.
If the forbearance eliminates the arrears, the loan is no longer considered past due.
None of the forbearance measures modify the overall cash flows to an extent that requires derecognition of the existing and recognition of a new loan under IAS 39.
Loans that have ever had forbearance applied are assigned a higher PD in the collective provision calculation.
Forborne accounts are not treated differently in relation to impairments in any other way.
Designation at fair value through the profit or loss account The Group has not irrevocably designated any financial assets or financial liabilities at FVTPL during the current and previous year.
n Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are predominantly mortgage loans and advances to customers with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and that the Group does not intend to sell in the near term.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method, less impairment losses.
Where exposures are hedged by derivatives, designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the fair value adjustment for the hedged risk to the carrying value of the hedged loans and advances is reported in fair value adjustments for hedged assets.
128 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Accounting policies continued Loans and advances over which the Group transfers its rights to the collateral thereon to the Bank of England under the TFS and Indexed Long-Term Repo ILTR are not derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position, as the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including all cash flows arising from the loans and advances and exposure to credit risk.
The Group classifies TFS and ILTR as amortised cost under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Loans and receivables also contain the Groups asset finance lease lending.
Finance leases are initially measured at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease, using the interest rate implicit in the finance lease.
Initial direct costs are included in the initial measurement of the net investment in the lease and reduce the amount of income recognised over the lease term.
Finance income is recognised over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in the lease.
o Investment securities Investment securities comprise securities held for liquidity purposes UK treasury bills and supranational bonds in the nature of investment securities.
These assets are non-derivatives that are designated as FVOCI 2017: AFS.
These are held at fair value with movements taken to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the FVOCI 2017: AFS reserve within equity, except for impairment losses which are taken to profit or loss.
When the instrument is sold, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
p Deposits and subordinated liabilities Deposits and subordinated liabilities are the Groups sources of debt funding.
They comprise deposits from retail customers and credit institutions, including collateralised loan advances from the Bank of England under the TFS and ILTR and subordinated liabilities.
Subordinated liabilities include the Sterling PSBs where the terms allow no discretion over the payment of interest.
These financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less direct transaction costs, and subsequently held at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Cash received under the TFS and ILTR is recorded in amounts owed to credit institutions.
Interest is accrued over the life of the agreements on an EIR basis.
q Sale and repurchase agreements Financial assets sold subject to repurchase agreements repo are retained in the financial statements if they fail derecognition criteria of IFRS 9 described in paragraph m iii above.
The financial assets that are retained in the financial statements are reflected as loans or investment securities and the counterparty liability is included in amounts owed to depositors, credit institutions or other customers.
Financial assets purchased under agreements to resell at a pre-determined price where the transaction is financing in nature reverse repo are accounted for as loans and receivables.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreement using the EIR method.
r Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to the interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for proprietary trading.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at their fair value with changes in their fair value taken to profit or loss.
Fair values are calculated by discounting cash flows at the prevailing interest rates.
All derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
If a derivative is cancelled, it is derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position.
The Group is party to a limited number of options and warrants.
These are recognised as a derivative financial instruments as applicable where a trigger event takes place and the fair value of the option or warrant can be reliably measured.
s Hedge accounting The Group has chosen to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of the requirements in Chapter 6 of IFRS 9.
The Group uses fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk IAS 39 AG 114.
Portfolio hedge accounting allows for hedge effectiveness testing and accounting over an entire portfolio of derivatives.
To qualify for hedge accounting at inception, the hedge relationship is clearly documented and the derivative must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting the hedged risk.
In addition, effectiveness must be tested throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
The Group applies fair value portfolio hedge accounting to its fixed rate portfolio of mortgages and saving accounts.
The hedged portfolio is analysed into repricing time periods based on expected repricing dates, utilising the ALCO approved prepayment curve.
Interest rate swaps are designated against the repricing time periods to establish the hedge relationship.
Hedge effectiveness is calculated as a percentage of the fair value movement of the interest rate swap against the fair value movement of the hedged item over the period tested.
Where there is an effective hedge relationship for fair value hedges, the Group recognises the change in fair value of each hedged item in profit or loss with the cumulative movement in their value being shown separately in the Statement of Financial Position as fair value adjustments on hedged assets and liabilities.
The fair value changes of both the derivative and the hedge substantially offset each other to reduce profit volatility.
The Group has derivatives in place against the pipeline, with loans originating in subsequent months.
The derivative is included within hedge accounting once loans have originated.
Fair value movements prior to loans originating, when the derivative is against the pipeline, are recognised in full in the period in profit or loss.
The accumulated amount in profit or loss is subsequently amortised over the remaining life of the derivative on a straight line basis from the period the derivative is hedge accounted for against originated loans.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 The Group discontinues hedge accounting when the derivative ceases through expiry, when the derivative is cancelled or the underlying hedged item matures, is sold or is repaid.
If a derivative no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or is cancelled whilst still effective, the fair value adjustment relating to the hedged assets or liabilities within the hedge relationship prior to the derivative becoming ineffective or being cancelled remains on the Statement of Financial Position and is amortised over the remaining life of the hedged assets or liabilities.
The rate of amortisation over the remaining life is in-line with expected income or cost generated from the hedged assets or liabilities.
Each reporting period the expectation is compared to actual with an accelerated run off applied where the two diverge by more than set parameters.
t Debit and credit valuation adjustments The DVA and CVA are included in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
The DVA is based on the expected loss a counterparty faces due to the risk of the Groups default.
The CVA reflects the Groups risk of the counterpartys default.
The methodology is based on a standard calculation, taking into account: the one-year PD, updated on a regular basis the expected exposure at default the expected LGD, and the average maturity of the swaps.
u Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation will be settled and the amount can be estimated reliably.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events, or present obligations arising from past events which are either not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but disclosed unless their probability is remote.
v Employee benefits defined contribution scheme Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension arrangements are recognised as an expense in profit or loss as incurred.
w Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, equity-settled options and awards granted to employees over the Banks shares under the Groups share-based incentive schemes are measured at fair value at grant and are charged on a straight line basis to profit or loss with a corresponding increase in the share-based payment reserve within equity over the vesting period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The cumulative expense within the share-based payment reserve is reclassified to retained earnings upon vesting.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related conditions at the vesting date.
The amount recognised as an expense for awards subject to market conditions is based on the proportion that is expected to meet the condition as assessed at the grant date.
No adjustment is made for the actual proportion that meets the market condition at vesting.
Share-based payments that vest on grant are immediately expensed in full with a corresponding increase in equity.
The grant date fair value of a nil price award over the Banks shares which vests at grant or which carries the right to dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period IPO share awards is the share price at the grant date.
The grant date fair value of awards of the Banks shares that do not carry automatic rights to dividends or dividend equivalents the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP is based on the Banks share price at the grant date adjusted for the impact of the expected dividend yield.
The fair value at grant date of awards made under the Sharesave Schemes is determined using a Black-Scholes model.
The grant date fair value of awards that are subject to non-market conditions and which do not carry automatic rights to dividends or dividend equivalents the earnings per share EPS element of the Performance Share Plan PSP is based on the share price at the grant date adjusted for the impact of the expected dividend yield.
An assessment is made at each reporting date on the proportion of the awards expected to meet the related non-market vesting conditions.
The fair value of an award that is subject to market conditions the relative share price element of the PSP is determined at grant date using a Monte Carlo model.
Where the allowable cost of share-based options or awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to the share-based payment reserve within equity.
The tax effect is reclassified to retained earnings upon vesting.
Employers national insurance is charged to profit or loss at the share price at the reporting date on the same vesting schedule as the underlying options and awards.
130 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1.
Accounting policies continued x Securitisation The Group assesses whether it controls special purpose entities SPE and the requirement to consolidate them under the criteria of IFRS 10.
The criteria include the power to direct relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of these returns.
The Group had no economic interest in SPEs at the 2018 and 2017 reporting dates.
y Adoption of new standards In 2018 the Group adopted the classification and measurement and expected credit loss of financial instruments under IFRS 9 and revenue recognition principles of IFRS 15, together with amendments to existing standards that were endorsed for adoption by the EU and mandatory for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has applied IFRS 15 retrospectively in accordance with IFRS 15 C3 b.
There were no cumulative effects of initially applying IFRS 15 to be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Included below are standards and amendments which are being considered for future reporting periods which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases, effective from 1 January 2019, replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and two related SIC interpretations.
The new standard requires lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases over 12 months long.
Lessor accounting has largely remained unchanged.
The adoption of IFRS 16 in respect of rented properties is expected to have a c. 3.9m effect on the Statement of Financial Position, as the Group recognises a right-of-use asset and lease liability of this amount.
The Group will recognise the interest paid on the lease liability within the financing activities section of the 2019 Statement of Cash Flows.
The Group will use its internal cost of funding excluding the impact of TFS funding in discounting future cash flows to derive the right-of-use assets.
The adoption of IFRS 16 will have a negligible impact on the Groups capital.
The Group will apply the changes to IAS 12 Income taxes from annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 cycle effective from 1 January 2019.
The changes will require the Group to recognise the tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This will result in c. 1.8m of tax on interest paid on equity PSBs and AT1 securities which is currently recognised directly in equity being recognised in profit or loss.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates In preparing these financial statements, the Group has made judgements, estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts within the current and next financial year.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed based on past experience, expectations of future events and other factors.
Judgements The Group has made the following judgments in applying the accounting policies: i Loan book impairments Significant increase in credit risk for classification in Stage 2 The Groups transfer criteria determines what constitutes a significant increase in credit risk, which results in an exposure being moved from Stage 1 to Stage 2.
The transfer criteria analyses relative changes in lifetime PD versus the origination lifetime PD, where if prescribed thresholds are met, an account will be transferred from Stage 1 to Stage 2.
Setting the appropriate thresholds to determine what is a significant increase is a key area of judgement.
Probation period for classification from Stage 3 into Stage 1 or 2 The Group has set a minimum probation period which an account must undergo before returning to non-defaulted status.
While supported by analysis of re-default rates, the probation period is set judgementally to ensure that only a limited number of accounts default soon after returning to a non-defaulted status, whilst also allowing permanent cures to return to non-default without excessive delay.
ii IFRS 9 classification The Group has applied judgement in determining whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are SPPI on the principal amount outstanding when applying the classification criteria of IFRS 9.
The main area of judgement is over the Groups loans and advances to customers which have been accounted for under amortised cost.
Estimates The Group has made the following estimates in applying the accounting policies: i Loan book impairments This section provides details of the critical accounting estimates which underpin loan impairment calculations.
Less significant estimates are not disclosed.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Individual impairment Assessments for individually significant loans involve significant estimates to be made by management in relation to estimating future cash flows, including the cost of obtaining and selling collateral, the likely sale proceeds and any rental income prior to sale.
The most significant area of estimation is the likely sale proceeds.
The individually assessed provisioning process is therefore underpinned by updated external valuations being obtained once a case is adopted by the collections team.
All assets which do not have an individually assessed provision are assessed using the Groups IFRS 9 impairment models 2017: IAS 39 collective basis.
Modelled impairment Modelled provision assessments are also subject to estimation uncertainty, underpinned by a number of estimates being made by management which are utilised within impairment calculations.
Key areas of estimation within modelled provisioning calculations include those regarding the PD, the LGD and forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios.
Probability of Default models The Group developed a number of PD models to assess the likelihood of a default event occurring within the next 12 months, utilising internal and external credit bureau information.
Consequently the Group also computes a lifetime PD estimate for each loan exposure once recognised, underpinned by the 12 month PD estimate.
A 10% relative worsening of modelled PDs e. g. a 1.0% PD increasing to 1.1% PD would drive an increase in total provisions by 0.7m as at 31 December 2018 under IFRS 9 approach 2017: 0.4m under IAS 39 approach.
Loss Given Default model The Group developed a single LGD model, which includes a number of estimated inputs including propensity to go to possession given default PPD, forced sale discount FSD, time to sale TTS and sale cost estimates.
PPD and FSD parameters are segmented by loan type, with the LGD further segmented by LTV.
The LGD is sensitive to the application of the HPI.
As at 31 December 2018 a 10% fall in house prices would result in an incremental 11.0m 2017: 5.0m of provision being required.
The sensitivity increase year on year is primarily driven by the transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
Forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios The forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios affect both the PD and LGD estimates.
Therefore the expected credit losses calculations are sensitive to both the scenarios utilised and their associated probability weightings.
As the Group does not have an in-house economics function it sources economic forecasts from an appropriately qualified third party.
Due to the current uncertainty regarding Brexit negotiations the choice of scenarios and weightings are subject to a significant degree of estimation.
To address the economic uncertainty, during 2018 a fourth scenario was introduced relating specifically to a disorderly no-deal Brexit outcome.
As at 31 December 2018 an additional 10% of weighting attributed to this fourth scenario would result in an incremental 4.3m of provision being required.
If a 100% probability weighting was applied to the severe no-deal Brexit scenario, which was aligned to the Bank of England scenario published on 28 November 2018, an incremental 40.9m of provision would have been required as at 31 December 2018.
This scenario includes a peak 30% fall in HPI, unemployment rates rising to 7.5% and base rates increasing to 5.25%.
IAS 39 Collective impairment Provisions on loans three months plus in arrears are treated as specific provisions.
Provisions on loans less than three months in arrears are treated as collective provisions.
ii Loan book acquisition accounting and income recognition Acquired loan books are initially recognised at fair value.
Significant estimation is exercised in calculating their EIR using cash flow models which include assumptions on the likely macroeconomic environment, including HPI, unemployment levels and interest rates, as well as loan level and portfolio attributes and history used to derive prepayment rates, the probability and timing of defaults and the amount of incurred losses.
The EIR on loan books purchased at significant discounts or premiums is particularly sensitive to the cumulative prepayment rate CPR and cumulative default rate CDR derived, as the purchase discount or premium is recognised over the expected life of the loan book through the EIR.
New defaults are modelled at zero loss as losses will be recognised in profit or loss as impairment losses and therefore have the same impact on the EIR as prepayments.
Incurred losses at acquisition are calculated using the Groups modelled provision assessment see i Loan book impairments above for further details.
The EIR calculated at acquisition is not changed for subsequent variances in actual to expected cash flows.
The Group monitors the actual cash flows for each acquired book and where they diverge significantly from expectation, the future cash flows are updated with a reset gain or loss taken.
In assessing whether to adjust future cash flows on an acquired portfolio, the Group considers the cash variance on an absolute and percentage basis.
The Group also considers the total variance across all acquired portfolios and the economic outlook.
Where cash flows for an acquired portfolio are reset, they are discounted at the EIR calculated at acquisition to derive a new carrying value, with changes taken to profit or loss as interest income.
The Group recognised a gain of 2.0m in 2018 as a result of resetting cash flows on acquired mortgage books 2017: loss of 0.3m.
A 10% increase decrease in prepayment cash flow performance to date across the acquired books would result in a reset gain loss of c. 0.7m in 2018 2017: 0.8m.
iii Effective interest rate on organic lending A number of estimates are made when calculating the EIR for newly originated loan assets.
These include their expected lives, likely redemption profiles and the anticipated level of any early redemption charges.
132 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and critical accounting estimates continued Certain mortgage products offered by the Group include significant directly attributable net fee income, in particular Buy-to-Let, and or revert to the standard variable rate SVR after an initial discounted or fixed period.
The Group estimates the expected rate of prepayment during the discounted or fixed period of these mortgages and the expected life of those that prepay.
The Group uses historical experience in its assessment.
A 10% increase decrease in the rate of prepayments term for 2018 new originations would decrease increase interest income for 2018 by c. 0.3m 2017: c. 0.1m.
Estimation is also used in assessing whether and for how long mortgages that reach the end of the product term stay on SVR.
The most significant area of judgement is the period spent on SVR.
Prior to 2018, the Group prudently assumed no period on SVR, before borrowers refinance on to a new product or redeem, as it waited for a stable trend to emerge following the automation of the broker-led Choices programme in late 2016.
Behavioural data on two year products was available in 2018, and was used as the basis for assuming a period on SVR for both 2018 and prior year origination.
Estimates were used to assess how further planned enhancements to and automation of the Choices programme and the potential for changes in regulation might impact future behaviour.
No SVR period is recognised on three and five year products.
A three month longer shorter period on SVR reflected within the EIR for 2018 originations would increase decrease interest income in 2018 by c. 0.1m 2017: c. 0.4 0.3m.
A three month longer shorter period on SVR for loans outstanding at the year end, assessed by discounting back the additional future cash flows, would increase decrease interest income in 2018 by c. 0.9m 0.3m.
Interest receivable and similar income Group Group 2018 2017 m m At amortised cost: 1 On BTL SME mortgages 318.3 245.4 1 On Residential mortgages 89.8 93.7 On investment securities 0.3 0.1 On other liquid assets 7.6 2.0 At fair value through profit or loss: Net expense on derivative financial instrumentslending activities 8.1 8.5 407.9 332.7 1.
The comparative information for Residential mortgages has been reclassified following a change in allocation, with an additional 1.9m of interest income disclosed compared to the previously reported balance.
This has decreased the BTL SME mortgages interest income by 1.9m.
Interest payable and similar charges Group Group 2018 2017 m m On retail deposits 109.6 86.1 On Bank of England borrowings 8.7 2.9 On Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 0.9 0.9 On subordinated liabilities 0.7 0.9 On wholesale borrowings 0.4 0.2 Net expense income on derivative financial instrumentssavings activities 0.3 3.7 120.6 87.3 5.
Fair value losses on financial instruments Group Group 2018 2017 m m Fair value changes in hedged assets 11.0 8.7 Hedging of assets 13.8 10.0 Fair value changes in hedged liabilities 0.3 2.9 Hedging of liabilities 0.4 3.1 Ineffective portion of hedges 2.7 1.1 Net gains on unmatched swaps 2.4 Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets 4.6 7.3 Debit and credit valuation adjustment 0.2 0.1 5.1 6.3 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Amortisation of fair value adjustments on hedged assets relates to hedged assets and liabilities where the hedges were terminated before maturity and were effective at the point of termination.
The amortisation includes 3.0m 2017: 4.8m of accelerated unwind due to faster run-off on the long-dated fixed rate mortgages compared to the run-off profile at cancellation date.
Loss on sales of financial instruments During the year the Group disposed of its final portion of the personal loan portfolio.
The Group sold personal loans with a gross value of 0.9m for proceeds of 0.4m.
After removing loan loss provisions of 0.3m and recovering servicing costs of 0.1m, the Group made a 0.1m loss on disposal.
Administrative expenses Group Group 2018 2017 m m Staff costs 43.6 35.9 Facilities costs 3.3 2.4 Marketing costs 3.2 2.7 Support costs 9.2 8.4 Professional fees 7.7 5.0 1 Other costs 7.9 7.2 74.9 61.6 1.
Other costs mainly consist of irrecoverable VAT expense.
Included in professional fees are amounts paid to the auditors of the Group, further analysed below: Group Group 2018 2017 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 626 638 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 188 178 Audit-related assurance services 95 96 Tax compliance services 9 8 Other assurance services 31 47 Included within the audit of the Bank and Group accounts is 150k 2017: 165k relating to the audit of IFRS 9.
Other assurance services in 2018 include a review of data submitted to the Bank of England under the TFS and a review of the OSB India Private Limited financial statements as required by Indian income tax rules.
Staff costs comprise the following categories: Group Group 2018 2017 m m Salaries, incentive pay and other benefits 36.0 28.9 Share-based payments 2.5 2.4 Social security costs 3.4 3.3 Other pension costs 1.7 1.3 43.6 35.9 The average number of people employed by the Group including Executive Directors during the year was 989 2017: 813, analysed below: Group Group 2018 2017 Operations 510 442 Support functions 479 371 989 813 134 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 8.
Directors emoluments and transactions Bank Bank 2018 2017 000 000 Directors emoluments 2,116 1,914 Payments in respect of personal pension plans 109 104 Gains made on the exercise of share options 17 2,225 2,035 1.
Directors emoluments comprise salary costs, Non-Executive Directors fees and other short-term incentive benefits as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Gains made on the exercise of share options relate to the Sharesave Scheme, further discussed in note 9.
In addition to the total Directors emoluments above, the Executive Directors were granted a deferred bonus of 579k 2017: 346k in the form of shares deferred for three years under the DSBP.
The DSBP does not have any further performance conditions attached.
However, it is subject to clawback and is forfeited if the Executive Director leaves prior to vesting unless a good leaver reason applies such as redundancy, retirement or ill health.
The Executive Directors received a further share award under the PSP with a grant date face value of 1,265k 2017: 895k using a share price of 4.20 2017: 4.08 the average mid-market quotation for the preceding five days before grant.
These shares vest in three years subject to performance conditions discussed in note 9 and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There was no compensation for loss of office during either 2018 or 2017.
There were no outstanding loans granted in the ordinary course of business to Directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2018 and 2017.
The Annual Report on Remuneration and note 9 Share-based payments provide further details on Directors emoluments.
Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based schemes: IPO Share Awards Certain Directors, senior managers and other employees of the Bank received one-off share awards in the form of nil price awards over shares in the Bank on its admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
A proportion of these awards vested on admission with the remainder vesting over either a 12, 24 or 48 month period.
The cost of IPO Share Awards is reported within administrative expenses in profit or loss and is offset fully by an additional capital contribution as the awards were granted by OSB Holdco Limited, the Banks major shareholder at the time of the IPO.
The Groups IPO awards were fully vested by the end of 2018.
Sharesave Scheme The Save As You Earn SAYE or Sharesave Scheme is an all-employee share option scheme which is open to all UK-based employees.
The Sharesave Scheme allows employees to purchase options by saving a fixed amount of between 5 and 500 per month over a period of either three or five years at the end of which the options, subject to leaver provisions, are usually exercisable.
The Sharesave Scheme has been in operation since 2014 and is granted annually, with the exercise price set at a 20% discount of the share price on the date of grant.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The DSBP applies to Executive Directors and certain senior managers and requires 50% of their performance bonuses to be deferred in shares for three or five years.
There are no further performance conditions attached, but the share awards are subject to clawback provisions.
The DSBP is a share-based award and as such is expensed over its vesting period.
The first DSBP relating to 2014 bonuses was granted in March 2015.
Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain senior managers are also eligible for a PSP based on performance conditions linked to EPS and total shareholder return TSR over a three year vesting period.
The first award was issued in March 2015.
The performance conditions applying to PSP awards are based on a combination of EPS and TSR equally weighted and assessed independently.
For the EPS element, growth targets are linked to the Companys three year growth plan, measuring growth from the base figure for the prior year.
For the TSR element, OSB shares relative performance is measured against the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts.
The share-based expense for the year includes a charge in respect of the remaining IPO awards with future vesting provisions, Sharesave Scheme, DSBP and PSP.
All charges are included in employee expenses within note 7 Administrative expenses.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 The share-based payment expense during the year comprised of the following: Group Group 2018 2017 m m IPO Share Award expensed in the year 0.1 0.3 Sharesave Scheme 0.3 0.2 Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1.1 0.9 Performance Share Plan 1.0 1.0 2.5 2.4 Movements in the number of share awards and their weighted average exercise prices are presented below: Deferred IPO Share Share Bonus Performance Awards Sharesave Scheme Plan Share Plan Weighted average exercise Number Number price, Number Number At 1 January 2018 652,198 732,341 2.60 1,186,762 1,589,030 Granted 313,443 3.35 376,231 708,146 Exercised 652,198 162,093 2.25 301,575 559,179 Forfeited 42,062 2.86 2,706 At 31 December 2018 841,629 2.93 1,258,712 1,737,997 Exercisable at: 31 December 2018 2,861 3.15 Deferred IPO Share Share Bonus Performance Awards Sharesave Scheme Plan Share Plan Weighted average exercise Number Number price, Number Number At 1 January 2017 652,198 818,253 1.78 758,381 1,080,991 Granted 336,288 3.15 433,534 510,094 Exercised 382,597 1.35 Forfeited 39,603 2.43 5,153 2,055 At 31 December 2017 652,198 732,341 2.60 1,186,762 1,589,030 Exercisable at: 31 December 2017 For the share-based awards granted during the year, the weighted average grant date fair value was 399 pence 2017: 383 pence.
The weighted average market price at exercise for IPO Share Awards exercised in the year was 408 pence 2017: nil.
136 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 9.
Share-based payments continued The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Exercise price Number life years Number life years IPO share awards Nil 652,198 0.4 Sharesave Scheme 134335 pence 841,629 2.1 732,341 2.1 Deferred Share Bonus Plan Nil 1,258,712 1.3 1,186,762 1.4 Performance Share Plan Nil 1,737,997 1.4 1,589,030 1.2 3,838,338 1.5 4,160,331 1.3 The grant date fair values of options awards under the Groups share-based payment schemes are determined using a Black-Scholes model.
The share price at the grant date for all schemes is adjusted for the impact of dividends as the options awards do not carry automatic rights to dividends.
The valuation of share options awards is based on the following input assumptions: Expected volatility for Sharesave volatility is based on a benchmark of the FTSE 350 diversified financials whilst for DSBP and PSP plans volatility is based on the Banks share price volatility.
Attrition rate based on the attrition rate of all UK employees and updated annually for the DSBP and PSP awards.
Dividend yield based on the average dividend yield across external analysts reports for the quarter prior to scheme grant date.
A vesting rate is also calculated for the TSR element of the PSP, based on a Monte Carlo model using historical share price performance data for the target benchmark FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts and the FTSE 350 Diversified Financials as a proxy for the Companys shares as insufficient history was available.
IPO Share Awards The grant date fair value of the IPO Share Awards was the issue price of 1.70 as they are in the form of nil price awards which carry rights to dividends during the vesting period.
The charge in respect of awards with future vesting provisions assumed a weighted average attrition of nil 2017: nil per annum.
This is lower than the overall expected employee attrition rate as nil attrition was assumed for certain Senior Managers who received larger awards.
All IPO Share Awards were fully vested at 31 December 2018.
Exceptional cost Heritable option The Heritable Development Finance business operates as a joint venture JV between the Bank and certain senior members of the Heritable team the JV partners.
Under the JV, the parties agreed to co-operate in developing the business and lend alongside each other, sharing revenues in accordance with a profit waterfall.
The JV agreement also includes a put call option over the JV partners share of the business, exercisable from 2019, subject to certain conditions.
During 2018, the conditions of exercise were met and an exceptional cost of 9.8m was recognised for the fair value of the option.
Subsequent to the year end, the option was surrendered for a one off payment of 9.8m and the Bank acquired the JV partners interest in the business.
At the same time, a new revenue sharing arrangement was signed allowing the JV partners to continue to lend alongside the Bank.
Taxation Group Group 2018 2017 m m Corporation taxation 42.8 41.5 Deferred taxation 0.7 0.7 Total taxation 43.5 40.8 The taxation on the Groups profit before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average taxation rate applicable to profits of the Group as follows: 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation 183.8 167.7 Profit multiplied by the weighted average rate of corporation taxation in the UK during 2018 of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 34.9 32.3 Bank surcharge 8.6 8.3 Taxation effects of: Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes 0.1 0.2 Adjustments in respect of earlier years 0.1 0.4 Tax adjustments in respect of share-based payments 0.2 0.3 Impact of tax losses carried forward 0.2 Timing differences on capital items 0.4 0.1 Total taxation charge 43.5 40.8 A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and a further reduction to 18% effective from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
An additional reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This will reduce the Groups future tax charge accordingly.
138 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 12.
Earnings per share EPS are based on the profit for the period and the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Basic EPS are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS take into account share options and awards which can be converted to ordinary shares.
For the purpose of calculating EPS, profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is arrived at by adjusting profit for the year for the after-tax amounts of the coupons on PSBs and AT1 securities classified as equity.
The tax on coupons is based on the rate of taxation applicable to the Bank, including the bank surcharge: Group Group 2018 2017 m m Profit for the year 140.3 126.9 Adjustments: Coupons on PSBs and AT1 securities classified as equity 6.5 3.7 Tax on coupons 1.8 1.0 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 135.6 124.2 Exceptional items: Exceptional costHeritable option 9.8 Tax on above 2.6 Underlying profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 142.8 124.2 Group Group 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares, millions Basic 244.2 243.2 Diluted 246.2 245.1 Earnings per share, pence per share Basic 55.5 51.1 Diluted 55.0 50.7 Underlying earnings per share, pence per share Basic 58.5 51.1 Diluted 58.0 50.7 13.
Dividends During the year, the Bank paid the following dividends: Bank Bank 2018 2017 Pence Pence m per share m per share Final dividend for the prior year 22.7 9.3 18.5 7.6 Interim dividend for the current year 10.5 4.3 8.5 3.5 33.2 27.0 A summary of the Banks distributable reserves from which dividends can be paid are shown below: Bank 2018 2017 m m Net assets 535.8 475.8 Less: Share capital 2.4 2.4 Share premium 158.8 158.4 Other non-distributable reserves 88.1 93.1 2 Unrealised gains 19.8 31.9 Distributable reserves 266.7 190.0 1.
Other non-distributable reserves include the capital contribution, equity bonds and FVOCI reserve.
Unrealised gains relate to the Banks fair value adjustments on hedged assets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 The Directors propose a final dividend of 10.3 pence per share 2017: 9.3 pence payable on 15 May 2019 with an ex-dividend date of 21 March 2019 and a record date of 22 March 2019.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statements as it is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 9 May 2019.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.3 pence 2017: 3.5 pence, the total dividend for 2018 is 14.6 pence 2017: 12.8 pence per share.
Investment securities Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m UK and EU Sovereign debt 58.9 19.1 58.9 19.1 The Group had no investment securities sold under repos at the 2018 and 2017 reporting dates.
The Directors consider that the primary purpose of holding investment securities is prudential.
These securities are held as liquid assets with the intention of use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities and are classified as FVOCI.
Movements during the year of investment securities are analysed as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 19.1 141.7 Additions 79.9 Disposals and maturities 39.9 122.7 Changes in fair value 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 58.9 19.1 140 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 17.
The Group considers these loans to be encumbered.
At 31 December 2018, mortgages with a carrying value of 216.3m 2017: nil were pledged with the Bank of England under the ILTR facility.
Included within loans and advances to customers are mortgages totalling 16.0m 2017: 28.9m retained by the Group, who acts as master servicer for securitisation vehicles, to comply with the EU risk retention requirements.
The tables opposite show the movement in loans and advances to customers by IFRS 9 stage during the year.
Originations include further advances and drawdowns on existing commitments.
Repayments and write-offs include customer redemptions.
The Group did not purchase any mortgage books during 2018 2017: nil.
Finance leases The Group commenced asset finance lending in October 2018 through an existing subsidiary in the Group, InterBay Asset Finance Limited formerly 5D Lending Ltd. Group Group 2018 2017 m m Net investment in finance leases, receivable Less than one year 2.2 Between one and five years 4.9 More than 5 years 0.1 7.2 The Group has recognised 0.1m of ECLs on finance leases as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
These are included within BTL SME in note20.
142 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 20.
ECLs on originations reflect the IFRS 9 stage of loans originated during the year as at 31 December and not the date of origination.
Remeasurement of loss allowance relates to existing loans which did not redeem during the year and includes the impact of loans moving between IFRS 9 stages.
Stage 3 IAS 39 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Impairments Total Group m m m m m m At 31 December 2017 21.6 21.6 IFRS 9 transitional adjustment 7.8 2.3 13.3 1.8 21.6 3.6 Restated at 31 December 2017 7.8 2.3 13.3 1.8 25.2 Originations 2.1 2.1 Repayments and write-offs 0.3 0.2 7.0 0.2 7.7 Remeasurement of loss allowance 6.1 6.9 4.0 4.8 Transfers: To Stage 1 1.4 0.8 0.6 To Stage 2 0.8 1.3 0.5 To Stage 3 5.8 0.4 6.2 To Stage 3 POCI Changes in assumptions and model parameters 6.2 3.5 5.2 2.5 At 31 December 2018 4.5 5.6 10.2 1.6 21.9 Stage 3 IAS 39 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI Impairments Total Bank m m m m m m At 31 December 2017 15.5 15.5 IFRS 9 transitional adjustment 5.1 1.4 8.6 1.8 15.5 1.4 Restated at 31 December 2017 5.1 1.4 8.6 1.8 16.9 Originations 1.8 1.8 Repayments and write-offs 0.1 0.1 4.1 0.2 4.5 Remeasurement of loss allowance 1.7 6.8 1.6 6.7 Transfers: To Stage 1 0.9 0.4 0.5 To Stage 2 0.6 1.0 0.4 To Stage 3 4.4 0.3 4.7 To Stage 3 POCI Changes in assumptions and model parameters 2.6 3.7 3.7 4.8 At 31 December 2018 3.6 4.7 6.2 1.6 16.1 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 The table below shows the movement in the 2017 impairment provisions as measured under the IAS 39 model of specific and collective provisions: Group Bank Specific m m At 1 January 2017 23.4 17.7 Write-offs in year 7.8 5.7 Charge for the year net of recoveries 4.0 1.8 At 31 December 2017 19.6 13.8 Collective At 1 January 2017 1.6 1.4 Charge for the year net of recoveries 0.4 0.3 At 31 December 2017 2.0 1.7 Total At 1 January 2017 25.0 19.1 Write-offs in year 7.8 5.7 Charge for the year net of recoveries 4.4 2.1 At 31 December 2017 21.6 15.5 21.
Impairment losses Group Group 2018 2017 m m Write-offs in year 11.1 7.8 Disposals 0.3 Decrease in provision 3.3 3.4 8.1 4.4 22.
Derivatives The table below reconciles the gross amount of derivative contracts to the carrying balance shown in the Statement of Financial Position: Net amount of Contracts subject financial assets to master netting Cash collateral Gross amount of liabilities agreements not paid received recognised presented in the offset in the not offset in the financial assets Statement of Statement of Statement of Net liabilities Financial Position Financial Position Financial Position amount Group and Bank m m m m m At 31 December 2018 Derivative assets: Interest rate risk hedging 11.7 11.7 10.3 1.0 0.4 Derivative liabilities: Interest rate risk hedging 15.1 15.1 10.3 3.5 1.3 1 Heritable option 9.8 9.8 9.8 24.9 24.9 10.3 3.5 11.1 At 31 December 2017 Derivative assets: Interest rate risk hedging 6.1 6.1 5.9 0.2 Derivative liabilities: Interest rate risk hedging 21.8 21.8 5.9 11.8 4.1 1.
The Group has a put call option over Heritable Capital HCL as part of the development finance joint venture, as further discussed in note 10.
Included within derivative liabilities is 3.0m 2017: 4.6m of derivative contracts not covered by master netting agreements and therefore no cash collateral has been paid.
144 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 22.
Derivatives continued The table below profiles the timing of nominal amounts for interest rate risk hedging derivatives based on contractual maturity: Total Less than 312 15 More than nominal 3 months months years 5 years Group and Bank m m m m m At 31 December 2018 Derivative assets 1,999.0 106.0 330.0 1,563.0 Derivative liabilities 4,532.2 195.0 2,090.0 1,966.2 281.0 6,531.2 301.0 2,420.0 3,529.2 281.0 At 31 December 2017 Derivative assets 1,636.1 151.1 702.0 783.0 Derivative liabilities 2,493.9 129.0 1,359.7 871.2 134.0 4,130.0 280.1 2,061.7 1,654.2 134.0 The Group and Bank has 206 2017: 169 derivative contracts with an average fixed rate of 1.23% 2017: 1.20%.
Fair value adjustments on hedged items Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Hedged assets Current hedge relationships 2.5 15.9 Cancelled hedge relationships 17.3 16.0 19.8 31.9 Hedged liabilities Current hedge relationships The fair value adjustments on hedged assets in respect of cancelled hedge relationships represent the fair value adjustment for interest rate risk on legacy long-term fixed rate mortgages c. 25 years at origination where the interest rate swap hedges were terminated before maturity and were effective at the point of termination.
The movement in cancelled hedge relationships is as follows: Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 16.0 23.3 1 New cancellations 5.9 Amortisation see note 5 4.6 7.3 At 31 December 17.3 16.0 1.
Following an update of the fixed prepayment curve assumptions, a long dated swap effective prior to the update was cancelled with the designated hedge moved to cancelled hedge relationships to be amortised over the original life of the swap.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties The balances between the Bank and its subsidiaries at the reporting date are summarised in the table below: Shares in Intercompany subsidiary loans Intercompany undertakings receivable loans payable Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 1.8 982.2 1.9 982.1 Additions 298.4 29.4 269.0 Repayments 88.1 0.1 88.0 At 31 December 2017 1.8 1,192.5 31.2 1,163.1 Additions 782.4 231.4 551.0 Repayments 76.0 0.2 75.8 At 31 December 2018 1.8 1,898.9 262.4 1,638.3 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 A list of the Banks direct and indirect subsidiaries is shown below: 2018 Charged by to the Balance Bank during due to by Class of the year the Bank Direct investments shares Activity Ownership m m Easioption Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.5 Guernsey Home Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.3 13.0 Guernsey Home Loans Limited Guernsey Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.8 36.8 1 Heritable Development Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage originator and servicer 85% 1.5 0.8 Interbay Group Holdings Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% Jersey Home Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.1 2.0 Jersey Home Loans Limited Jersey Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 3.3 152.3 2 OSB India Private Limited Ordinary Back office processing 100% 6.8 5.7 Prestige Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage originator and servicer 100% 2.7 1.2 Reliance Property Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.1 3.8 Rochester Mortgages Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% Indirect investments Inter Bay Financial I Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.3 20.1 Inter Bay Financial II Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.2 6.8 Interbay Funding, Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer 100% 2.1 260.3 Interbay ML, Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 19.3 1,651.2 InterBay Holdings Ltd Ordinary Holding company 100% 5D Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage servicer 100% 0.4 InterBay Asset Finance Limited Ordinary Asset finance and mortgage provider 100% 0.1 6.2 3 formerly: 5D Lending Ltd 11.4 1,636.5 1.
Heritable Development Finance Limited is a business development partnership with HCL.
The entity is majority owned and controlled by the Bank.
It has minimal retained earnings and immaterial non-controlling interest which is not presented separately in the Group reserves.
OSB India Private Limited is owned 70.28% by the Bank, 29.72% by Easioption Limited and 0.001% by Reliance Property Loans Limited.
The Group launched its new asset finance business in 5D Lending Ltd during 2018 and renamed the subsidiary to InterBay Asset Finance Limited.
Charged 2017 by to the Balance Bank during due to by Class of the year the Bank Direct investments shares Activity Ownership m m Easioption Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.5 Guernsey Home Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.3 17.5 Guernsey Home Loans Limited Guernsey Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 1.0 46.6 Heritable Development Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage originator and servicer 85% 1.9 0.9 Interbay Group Holdings Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% Jersey Home Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.1 3.2 Jersey Home Loans Limited Jersey Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 4.3 201.4 OSB India Private Limited Ordinary Back office processing 100% 5.4 5.9 Prestige Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage originator and servicer 100% 3.2 1.3 Reliance Property Loans Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.1 4.1 Rochester Mortgages Limited Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% Indirect investments Inter Bay Financial I Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.3 19.8 Inter Bay Financial II Limited Ordinary Holding company 100% 0.2 17.7 Interbay Funding, Ltd Ordinary Mortgage servicer 100% 28.9 Interbay ML, Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 10.2 875.6 InterBay Holdings Ltd Ordinary Holding company 100% 5D Finance Limited Ordinary Mortgage servicer 100% 0.2 5D Lending Ltd Ordinary Mortgage provider 100% 0.1 6.0 1,161.3 146 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 24.
Investments in subsidiaries, intercompany loans and transactions with related parties continued All entities have the same registered address as the Company, except the following: Guernsey Home Loans Limited Guernsey 1st floor, Tudor House, Le Bordage, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1DB Jersey Home Loans Limited Jersey 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA OSB India Private Limited Salarpuria Magnificia, 9th & 10th floor, 78 Old Madras Road, Bangalore, India, 560016 All of the above investments are reviewed annually for impairment.
Based on managements assessment of the future cash flows of each entity and the support of the Bank, no impairment has been recognised.
In addition to the above subsidiaries, the Bank has transactions with Kent Reliance Provident Society KRPS, one of its founding shareholders.
KRPS runs member engagement forums for the Bank.
In exchange, the Bank provides KRPS with various services including IT, finance and other support functions.
During the year the Bank was charged for services provided by KRPS amounting to 0.2m 2017: 0.3m.
All related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
During the year there were no related party transactions between the key management personnel and the Bank other than as described below.
Transactions with key management personnel The Board considers the key management personnel to comprise the Directors.
Directors remuneration is disclosed in note 8 and in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
No loans were issued to related parties during 2018 2017: nil.
Key management personnel and connected persons held deposits with the Group of 1.7m 2017: 1.5m.
Intangible assets Intangible assets consist of computer software.
There were no capitalised costs related to the internal development of software during the period.
During the year the Group and Bank wrote-off fully depreciated assets.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 26.
During the year the Group wrote-off fully depreciated assets.
During the year the Bank wrote-off fully depreciated assets.
148 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 27.
Deferred taxation asset Group Losses IFRS 9 carried Accelerated Share-based transitional forward depreciation payments adjustments Total m m m m m At 1 January 2017 2.3 0.1 1.0 3.4 Profit or loss credit 0.2 0.5 0.7 Tax taken directly to equity 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 2.5 0.1 2.5 5.1 IFRS 9 transitional adjustments 0.7 0.7 Restated at 31 December 2017 2.5 0.1 2.5 0.7 5.8 Profit or loss credit 1.1 0.2 0.6 0.7 Transferred to corporation tax liability 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2018 1.4 0.1 1.5 0.7 3.5 Bank Losses IFRS 9 carried Accelerated Share-based transitional forward depreciation payments adjustments Total m m m m m At 1 January 2017 0.8 0.8 Profit or loss credit 0.7 0.7 Tax taken directly to equity 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 2.5 2.5 IFRS 9 transitional adjustments 0.3 0.3 Restated at 31 December 2017 2.5 0.3 2.8 Profit or loss credit 0.2 0.6 0.4 Transferred to corporation tax liability 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2018 0.2 1.5 0.3 1.6 The deferred tax has been calculated using the relevant rates for the expected periods of utilisation.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 3.5m 2017: 3.5m of losses for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and a further reduction to 18% effective from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 28.
Amounts owed to retail depositors Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Fixed rate deposits 5,155.5 4,305.6 Variable rate deposits 2,916.4 2,344.7 8,071.9 6,650.3 30.
Amounts owed to credit institutions Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Bank of England TFS 1,502.9 1,250.0 Bank of England ILTR 80.1 Swap margin received 1.0 0.3 1,584.0 1,250.3 Bank of England TFS includes 250.0m of cash movement and 2.9m of non-cash accrued interest.
Bank of England ILTR includes 80.0m of cash movement and 0.1m of non-cash accrued interest.
Amounts owed to other customers Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Fixed rate deposits 32.9 25.7 150 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 32.
FSCS and other regulatory provisions The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS provides protection of deposits for the customers of authorised financial services firms, should a firm collapse.
FSCS protects retail deposits of up to 85,000 for single account holders and 170,000 for joint holders.
The compensation paid out to consumers is initially funded through loans from the Bank of England and HM Treasury.
In order to repay the loans and cover its costs, the FSCS charges levies on firms regulated by the PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group is among those firms and pays the FSCS a levy based on its share of total UK deposits.
In accordance with IFRIC 21 interpretation of IAS 37, the FSCS liability for 2018 will be recognised in 2019.
The FSCS balance at the reporting date relates to the levy from previous years.
The Group has reviewed its current exposure to Payment Protection Insurance PPI claims and has maintained a provision of 0.4m as at 31 December 2018 2017: 0.4m.
The Group will reassess the provision once the FCA deadline for PPI claims of 29 August 2019 has passed.
The Group has increased its provision for FCA conduct rules exposures and has recognised a provision of 1.3m 2017: 0.5m to cover potential future claims.
An analysis of the Group and Banks FSCS and other provisions is presented below: Other Other regulatory regulatory Total FSCS provisions Total FSCS provisions 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2017 m m Group and Bank m m m m At 1 January 0.5 0.9 1.4 1.4 0.1 1.5 Paid during the year 0.3 0.1 0.4 1.0 1.0 Credit charge 0.1 0.9 0.8 0.1 0.8 0.9 At 31 December 0.1 1.7 1.8 0.5 0.9 1.4 34.
Subordinated liabilities Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 10.9 21.6 Repayment of debt at maturity 0.1 10.7 At 31 December 10.8 10.9 The Groups outstanding subordinated liabilities are summarised below: Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Linked to LIBOR: Floating rate subordinated loans 2022 LIBOR 5% 0.3 0.3 Floating rate subordinated loans 2022 LIBOR 2% 0.3 0.4 Fixed rate: Subordinated liabilities 2024 6.45% 5.1 5.1 Subordinated liabilities 2024 7.45% 5.1 5.1 10.8 10.9 1.
The Group has the option to call the 5.0m second tranche of the subordinated debt on 27 September 2019.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 The fixed rate subordinated liabilities are repayable at the dates stated or earlier, in full, at the option of the Group with the prior consent of the PRA.
Allsubordinated liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling and are unlisted.
The rights of repayment of the holders of these subordinated liabilities are subordinated to the claims of all depositors and all creditors.
Perpetual Subordinated Bonds Group Group and Bank and Bank 2018 2017 m m Sterling Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 15.3 The bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
They were issued with no discretion over the payment of interest and may not be settled in the Groups own equity.
They are therefore classified as financial liabilities.
The coupon rate is 5.9884% until the next reset date on 27 August 2019.
Share capital Nominal Number of value Premium shares m m At 1 January 2017 243,082,091 2.4 157.9 Shares issued under OSB employee share plans 382,597 0.5 At 31 December 2017 243,464,688 2.4 158.4 Shares issued under OSB employee share plans 1,022,849 0.4 At 31 December 2018 244,487,537 2.4 158.8 37.
Other reserves Transfer reserve The transfer reserve of 12.8m Bank: 15.2m represents the difference between the value of net assets transferred to the Group from Kent Reliance Building Society in 2011 and the value of shares issued to the A ordinary shareholders.
FVOCI reserve 2017: AFS reserve The FVOCI reserve debit of 0.1m 2017: credit of 0.1m represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of investment securities measured at FVOCI.
Perpetual Subordinated Bonds In addition to the PSBs in note 35, the Bank has issued 22.0m of PSBs which are classified as equity in accordance with the conditions contained in note 1 p. The classification of these PSBs means that any coupon payments on them are treated within retained earnings rather than through profit or loss.
The coupon rate is 4.5991% until the next reset date on 7 March 2021.
AT1 securities On 25 May 2017 OSB issued 60.0m of Fixed Rate Resetting Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities AT1 securities that qualify as Additional Tier 1 capital under the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV.
The securities will be subject to full conversion into ordinary shares of OSB in the event that its CET1 capital ratio falls below 7%.
The AT1 securities will pay interest at a rate of 9.125% per annum until the first reset date of 25 May 2022, with the reset interest rate equal to 835.9 basis points over the five-year semi-annual mid-swap rate for such a period.
Interest is paid semi-annually on 25 May and 25 November.
OSB may, at any time, cancel any interest payment at its full discretion and must cancel interest payments in certain circumstances specified in the terms and conditions of the AT1 securities.
The AT1 securities are perpetual with no fixed redemption date.
OSB may, in its discretion and subject to satisfying certain conditions, redeem all but not some of the AT1 securities at the principal amount outstanding plus any accrued but unpaid interest from the first reset date and on any interest payment date thereafter.
Transaction costs related to the AT1 securities issuance are recognised directly in equity within retained earnings together with the related tax.
152 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 38.
Financial commitments and guarantees a As at 31 December 2018, the Groups contracted or anticipated capital expenditure commitments not provided for amounted to 0.2m 2017: 0.3m.
2018 consists of refurbishment and fixture costs for the relocation of the InterBay office.
2017 consisted of branch refurbishment costs.
b The Groups minimum lease commitments under operating leases are summarised in the table below: Group Group Bank Bank 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Land and buildings: due within: One year 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.3 Two to five years 2.3 1.0 1.5 0.8 More than five years 1.5 0.5 4.5 1.5 2.5 1.1 c Undrawn loan facilities: Group Group Bank Bank 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m BTL SME mortgages 622.8 485.9 406.0 390.5 Residential mortgages 81.8 44.3 81.8 44.3 Asset Finance 6.1 710.7 530.2 487.8 434.8 Undrawn loan facilities are approved loan applications which have not yet been exercised.
They are payable on demand and are usually drawn down or expire within three months.
d The Group did not have any issued financial guarantees as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Risk management Overview Financial instruments form the vast majority of the Groups and Banks assets and liabilities.
The Group manages risk on a consolidated basis, and risk disclosures are provided on this basis.
Types of financial instrument Financial instruments are a broad definition which includes financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments.
The main financial assets of the Group are loans to customers and liquid assets, which in turn, consist of cash in the Bank of England call account, call accounts with other credit institutions and UK and EU sovereign debt.
These are funded by a combination of financial liabilities and equity instruments.
Financial liability funding comes predominantly from retail deposits and drawdowns under the Bank of England TFS, supported by debt securities, subordinated debt, wholesale and other funding.
Equity instruments include own shares, perpetual bonds and AT1 securities meeting the equity classification criteria.
The Groups main activity is mortgage lending: it raises funds or invests in particular types of financial assets primarily in order to satisfy banking industry regulations and manage the risks arising from its operations.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group uses derivative instruments to manage its financial risks.
Derivative financial instruments derivatives are financial instruments whose value changes in response to changes in underlying variables such as interest rates.
Typically, the contract value of derivatives is much smaller than that of the instruments they relate to, which makes them a convenient tool for benefiting from value changes without the need to buy or sell the whole underlying product.
The most common derivatives comprise futures, forwards and swaps.
Among these, the Group only uses swaps.
Derivatives are used by the Group solely to reduce hedge the risk of loss arising from changes in market factors.
Derivatives are not used for speculative purposes.
Types of derivatives and uses The derivative instruments used by the Group in managing its risk exposures are interest rate swaps.
Interest rate swaps convert fixed interest rates to floating or vice versa.
As with other derivatives, the underlying product is not sold and payments are based on notional principal amounts.
Unhedged fixed rate liabilities create the risk of paying above-the-market rate if interest rates subsequently decrease.
Unhedged fixed rate mortgages and liquid assets bear the opposite risk of earning below-the-market income when rates go up.
While fixed rate assets and liabilities naturally hedge each other to a certain extent, this hedge is usually never balanced.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 The Group uses swaps to convert its instruments, such as mortgages, deposits and liquid assets, from fixed or base rate-linked rates to LIBOR-linked variable rates.
This ensures a guaranteed margin between the interest income and interest expense, regardless of changes in the market rates.
The PRA and FCA have continued to encourage banks to transition away from using LIBOR as a benchmark in all operations before the end of 2021.
Throughout the UK banking sector LIBOR remains a key benchmark and for each market impacted solutions to this issue are progressing through various industry bodies.
In 2018 the Group set up an internal working group comprised of all of the key business lines that are involved with this change with strong oversight from the compliance and risk departments.
Risk assessments are currently underway to ensure this process is managed in a measured and controlled fashion.
Types of risk The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are credit, liquidity and market risks, the latter comprising interest and exchange rate risk.
In addition to financial risks, the Group is exposed to various other risks, most notably operational, conduct and regulatory, which are covered in the Risk review on pages 41 to 46. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that unexpected losses may arise as a result of the Groups borrowers or market counterparties failing to meet their obligations to repay.
The Group has adopted the Standardised Approach for assessment of credit risk capital requirements.
This approach considers risk weightings as defined under Basel II and Basel III principles.
The classes of financial instruments to which the Group is most exposed are loans and advances to customers, loans and advances to credit institutions, cash in the Bank of England call account, call and current accounts with other credit institutions and investment securities.
The maximum credit risk exposure equals the total carrying amount of the above categories plus off-balance sheet undrawn mortgage facilities.
Credit risk loans and advances to customers Credit risk associated with mortgage lending is largely driven by the housing market and level of unemployment.
A recession and or high interest rates could cause pressure within the market, resulting in rising levels of arrears and repossessions.
All loan applications are assessed with reference to the Groups lending policy.
Changes to the policy are approved by the Board, with mandates set for the approval of loan applications.
The Credit Committee and ALCO regularly monitor lending activity, taking appropriate actions to reprice products and adjust lending criteria in order to control risk and manage exposure.
Where necessary and appropriate, changes to the lending policy are recommended to the Risk Committee and the Board.
The following tables show the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk and the impact of collateral held as security, capped at the gross exposure amount, by impairment stage.
Capped collateral excludes the impact of forced sale discounts and costs to sell.
Group 2018 Group 2017 Gross Capped Gross Capped carrying collateral carrying collateral amount held amount held m m m m Stage 1 8,286.8 8,274.5 Stage 2 436.8 436.8 Stage 3 225.4 224.2 Stage 3 POCI 56.2 56.1 IAS 39 7,327.6 7,313.5 9,005.2 8,991.6 7,327.6 7,313.5 Bank 2018 Bank 2017 Gross Capped Gross Capped carrying collateral carrying collateral amount held amount held m m m m Stage 1 6,657.0 6,653.2 Stage 2 346.6 346.5 Stage 3 164.8 164.7 Stage 3 POCI 55.9 55.8 IAS 39 6,065.4 6,053.6 7,224.3 7,220.2 6,065.4 6,053.6 154 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
Risk management continued The Groups collateral held in relation to BTL SME and Residential first and second charge mortgage loans is property, based in the UK and the Channel Islands.
The Groups collateral held in relation to funding lines is predominantly property.
The Groups personal loan portfolio, which was sold in June 2018, was unsecured.
The Group uses indexed loan-to-value LTV ratios to assess the quality of the uncapped collateral held.
Property values are updated to reflect changes in the HPI.
Risk management continued Analysis of mortgage portfolio by arrears and collateral held The tables below provide further information on collateral, capped at the value of each individual mortgage, over the mortgage portfolio by payment due status and IFRS 9 stage.
The 2017 comparatives are disclosed by IAS 39 impairment stage, where impaired is defined as loans with a specific provision against them.
Mortgages with properties in possession are not considered impaired if the fair value of collateral exceeds the value of debt.
Impaired is defined as loans with a specific provision against them.
160 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
Forbearance measures undertaken The Group has a range of options available where borrowers experience financial difficulties which impact their ability to service their financial commitments under the loan agreement.
These are explained in the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 41 to 46.
A summary of the forbearance measures undertaken during the year is shown below: At At Number of 31 December Number of 31 December accounts 2018 accounts 2017 Forbearance type 2018 m 2017 m Interest-only switch 26 3.7 35 3.8 Interest rate reduction 5 0.8 Term extension 33 3.5 29 4.9 Payment holiday 31 0.6 50 1.5 Voluntary assisted sale 4 0.1 2 0.7 Payment concession reduced monthly payments 75 3.5 42 0.8 Total 174 12.2 158 11.7 At At Number of 31 December Number of 31 December accounts 2018 accounts 2017 Loan type 2018 m 2017 m First charge owner occupier 40 3.4 55 4.5 Second charge owner occupier 106 2.9 77 1.6 Buy-to-Let 28 5.9 26 5.6 Total 174 12.2 158 11.7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Geographical analysis by region An analysis of loans by region is provided below: Group 2018 Group 2017 Region m % m % East Anglia 316.4 4 236.4 3 East Midlands 325.4 4 249.6 4 Greater London 3,965.5 43 3,173.0 43 Guernsey 61.7 1 73.8 1 Jersey 176.0 2 225.1 3 North East 115.6 1 103.0 1 North West 447.6 5 347.9 5 Northern Ireland 14.6 16.9 Scotland 45.2 1 51.1 1 South East 1,955.1 22 1,591.7 22 South West 634.2 7 522.3 7 Wales 187.1 2 142.9 2 West Midlands 557.5 6 425.4 6 Yorks and Humberside 203.3 2 167.4 2 Total mortgages before provisions 9,005.2 100 7,326.5 100 Personal loans 1.1 Total loans before provisions 9,005.2 7,327.6 Bank 2018 Bank 2017 Region m % m % East Anglia 267.3 4 212.4 4 East Midlands 245.5 3 203.8 3 Greater London 3,270.7 45 2,726.9 45 North East 94.7 1 86.3 1 North West 346.9 5 277.0 5 Northern Ireland 14.4 16.5 Scotland 44.0 1 50.3 1 South East 1,667.9 24 1,426.6 24 South West 515.5 7 439.1 7 Wales 151.3 2 126.1 2 West Midlands 454.9 6 374.6 6 Yorks and Humberside 151.2 2 125.8 2 Total mortgages before provisions 7,224.3 100 6,065.4 100 Personal loans 1.1 Total loans before provisions 7,224.3 6,066.5 Credit risk Loans and advances to credit institutions and investment securities The Group holds treasury instruments in order to meet liquidity requirements and for general business purposes.
The credit risk arising from these investments is closely monitored and managed by the Groups treasury department.
In managing these assets, Group treasury operates within guidelines laid down in the treasury policy approved by the Board and performance is monitored and reported to ALCO monthly, including through the use of an internally developed rating model based on counterparty credit default swap spreads.
The Group has limited exposure to emerging markets Indian operations and non-investment grade debt.
ALCO is responsible for approving treasury counterparties.
During the year, the average balance of cash in hand, loans and advances to credit institutions and investment securities on a monthly basis was 1,296.1m 2017: 710.7m.
166 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
Risk management continued The following table presents the credit quality of Groups assets exposed to credit risk.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Fitch, Moodys or Standard & Poors.
Balances with the Bank of England include 20.0m 2017: 10.0m held in the cash ratio deposit.
The below tables show the industry sector and asset class of the Groups loans and advances to credit institutions and investment securities: Group 2018 Group 2017 m % m % 1 Bank of England 1,315.2 94 1,146.9 95 Other banks 32.1 2 40.3 3 Central government 39.8 3 Supranationals 19.1 1 19.1 2 Total 1,406.2 100 1,206.3 100 Bank 2018 Bank 2017 m % m % 1 Bank of England 1,315.2 94 1,146.9 96 Other banks 24.8 2 32.4 3 Central government 39.8 3 Supranationals 19.1 1 19.1 1 Total 1,398.9 100 1,198.4 100 1.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 The below tables show the geographical exposure of the Groups loans and advances to credit institutions and investment securities: Group 2018 Group 2017 m % m % United Kingdom 1,380.5 98 1,181.0 98 Rest of Europe 19.1 2 19.1 2 Canada 0.2 India 6.6 6.0 Total 1,406.2 100 1,206.3 100 Bank 2018 Bank 2017 m % m % United Kingdom 1,379.8 99 1,179.1 98 Rest of Europe 19.1 1 19.1 2 Canada 0.2 Total 1,398.9 100 1,198.4 100 The Group monitors exposure concentrations against a variety of criteria, including asset class, sector and geography.
To avoid refinancing risks associated with any one counterparty, sector or geographical region, the Board has set appropriate limits.
These are contained in the treasury policy.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of having insufficient liquid assets to fulfil obligations as they become due or the cost of raising liquid funds becoming too expensive.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity risk is to maintain sufficient liquid resources to cover cash flow imbalances and fluctuations in funding in order to retain full public confidence in the solvency of the Group and to enable the Group to meet its financial obligations.
This is achieved through maintaining a prudent level of liquid assets and control of the growth of the business.
The Group has established a call account with the Bank of England and has access to its contingent liquidity facilities.
Liquidity management is the responsibility of ALCO, with day-to-day management delegated to treasury as detailed in the treasury policy.
ALCO is responsible for setting limits over the level and maturity profile of wholesale funding and for monitoring the composition of the Group financial position.
For each material class of financial liability a contractual maturity analysis is provided below.
The Group also monitors a range of numeric triggers, defined in the contingency funding plan and recovery and resolution plan, which are designed to capture liquidity stresses in advance in order to allow sufficient time for management action to take effect.
These are monitored daily by the Risk team, with breaches immediately reported to the CRO, CEO, CFO and the Head of Treasury.
The tables below provide a contractual maturity analysis of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: Carrying Less than 312 15 More than Group amount On demand 3 months months years 5 years 2018 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 2,538.2 880.6 3,008.3 1,644.8 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1.0 40.1 40.0 1,502.9 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 10.5 22.4 Derivative liabilities 24.9 0.1 11.3 7.0 6.5 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 0.2 0.1 0.5 10.0 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 0.3 15.0 Total liabilities 9,739.8 2,539.2 931.8 3,082.1 3,155.2 31.5 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,347.3 1,327.3 20.0 Investment securities 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 8,983.3 176.0 270.4 522.9 8,014.0 Derivative assets 11.7 11.7 Total assets 10,401.6 1,327.7 176.0 329.3 534.6 8,034.0 168 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
Risk management continued Carrying Less than 312 15 More than Group amount On demand 3 months months years 5 years 2017 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 6,650.3 2,051.8 862.0 2,590.7 1,145.8 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,250.3 0.3 1,250.0 Amounts owed to other customers 25.7 0.5 25.2 Derivative liabilities 21.8 0.1 1.6 4.7 15.4 Subordinated liabilities 10.9 0.2 0.1 0.6 10.0 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 0.3 15.0 Total liabilities 7,974.3 2,052.1 863.1 2,617.6 2,401.1 40.4 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,187.2 1,177.2 10.0 Investment securities 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 7,306.0 139.0 224.2 307.7 6,635.1 Derivative assets 6.1 0.2 5.9 Total assets 8,518.9 1,177.7 139.0 224.4 332.7 6,645.1 Carrying Less than 312 15 More than Bank amount On demand 3 months months years 5 years 2018 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 2,538.2 880.6 3,008.3 1,644.8 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1.0 40.1 40.0 1,502.9 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 10.5 22.4 Derivative liabilities 24.9 0.1 11.3 7.0 6.5 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 0.2 0.1 0.5 10.0 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 0.3 15.0 Total liabilities 9,739.8 2,539.2 931.8 3,082.1 3,155.2 31.5 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,340.0 1,320.0 20.0 Investment securities 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 7,208.2 131.8 165.1 232.4 6,678.9 Derivative assets 11.7 11.7 Total assets 8,619.2 1,320.4 131.8 224.0 244.1 6,698.9 Carrying Less than 312 15 More than Bank amount On demand 3 months months years 5 years 2017 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 6,650.3 2,051.8 862.0 2,590.7 1,145.8 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,250.3 0.3 1,250.0 Amounts owed to other customers 25.7 0.5 25.2 Derivative liabilities 21.8 0.1 1.6 4.7 15.4 Subordinated liabilities 10.9 0.2 0.1 0.6 10.0 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 0.3 15.0 Total liabilities 7,974.3 2,052.1 863.1 2,617.6 2,401.1 40.4 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,179.3 1,169.3 10.0 Investment securities 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 6,051.0 118.7 158.4 150.6 5,623.3 Derivative assets 6.1 0.2 5.9 Total assets 7,256.0 1,169.8 118.7 158.6 175.6 5,633.3 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Liquidity risk contractual cash flows The following tables provide an analysis of the Groups gross contractual cash flows, derived using interest rates and contractual maturities at the reporting date and excluding impacts of early payments or non-payments: Carrying Gross inflow Up to 312 15 More than amount outflow 3 months months years 5 years Group 2018 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 8,479.5 3,433.0 3,236.7 1,809.8 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 1,616.9 1,646.2 54.5 71.2 1,520.5 Derivative liabilities 24.9 27.1 3.3 15.6 5.0 3.2 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 15.0 0.3 0.4 3.6 10.7 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 19.4 0.4 0.4 3.6 15.0 Total liabilities 9,739.8 10,187.2 3,491.5 3,324.3 3,342.5 28.9 Off balance sheet loan commitments 710.7 710.7 710.7 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,347.3 1,347.3 1,327.3 20.0 Investment securities 58.9 59.0 59.0 Loans and advances to customers 8,983.3 18,311.2 183.6 841.5 2,649.6 14,636.5 Derivative assets 11.7 12.2 0.4 1.0 10.8 Total assets 10,401.6 19,730.1 1,511.7 901.5 2,660.4 14,656.5 Cumulative liquidity gap 1,979.8 4,402.6 5,084.7 9,542.9 Carrying Gross inflow Up to 312 15 More than amount outflow 3 months months years 5 years Group 2017 m m m m m m Financial liability by type Amounts owed to retail depositors 6,650.3 6,877.4 2,927.1 2,723.0 1,227.3 Amounts owed to credit institutions and other customers 1,276.0 1,296.5 1.9 29.5 1,265.1 Derivative liabilities 21.8 21.7 1.2 4.8 8.2 7.5 Subordinated liabilities 10.9 13.9 0.2 0.5 7.5 5.7 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 19.4 0.4 0.4 3.6 15.0 Total liabilities 7,974.3 8,228.9 2,930.8 2,758.2 2,511.7 28.2 Off balance sheet loan commitments 530.2 530.2 530.2 Financial asset by type Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,187.2 1,187.2 1,177.2 10.0 Investment securities 19.1 19.1 0.1 19.0 Loans and advances to customers 7,306.0 14,732.0 257.6 545.9 2,130.4 11,798.1 Derivative assets 6.1 6.1 0.1 6.2 Total assets 8,518.9 15,944.9 1,435.3 545.9 2,155.6 11,808.1 Cumulative liquidity gap 1,495.5 3,707.8 4,063.9 7,716.0 170 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
The actual repayment profile of loans and advances to customers may differ from the analysis above since many mortgage loans are repaid prior to the contractual end date.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Liquidity risk asset encumbrance Asset encumbrance levels are monitored by ALCO.
The following tables provide an analysis of the Groups encumbered and unencumbered assets: Group 2018 Encumbered Unencumbered Pledged as Available as 2 collateral Other collateral Other Total m m m m m Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 3.5 20.0 1,295.2 28.6 1,347.3 Investment securities 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 2,846.0 16.0 6,121.3 8,983.3 Derivative assets 11.7 11.7 Non-financial assets 58.6 58.6 2,849.5 36.0 1,354.5 6,220.2 10,460.2 Group 2017 Encumbered Unencumbered Pledged as Available as 2 collateral Other collateral Other Total m m m m m Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 11.8 10.0 1,136.9 28.5 1,187.2 Investment securities 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 2,303.2 28.9 4,973.9 7,306.0 Derivative assets 6.1 6.1 Non-financial assets 70.2 70.2 2,315.0 38.9 1,156.5 5,078.7 8,589.1 1.
Represents assets that are not pledged but that the Group believes it is restricted from using to secure funding for legal or other reasons.
Represents assets that are not restricted for use as collateral, but the Group treats as available as collateral once they are readily available to secure funding in the normal course of business.
Bank 2018 Encumbered Unencumbered Pledged as Available as 2 collateral Other collateral Other Total m m m m m Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 3.5 20.0 1,295.2 21.3 1,340.0 Investment securities 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 2,846.0 16.0 4,346.2 7,208.2 Derivative assets 11.7 11.7 Non-financial assets 1,950.3 1,950.3 2,849.5 36.0 1,354.5 6,329.5 10,569.5 Bank 2017 Encumbered Unencumbered Pledged as Available as 2 collateral Other collateral Other Total m m m m m Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 11.8 10.0 1,136.9 20.6 1,179.3 Investment securities 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 2,303.2 28.9 3,718.9 6,051.0 Derivative assets 6.1 6.1 Non-financial assets 1,254.9 1,254.9 2,315.0 38.9 1,156.5 5,000.5 8,510.9 1.
172 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39.
Risk management continued Liquidity risk liquidity reserves The tables below analyse the Groups liquidity reserves, where carrying value is considered to be equal to fair value: Group Group 2018 2017 m m Unencumbered balances with central banks 1,295.2 1,136.9 Unencumbered cash and balances with other banks 28.6 28.5 Other cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.5 Unencumbered investment securities 58.9 19.1 1,383.1 1,185.0 Bank Bank 2018 2017 m m Unencumbered balances with central banks 1,295.2 1,136.9 Unencumbered cash and balances with other banks 21.3 20.6 Other cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.4 Unencumbered investment securities 58.9 19.1 1,375.8 1,177.0 Market risk Market risk is the risk of an adverse change in the Groups income or the Groups net worth arising from movement in interest rates, exchange rates or other market prices.
Market risk exists, to some extent, in all the Groups businesses.
The Group recognises that the effective management of market risk is essential to the maintenance of stable earnings and preservation of shareholder value.
Interest rate risk The primary market risk faced by the Group is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is the risk of loss from adverse movement in the overall level of interest rates.
It arises from mismatches in the timing of repricing of assets and liabilities, both on and off balance sheet.
It is most prevalent in mortgage lending where fixed rate mortgages are not funded by fixed rate deposits of the same duration, or where the fixed rate risk is not hedged by a fully matching interest rate derivative.
Exposure is mitigated on a continuous basis through the use of derivatives and reserve allocations.
The Group measures interest rate risk using the impact of 14 different interest rate curve shift scenarios on the Groups economic value of equity.
These 14 scenarios are defined by ALCO and are based on three shapes of curve movement shift, twist and flex.
Historical data is used to calibrate the severity of the scenarios to the Groups risk appetite.
The Board has set a limit on interest risk exposure of 2.25% of CET1 as at 31 December 2018 2017: 1.5%.
In addition, the regulatory scenario of an unfloored parallel shift of 200bps in both directions is applied.
After taking into account the derivatives entered into by the Group, the maximum decrease under these scenarios as at 31 December 2018 would have been 5.6m 2017: 3.2m and the maximum increase 1.8m 2017: 1.2m.
Against a parallel interest rate increase of 2%, the impact would have been a decrease of 9.3m 2017: 2.8m decrease.
In Q1 2019 the scenarios have been updated to fully incorporate the EBA guidance on the management of interest rate risk published in July 2018.
The interest rate sensitivity is impacted by behavioural assumptions used by the Group, the most significant of which are prepayments and reserve allocations.
Expected prepayments are modelled based on historical analysis and current market rates.
The reserve allocation strategy is approved by ALCO and set to reflect the current balance sheet and future plans.
There is no material difference between the interest rate risk profile for the Group and that for the Bank.
The Group is also exposed to basis risk.
Basis risk is the risk of loss from an adverse divergence in interest rates.
It arises where assets and liabilities reprice from different variable rate indices.
These indices may be market rates e. g. Bank Base Rate or LIBOR or administered e. g. the Groups SVR, other discretionary variable rates, or that received on call accounts with other banks.
The Group measures basis risk using the impact of five scenarios on net interest income over a one year period including movements such as diverging Base and LIBOR rates.
The Board has set a limit on basis risk exposure of 2.25% of CET1 as at 31 December 2018.
As at 31 December 2018 the Groups assets and liabilities were broadly matched under the basis risk scenarios and comfortably within limits.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has limited exposure to foreign exchange risk in respect of its Indian operations.
A 5% movement in exchange rates would result in 0.3m 2017: 0.2m effect in profit or loss and 0.3m 2017: 0.3m in equity.
The Bank is not exposed to foreign exchange risk since all its assets and liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Structured entities The Group had no structured entities as at 31 December 2018 and as at 31 December 2017.
Financial instruments and fair values i.
Financial assets and financial liabilities The following tables summarise the classification and carrying value of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities: 2018 Fair value through Amortised Total carrying profit or loss FVOCI cost amount Group Note m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15 1,347.3 1,347.3 Investment securities 16 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 17 8,983.3 8,983.3 Derivative assets 22 11.7 11.7 11.7 58.9 10,331.0 10,401.6 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 29 8,071.9 8,071.9 Amounts owed to credit institutions 30 1,584.0 1,584.0 Amounts owed to other customers 31 32.9 32.9 Derivative liabilities 22 24.9 24.9 Subordinated liabilities 34 10.8 10.8 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 35 15.3 15.3 24.9 9,714.9 9,739.8 2017 Fair value through profit Available-forLoans and Amortised Total carrying or loss sale receivables cost amount Group Note m m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15 1,187.2 1,187.2 Investment securities 16 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 17 7,306.0 7,306.0 Derivative assets 22 6.1 6.1 6.1 19.1 8,493.7 8,518.9 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 29 6,650.3 6,650.3 Amounts owed to credit institutions 30 1,250.3 1,250.3 Amounts owed to other customers 31 25.7 25.7 Derivative liabilities 22 21.8 21.8 Subordinated liabilities 34 10.9 10.9 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 35 15.3 15.3 21.8 7,952.5 7,974.3 174 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40.
Financial instruments and fair values continued 2018 Fair value through Amortised Total carrying profit or loss FVOCI cost amount Bank Note m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15 1,340.0 1,340.0 Investment securities 16 58.9 58.9 Loans and advances to customers 17 7,208.2 7,208.2 Derivative assets 22 11.7 11.7 11.7 58.9 8,548.6 8,619.2 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 29 8,071.9 8,071.9 Amounts owed to credit institutions 30 1,584.0 1,584.0 Amounts owed to other customers 31 32.9 32.9 Derivative liabilities 22 24.9 24.9 Subordinated liabilities 34 10.8 10.8 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 35 15.3 15.3 24.9 9,714.9 9,739.8 2017 Fair value through profit Available-forLoans and Amortised Total carrying or loss sale receivables cost amount Bank Note m m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 15 1,179.3 1,179.3 Investment securities 16 19.1 19.1 Loans and advances to customers 17 6,051.0 6,051.0 Derivative assets 22 6.1 6.1 6.1 19.1 7,230.8 7,256.0 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 29 6,650.3 6,650.3 Amounts owed to credit institutions 30 1,250.3 1,250.3 Amounts owed to other customers 31 25.7 25.7 Derivative liabilities 22 21.8 21.8 Subordinated liabilities 34 10.9 10.9 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 35 15.3 15.3 21.8 7,952.5 7,974.3 The Group has no financial assets nor financial liabilities classified as held for trading or held to maturity.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 ii.
Fair values The following tables summarise the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial instruments not measured at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position: Group 2018 Group 2017 Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated value fair value value fair value m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,347.3 1,347.3 1,187.2 1,187.2 Loans and advances to customers 8,983.3 9,151.1 7,306.0 7,715.4 10,331.0 10,498.8 8,493.7 8,903.1 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 8,097.5 6,650.3 6,684.0 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1,584.0 1,250.3 1,250.3 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 32.9 25.7 25.7 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 10.8 10.9 11.1 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 14.3 15.3 15.3 9,714.9 9,739.5 7,952.5 7,986.4 Bank 2018 Bank 2017 Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated value fair value value fair value m m m m Assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,340.0 1,340.0 1,179.3 1,179.3 Loans and advances to customers 7,208.2 7,340.1 6,051.0 6,408.4 8,548.6 8,680.5 7,230.8 7,588.2 Liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 8,097.5 6,650.3 6,684.0 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1,584.0 1,250.3 1,250.3 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 32.9 25.7 25.7 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 10.8 10.9 11.1 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 14.3 15.3 15.3 9,714.9 9,739.5 7,952.5 7,986.4 The fair values in this table are estimated using the valuation techniques below.
The estimated fair value is stated as at 31 December and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of each financial instrument.
Cash in hand This represents physical cash across the Groups branch network where fair value is considered to be equal to carrying value.
Loans and advances to credit institutions This mainly represents the Groups working capital current accounts and call accounts with central governments and other banks with an original maturity of less than three months.
Fair value is not considered to be materially different to carrying value.
Loans and advances to customers This mainly represents secured mortgage lending to customers.
The fair value of fixed rate mortgages has been estimated by discounting future cash flows at current market rates of interest.
Future cash flows include the impact of expected credit losses.
The interest rate on variable rate mortgages is considered to be equal to current market product rates and as such fair value is estimated to be equal to carrying value.
Amounts owed to retail depositors The fair value of fixed rate retail deposits has been estimated by discounting future cash flows at current market rates of interest.
Retail deposits at variable rates and deposits payable on demand are considered to be at current market rates and as such fair value is estimated to be equal to carrying value.
176 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40.
Financial instruments and fair values continued Amounts owed to credit institutions This mainly represents amounts drawn down under the Bank of England TFS.
Fair value is considered to be equal to carrying value.
Amounts owed to other customers This represents fixed rate saving products to corporations and local authorities with original maturities greater than three months.
The fair value is estimated by discounting future cash flows at current market rates of interest.
Subordinated liabilities and Perpetual Subordinated Bonds The fair value of subordinated liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flows at current market rates of interest.
The PSBs are listed on the London Stock Exchange with fair value being the quoted market price at the reporting date.
Fair value classification The following tables provide an analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Carrying Principal amount amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group and Bank 2018 m m m m m m Financial assets Investment securities 58.9 59.0 58.9 58.9 Derivative assets 11.7 1,999.0 11.7 11.7 70.6 2,058.0 58.9 11.7 70.6 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 24.9 4,532.2 24.9 24.9 Group and Bank 2017 Financial assets Investment securities 19.1 19.0 19.1 19.1 Derivative assets 6.1 1,636.1 6.1 6.1 25.2 1,655.1 19.1 6.1 25.2 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities 21.8 2,493.9 21.8 21.8 Level 1: Fair values that are based entirely on quoted market prices unadjusted in an actively traded market for identical assets and liabilities that the Group has the ability to access.
Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments.
Since valuations are based on readily available observable market prices, this makes them most reliable, reduces the need for management judgement and estimation and also reduces the uncertainty associated with determining fair values.
Level 2: Fair values that are based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are taken from directly or indirectly observable market data.
These include valuation models used to calculate the present value of expected future cash flows and may be employed either when no active market exists or when there are no quoted prices available for similar instruments in active markets.
Level 3: Fair values for which any one or more significant input is not based on observable market data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments fair value.
Valuation models that employ significant unobservable inputs require a higher degree of management judgement and estimation in determining the fair value.
Management judgement and estimation are usually required for the selection of the appropriate valuation model to be used, determination of expected future cash flows on the financial instruments being valued, determination of the probability of counterparty default and prepayments, determination of expected volatilities and correlations and the selection of appropriate discount rates.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 The following table provides an analysis of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Estimated fair value Carrying Principal amount amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group 2018 m m m m m m Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,347.3 1,346.9 1,347.3 1,347.3 Loans and advances to customers 8,983.3 9,121.4 4,195.3 4,955.8 9,151.1 10,331.0 10,468.7 5,543.0 4,955.8 10,498.8 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 8,019.7 2,916.4 5,181.1 8,097.5 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1,581.0 1,584.0 1,584.0 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 32.8 32.9 32.9 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 10.6 10.8 10.8 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 15.0 14.3 14.3 9,714.9 9,659.1 14.3 4,511.2 5,214.0 9,739.5 Group 2017 Financial assets Cash in hand 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,187.2 1,187.2 1,187.2 1,187.2 Loans and advances to customers 7,306.0 7,441.9 2,788.8 4,926.6 7,715.4 8,493.7 8,629.6 3,976.5 4,926.6 8,903.1 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 6,650.3 6,610.1 2,474.4 4,209.6 6,684.0 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,250.3 1,250.3 1,250.3 1,250.3 Amounts owed to other customers 25.7 25.5 25.7 25.7 Subordinated liabilities 10.9 10.7 11.1 11.1 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 15.0 15.3 15.3 7,952.5 7,911.6 15.3 3,735.8 4,235.3 7,986.4 Estimated fair value Carrying Principal amount amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Bank 2018 m m m m m m Financial assets Cash in hand 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Loans and advances to credit institutions 1,340.0 1,339.7 1,340.0 1,340.0 Loans and advances to customers 7,208.2 7,337.6 3,123.7 4,216.4 7,340.1 8,548.6 8,677.7 4,464.1 4,216.4 8,680.5 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to retail depositors 8,071.9 8,019.7 2,916.0 5,181.1 8,097.5 Amounts owed to credit institutions 1,584.0 1,581.0 1,584.0 1,584.0 Amounts owed to other customers 32.9 32.8 32.9 32.9 Subordinated liabilities 10.8 10.6 10.8 10.8 Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 15.3 15.0 14.3 14.3 9,714.9 9,659.1 14.3 4,511.2 5,214.0 9,739.5 178 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40.
Pension scheme Defined contribution scheme The amount charged to profit or loss in respect of contributions to the Groups defined contribution and stakeholder pension arrangements is the contribution payable in the period.
The total pension cost in the year amounted to 1.7m 2017: 1.3m.
Defined benefit scheme Kent Reliance Building Society the Society operated a defined benefit pension scheme the Scheme funded by the payment of contributions to a separately administered fund for nine retired members.
The Societys Board decided to close the Scheme with effect from 31 December 2001 and introduced a new defined contribution scheme to cover service for Scheme members from 1 January 2002.
The Scheme Trustees, having taken actuarial advice, decided to wind up the Scheme rather than continue to operate it on a paid up basis.
The winding up is largely complete.
As at 31 December 2018 the liability to remaining members is 2k 31 December 2017: 2k matched by Scheme assets.
Capital management The Groups prime objectives in relation to the management of capital are to provide a sufficient capital base to cover business risks and support future business development.
The Group is compliant with the requirements set out by the PRA, the Groups primary prudential supervisor.
Capital management is based on the three pillars of Basel II.
Under Pillar 1, the Group calculates its minimum capital requirements based on 8% of risk weighted assets.
The PRA then applies a multiplier to this amount to cover risks under Pillar 2 of Basel II and generates an individual capital guidance ICG.
The Group manages and reports its capital on a solo consolidated basis and hence the Banks capital position is not disclosed separately.
To comply with Pillar 2, the Group completes an annual self-assessment of risks known as the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP reviewed by the PRA.
Pillar 3 requires firms to publish a set of disclosures which allow market participants to assess information on that firms capital, risk exposures and risk assessment process.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures can be found on the Groups website.
Basel III came into force through the CRD IV.
Basel III complements and enhances Basel I and II with additional safety measures.
Basel III changed definitions of regulatory capital, introduced new capital buffers and liquidity ratios, and modified the way regulatory capital is calculated.
The ultimate responsibility for capital adequacy rests with the Board of Directors.
The Groups ALCO, which consists of the CEO, CFO and other senior executives, is responsible for the management of the capital process including approving policy, overseeing internal controls and setting internal limits over capital ratios.
The Group actively manages its capital position and reports this on a regular basis to senior management via the ALCO and other governance committees.
Capital requirements are included within budgets, forecasts and strategic plans with initiatives being executed against this plan.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 The Groups Pillar 1 capital information is presented below: Unaudited Unaudited 2018 2017 m m Common Equity Tier 1 capital Called up share capital 2.4 2.4 Share premium, capital contribution and share-based payment reserve 170.0 169.8 Retained earnings 439.6 337.5 Transfer reserve 12.8 12.8 Other reserves 0.5 0.1 Total equity excluding equity bonds 598.7 496.8 Foreseeable dividends 25.2 22.6 1 Solo consolidation adjustments 5.4 4.8 2 IFRS 9 transitional adjustment 2.7 Deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 capital 3 Prudent valuation adjustment 0.1 Intangible assets 7.7 6.8 Deferred tax asset 1.4 2.5 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 561.6 460.1 Additional tier 1 capital AT1 securities 60.0 60.0 Total tier 1 capital 621.6 520.1 Tier 2 capital Subordinated debt and PSBs 47.4 47.7 Collective provisions 2.0 Deductions from tier 2 capital 3.3 2.5 Total tier 2 capital 44.1 47.2 Total regulatory capital 665.7 567.3 Risk weighted assets unaudited 4,211.8 3,348.5 1.
The Bank has solo consolidation waivers for most of its subsidiaries.
The equity for unconsolidated entities has been removed from CET1.
The regulatory capital includes a 2.7m add-back under IFRS 9 transitional arrangements.
This represents 95% of the IFRS 9 transitional adjustment booked directly to retained earnings of 2.9m.
The full impact of IFRS 9, if applied, would reduce total regulatory capital to 663.0m.
The Group has adopted the simplified approach under the Prudent Valuation rules, recognising a deduction equal to 0.1% of fair value assets and liabilities.
The movement in CET1 during the year was as follows: Unaudited Unaudited 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 460.1 365.6 Movement in retained earnings 102.1 96.8 Share premium from Sharesave Scheme vesting 0.4 0.5 Movement in other reserves 0.6 3.1 Movement in foreseeable dividends 2.6 4.1 Movement in solo consolidation adjustment 0.6 0.5 IFRS 9 transitional adjustment 2.7 Movement in prudent valuation adjustment 0.1 Net increase in intangible assets 0.9 2.1 Movement in deferred tax asset for carried forward losses 1.1 0.2 At 31 December 561.6 460.1 180 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 43.
Operating segments The Group distinguishes two segments within its operations.
BTL SME: secured lending on property for investment and commercial purposes.
This segment also includes the Groups new asset finance business and personal loan portfolio disposed of during 2018, and 2.
Residential mortgages: lending to customers who live in their own homes, secured either via first or second charges against the residential home.
The financial position and results of operations of the above segments are summarised below: Residential BTL SME mortgages Total 2018 m m m Balances at the reporting date Gross loans and advances to customers 7,389.2 1,616.0 9,005.2 Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances 11.0 10.9 21.9 Loans and advances to customers 7,378.2 1,605.1 8,983.3 Capital expenditure 5.2 1.1 6.3 Profit or loss for the year Net interest income 220.0 67.3 287.3 Other expense 1.0 4.2 5.2 Total income 219.0 63.1 282.1 Impairment losses 5.7 2.4 8.1 Contribution to profit 213.3 60.7 274.0 Operating expenses 79.6 FSCS and other provisions 0.8 Exceptional costHeritable option 9.8 Profit before taxation 183.8 Taxation 43.5 Profit for the year 140.3 Residential BTL SME mortgages Total 2017 m m m Balances at the reporting date Gross loans and advances to customers 5,654.1 1,673.5 7,327.6 Provision for impairment losses on loans and advances 13.2 8.4 21.6 Loans and advances to customers 5,640.9 1,665.1 7,306.0 Capital expenditure 11.0 3.3 14.3 Profit or loss for the year Net interest income 177.1 68.3 245.4 Other expense 1.5 5.8 7.3 Total income 175.6 62.5 238.1 Impairment losses 0.8 3.6 4.4 Contribution to profit 174.8 58.9 233.7 Operating expenses 65.1 FSCS and other provisions 0.9 Profit before taxation 167.7 Taxation 40.8 Profit for the year 126.9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 44.
Country by country reporting Country by Country Reporting CBCR was introduced through Article 89 of CRD IV, aimed at the banking and capital markets industry.
From 1 January 2015, all institutions within the scope of CRD IV should publish annually, on a consolidated basis, by country where they have an establishment: a their name, nature of activities and geographic location b number of employees c their turnover d pre-tax profit or loss e corporation tax paid, and f any public subsidies received.
The ongoing reporting deadline is 31 December each year, starting from 31 December 2015, and disclosures should relate to the most recently ended accounting period.
The name, nature of activities and geographic location of the Groups companies are presented below: Jurisdiction Country Name Activities 1 UK England OneSavings Bank plc Easioption Limited Guernsey Home Loans Limited Heritable Development Finance Limited Interbay Group Holdings Limited Jersey Home Loans Limited Prestige Finance Limited Reliance Property Loans Limited Rochester Mortgages Limited 5D Finance Limited Commercial banking InterBay Asset Finance Limited formerly: 5D Lending Ltd Interbay Funding, Ltd Inter Bay Financial I Limited Inter Bay Financial II Limited InterBay Holdings Ltd Interbay ML, Ltd Guernsey Guernsey Home Loans Limited Jersey Jersey Home Loans Limited India India OSB India Private Limited Back office processing 1.
Guernsey Home Loans Limited Guernsey and Jersey Home Loans Limited Jersey are incorporated in Guernsey and Jersey respectively but are considered to be located in the UK as they are managed and controlled in the UK with no permanent establishments in Guernsey or Jersey.
Other disclosures required by the CBCR directive are provided below: 2 2018 UK India Consolidation Total Average number of employees 588 401 989 1 Turnover, m 281.7 7.2 6.8 282.1 Profit loss before tax, m 183.4 1.1 0.7 183.8 Corporation tax paid, m 38.9 0.2 39.1 2 2017 UK India Consolidation Total Average number of employees 483 330 813 1 Turnover, m 238.0 5.4 5.3 238.1 Profit loss before tax, m 167.5 1.0 0.8 167.7 Corporation tax paid, m 41.8 0.3 42.1 1.
Turnover represents total income before impairment losses, regulatory provisions and operating costs, but after net interest, net commissions and fees, gains and losses on financial instruments and external servicing fees.
Relates to a management fee from Indian subsidiaries to OneSavings Bank plc for providing back office processing.
182 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 44.
Country by country reporting continued The tables below reconcile tax charged and tax paid during the year.
UK India Total 2018 m m m Tax charge 43.3 0.2 43.5 Effects of: Other timing differences 0.8 0.8 Tax outside of profit or loss 3.4 3.4 Prior year tax paid during the year 19.5 19.5 Current year tax to be paid after the reporting date 19.7 19.7 Tax paid 38.9 0.2 39.1 UK India Total 2017 m m m Tax charge 40.5 0.3 40.8 Effects of: Other timing differences 0.8 0.8 Tax outside of profit or loss 1.2 1.2 Prior year tax paid during the year 22.3 22.3 Current year tax to be paid after the reporting date 20.6 20.6 Tax paid 41.8 0.3 42.1 45.
Adjustments for non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities Group Group Bank Bank 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and amortisation 4.7 3.5 4.0 3.0 Interest on subordinated liabilities 0.7 0.9 0.7 0.9 Interest on Perpetual Subordinated Bonds 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 Impairment charge on loans 8.1 4.4 7.1 2.0 Loss on sale of financial instruments 0.1 0.1 FSCS and other regulatory provisions 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.9 Fair value losses on financial instruments 5.1 6.3 5.1 6.3 Share-based payments 2.5 2.4 2.6 2.3 Exceptional costHeritable option 9.8 9.8 Total adjustments for non-cash items 32.7 19.3 31.1 16.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Increase in loans and advances to credit institutions 1.7 6.3 1.7 6.3 Increase in loans to customers 1,689.5 1,371.2 1,166.1 1,159.5 Increase in intercompany balances 475.2 181.0 Increase in retail deposits 1,421.6 697.9 1,421.6 697.9 Net increase decrease in other assets 0.8 7.0 0.8 0.9 Net decrease in derivatives and hedged items 5.3 0.1 5.3 0.1 Net increase in credit institutions and other customers deposits 10.9 21.3 10.9 21.3 Net increase decrease in other liabilities 2.9 3.3 1.3 5.5 Exchange differences on working capital 0.2 0.3 Total changes in operating assets and liabilities 262.1 655.0 215.3 623.1 46.
Events after the reporting date On 9 March 2019, a statement was released confirming that Charter Court Financial Services and OneSavings Bank are in advanced discussions regarding a possible all-share combination of the two companies.
This statement and any future public documents relating to the possible combination will be placed on the Investor Relations section of the OSB website at www.
In 2019, the Heritable option was surrendered for a one-off payment of 9.8m and the Bank acquired the JV partners interest in the business.
At the same time a new revenue sharing arrangement was signed allowing the JV partner to continue to lend alongside theBank.
Controlling party As at 31 December 2018 there was no controlling party of OSB.
