Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 iii select suitable accounting policies 3.
Disclosure of information to Political contributions and apply them consistently: the Auditor No political contributions were made Having made the requisite enquiries, iv make judgements and estimates that during the year.
The Company has a so far as the Directors are aware as at are reasonable and prudent: policy of not making political donations the date of this Statement, there is no to political organisations or independent v present information, including relevant audit information as defined election candidates anywhere in the accounting policies, in a manner by section 418 3 of the Companies Act world as defined by the Political Parties, that provides relevant, reliable, 2006 of which the Companys auditor Election and Referendums Act 2000. comparable and understandable is unaware and the Directors have taken information: and all the steps they ought to have taken Post Balance Sheet Events as a Director to make themselves aware vi prepare the financial statements There have been no significant of any relevant audit information and to on a going concern basis unless post balance sheet events since 31 establish that the Companys auditor is it is inappropriate to presume that December 2018. aware of that information.
the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Annual General Meeting Reappointment of Auditor The Directors are responsible for keeping The Annual General Meeting of the Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue proper accounting records which Company will be held on 24 May 2019. in office and, accordingly, resolutions disclose with reasonable accuracy at The notice of meeting can be found in concerning their reappointment and any time the financial position of the the document which accompanies this to authorise the Directors to set their Company and of the Group and to Annual Report and Accounts.
It is also remuneration will be proposed at the enable them to ensure that the financial available on the Companys website forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
statements and Directors Remuneration www.
Report comply with the Companies Act By order of the Board 2006 and, for the consolidated financial Directors Statements statements, Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible of Responsibility for the system of internal control, for The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Kaye Maguire preparing the Annual Report and and the Group and, hence, for taking General Counsel & Company Secretary Accounts in accordance with applicable reasonable steps for the prevention and 5 March 2019 law and regulations and keeping proper detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Detailed below The Directors are responsible for are statements made by the Directors the maintenance and integrity of the in relation to their responsibilities, corporate and financial information disclosure of information to the included on the Companys website.
Companys auditor and going concern.
Legislation in the United Kingdom 1.
Financial Statements and governing the preparation and accounting records dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other Company law of England and Wales jurisdictions.
requires the Directors to prepare for each financial year financial statements which 2.
Directors Responsibility give a true and fair view of the state of Statement affairs of the Company and of the Group The Board confirms to the best of its at the end of the financial year and of the knowledge that: profit or loss of the Group for that period.
i the Group and parent company In preparing those financial statements financial statements, prepared in the Directors are required to: accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of i state whether the Group financial the assets, liabilities, financial position statements have been prepared and profit of the Group and parent in accordance with International company: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the ii the Directors Report and the EU and Article 4 of the EU IAS Strategic Report include a fair review Regulations: of the development and performance of the business and the position of ii state whether the parent company the Group together with a description financial statements have been of the principal risks and uncertainties prepared in accordance with IFRS as that it faces.
adopted for use in the EU: Corporate Governance | 80
