Pantheon International Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping The UK Corporate Governance Code the annual report and the financial adequate accounting records that are requires Directors to ensure that the annual statements in accordance with applicable sufficient to show and explain the report and financial statements are fair, laws and regulations.
Company law Companys transactions and disclose balanced and understandable.
In order to requires the Directors to prepare financial with reasonable accuracy at any time the reach a conclusion on this matter, the Board statements for each financial year.
financial position of the Company and has requested that the Audit Committee Under that law they have elected to prepare enable them to ensure that the financial advises on whether it considers that the the financial statements in accordance statements comply with the Companies annual report and financial statements fulfil with applicable law and United Kingdom Act 2006.
They are also responsible for these requirements.
The process by which Accounting Standards United Kingdom safeguarding the assets of the Company the Audit Committee has reached these Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for conclusions is set out in its report on Under company law the Directors must not the prevention and detection of fraud and pages 74 to 75.
As a result, the Board has approve the financial statements unless other irregularities.
concluded that the annual report and they are satisfied that they give a true financial statements for the year ended The Directors are also responsible for and fair view of the state of affairs of the 31 May 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors Company as at the end of each financial balanced and understandable and provides Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, year and of the profit or loss of the the information necessary for shareholders the Corporate Governance Statement Company for that period.
to assess the Companys position and and the Report of the Audit Committee in performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing these financial statements, accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Directors are required to: and applicable regulations, including the Signed on behalf of the Board by requirements of the Listing Rules and the Present a true and fair view of the financial Sir Laurie Magnus Disclosure Guidance and Transparency position, financial performance and cash Chairman Rules.
The Directors have delegated flows of the Company: responsibility to the Investment Manager 7 August 2018 Select suitable accounting policies in for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with United Kingdom GAAP the Companys corporate and financial and then apply them consistently: information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in Present information, including accounting the United Kingdom governing the policies, in a manner that provides preparation and dissemination of financial relevant, reliable, comparable and statements may differ from legislation understandable information: in other jurisdictions.
Make judgements and estimates that Each of the Directors, whose names are are reasonable and prudent: listed on pages 60 to 61, confirms that: State whether applicable UK Accounting The financial statements, prepared in Standards have been followed, subject to accordance with applicable accounting any material departures disclosed and standards, give a true and fair view of explained in the financial statements: and the assets, liabilities, financial position Prepare the financial statements on a and profit of the Company: and going concern basis unless it is The Strategic Report contained in the inappropriate to presume that the annual report and financial statements Company will continue in business.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pantheon International Plc with the ethical requirements that are The Directors Statement, set out on page Opinion relevant to our audit of the financial 80 of the financial statements, about statements in the UK, including the FRCs whether the Directors considered it Our opinion on the financial Ethical Standard as applied to public appropriate to adopt the going concern statements is unmodified interest entities, and we have fulfilled our basis of accounting in preparing the other ethical responsibilities in accordance financial statements and the Directors We have audited the financial with these requirements.
We believe that identification of any material statements of Pantheon International the audit evidence we have obtained is uncertainties to the Companys ability to Plc the Company for the year ended sufficient and appropriate to provide a continue to do so over a period of at least 31 May 2018 which comprise the basis for our opinion.
twelve months from the date of approval Income Statement, the Statement of of the financial statements: Changes in Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and Notes to Whether the Directors Statement relating Who we are reporting to the Financial Statements, including a to going concern required under the This report is made solely to the Companys summary of significant accounting Listing Rules in accordance with Listing members, as a body, in accordance with policies.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act framework that has been applied in with our knowledge obtained in the 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken their preparation is applicable law audit: or so that we might state to the Companys and United Kingdom Accounting the Directors explanation, set out on members those matters we are required to Standards, including Financial page 23 of the annual report, as to how state to them in an auditors report and for Reporting Standard 102 The Financial they have assessed the prospects of no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Reporting Standard applicable in the the Company, over what period they permitted by law, we do not accept or UK and Republic of Ireland United have done so and why they consider assume responsibility to anyone other than Kingdom Generally Accepted that period to be appropriate, and their the Company and the Companys members Accounting Practice.
statement as to whether they have a as a body, for our audit work, for this report, In our opinion, the financial statements: reasonable expectation that the Company or for the opinions we have formed.
will be able to continue in operation Give a true and fair view of the and meet its liabilities as they fall due state of the Companys affairs as at Conclusions relating to over the period of their assessment, 31 May 2018 and of its return for the including any related disclosures drawing principal risks, going concern year then ended: attention to any necessary qualifications and viability statement Have been properly prepared in or assumptions.
accordance with United Kingdom We have nothing to report in respect of the Generally Accepted Accounting following information in the annual report, Overview of our audit Practice: and in relation to which the ISAs UK require us approach to report to you whether we have anything Have been prepared in accordance material to add or draw attention to: Overall materiality: 26,135,000, with the requirements of the which represents 2% of the Companies Act 2006.
The disclosures in the annual report set Companys net assets value: out on pages 20 to 22 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are Key audit matter identified was being managed or mitigated: the existence and valuation of Basis for opinion investments: and The Directors confirmation, set out on We conducted our audit in accordance pages 72 and 73 of the annual report, Our audit approach was a risk with International Standards on Auditing that they have carried out a robust based substantive audit focussed UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
assessment of the principal risks facing on the existence and valuation Our responsibilities under those standards the Company, including those that would of investments.
We have not are further described in the Auditors threaten its business model, future had to change our scope from responsibilities for the audit of the financial performance, solvency or liquidity: the prior period.
statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance Pantheon International Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pantheon International Plc continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in the audit Existence and valuation of investments The primary investment objective of the Company is Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: to seek to maximise long-term capital growth for its Existence shareholders by investing in funds specialising in unquoted Obtaining direct confirmation of ownership of a sample of the investments, acquiring unquoted portfolios, and investments from the underlying private equity fund managers: participating directly in private placements.
Investments are not restricted to a single market but are made when Agreeing a sample of investment calls and distributions to deal slips and the opportunity arises and on an international basis.
bank records: and As a consequence of this, the Company has significant Agreeing the reconciliation of movements in investments held to exposure to investments which are the main drivers for supporting schedules.
maximising capital growth, with the investment portfolio Valuation valued at 1,275,000,000, which forms 98% of net assets and includes an unrealised gain of 510,000,000 Understanding, assessing, and challenging managements process and representing 40% of the year-end portfolio valuation.
methodology for valuing investments, including their application of the There is a risk that investments shown in the Balance International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, by Sheet may not exist or are incorrectly valued.
reading the Pantheon Ventures UK LLP Valuation Memorandum issued in January 2018: There is estimation uncertainty in determining the fair value of investments at the measurement date.
Checking whether the investment has been valued in accordance with The Directors apply a consistent valuation process based the stated accounting policy by testing the accuracy of managements on the information available at the measurement date valuations by comparing against latest valuations received from the which includes valuation statements as at 31 March 2018 underlying private equity fund managers and providing for the cash roll and known cash movements to 31 May 2018.
Following between the capital statement date and the year-end: the measurement date relevant information is received Testing a sample of investment valuations directly from the underlying and monitored but only considered for adjustment if in the private equity fund managers: assessing the validity of a sample of the view of the Directors it would have a significant impact.
valuations by comparing the information on the valuation to periodic The Directors have determined a significant impact to audited financial statements: be 5% of the portfolio valuation.
We therefore identified existence and valuation of investments as a significant Observing the review procedures implemented by the Investment risk, which was one of the most significant assessed risks Manager on investment valuations by reading the valuation committee of material misstatement.
minutes: and Assessing managements consideration of other factors that might require adjustment to the valuation resulting from the normal process.
The Companys accounting policy on the valuation of investments is shown in Note 1d and its disclosures about investments held at the year-end are included in Note 9a.
The Audit Committee also identified the valuation process and ownership of assets as a principal issue in its report on page 74, where the Committee also describes how it addressed this issue.
Key observations Our audit work did not identify any material misstatements concerning the valuation and existence of investments.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 83 Obtaining an understanding of, and We have nothing to report in this regard.
Our application of evaluating, relevant internal controls at materiality In this context, we also have nothing to both the Company and third-party service report in regard to our responsibility to We define materiality as the magnitude of providers.
This included reading the specifically address the following items misstatement in the financial statements internal control reports prepared by a third in the other information and to report as that makes it probable that the economic party auditor detailing the description, uncorrected material misstatements of the decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable design and operating effectiveness of other information where we conclude that person would be changed or influenced.
internal controls implemented by the those items meet the following conditions: We use materiality in determining the investment management operations of nature, timing and extent of our work and the Investment Manager, and at other Fair, balanced and understandable set out in evaluating the results of that work.
on page 80 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual We determined materiality for the audit of Performing substantive testing by report and financial statements taken the financial statements as a whole to be obtaining direct confirmations on as a whole is fair, balanced and 26,135,000, which is 2% of the Companys ownership and valuation of a sample understandable and provides the net assets.
This benchmark is considered of investments from the underlying information necessary for shareholders the most appropriate because net assets, private equity fund managers.
to assess the Companys performance, which is primarily composed of the business model and strategy, is materially Companys investment portfolio, is inconsistent with our knowledge obtained Other information considered to be the key driver of the in the audit: or Companys total return performance.
The Directors are responsible for the other Audit Committee reporting set out on information.
The other information Materiality for the current year is lower page 74 the section describing the comprises the information included in the than the level that we determined for the work of the Audit Committee does not annual report set out on pages 1 to 57, period ended 31 May 2017 reflecting the appropriately address matters other than the financial statements and decrease in the Companys net assets in communicated by us to the Audit our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the current year.
Committee: or the financial statements does not cover the We use a different level of materiality, other information and, except to the extent Directors Statement of Compliance with performance materiality, to drive the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, the UK Corporate Governance Code of our testing and this was set at 75% of we do not express any form of assurance set out on page 68 the parts of the financial statement materiality.
Directors Statement required under the We determined the threshold at which Listing Rules relating to the Companys In connection with our audit of the financial we will communicate misstatements compliance with the UK Corporate statements, our responsibility is to read the to the audit committee to be 1,310,000.
Governance Code containing provisions other information and, in doing so, consider In addition we will communicate specified for review by the auditor in whether the other information is materially misstatements below that threshold accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 inconsistent with the financial statements that, in our view, warrant reporting on do not properly disclose a departure or our knowledge obtained in the audit or qualitative grounds.
from a relevant provision of the UK otherwise appears to be materially Corporate Governance Code.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material An overview of the scope misstatements, we are required to of our audit determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements Our audit approach was a risk-based or a material misstatement of the other approach founded on a thorough information.
If, based on the work we have understanding of the Companys business, performed, we conclude that there is a its environment and risk profile.
The material misstatement of this other day-to-day management of the Companys information, we are required to report investment portfolio, the custody of its that fact.
investments and the maintenance of the Companys accounting records is outsourced to third party service providers.
Therefore our audit work was focused on: Pantheon International Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the Members of Pantheon International Plc continued Matter on which we are Responsibilities of Directors Our opinions on other required to report under As explained more fully in the Directors matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Responsibility Statement set out on page the Companies Act 2006 80, the Directors are responsible for the In the light of the knowledge and is unmodified preparation of the financial statements and understanding of the Company and its for being satisfied that they give a true and In our opinion, the part of the Directors environment obtained in the course of fair view, and for such internal control as the Remuneration Report to be audited has the audit, we have not identified material Directors determine is necessary to enable been properly prepared in accordance misstatements in: the preparation of financial statements with the Companies Act 2006.
The Strategic Report or the Directors that are free from material misstatement, In our opinion, based on the work Report: or whether due to fraud or error.
undertaken in the course of the audit: The information about internal control In preparing the financial statements, the The information given in the Strategic and risk management systems in relation Directors are responsible for assessing the Report and the Directors Report to financial reporting processes and Companys ability to continue as a going for the financial year for which the about share capital structures, given in concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters financial statements are prepared compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of related to going concern and using the is consistent with the financial the FCA Rules.
going concern basis of accounting unless statements and those reports have the Directors either intend to liquidate the been prepared in accordance with Company or to cease operations, or have Matters on which we applicable legal requirements: no realistic alternative but to do so.
are required to report The information about internal by exception control and risk management Auditors responsibilities systems in relation to financial We have nothing to report in respect of the for the audit of the reporting processes and about following matters in relation to which the financial statements share capital structures, given in Companies Act 2006 requires us to report compliance with rules 7.2.
6 to you if, in our opinion: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable in the Disclosure Rules and assurance about whether the financial Adequate accounting records have not Transparency Rules sourcebook statements as a whole are free from been kept, or returns adequate for our made by the Financial Conduct material misstatement, whether due to audit have not been received from Authority the FCA Rules, is fraud or error, and to issue an auditors branches not visited by us: or consistent with the financial report that includes our opinion.
statements and has been prepared in The financial statements and the part of Reasonable assurance is a high level accordance with applicable legal the Directors Remuneration Report to of assurance, but is not a guarantee that requirements: and be audited are not in agreement with the an audit conducted in accordance with accounting records and returns: or ISAs UK will always detect a material Information about the Companys misstatement when it exists.
corporate governance code and Certain disclosures of Directors practices and about its remuneration specified by law are Misstatements can arise from fraud or error administrative, management and not made: or and are considered material if, individually supervisory bodies and their or in the aggregate, they could reasonably We have not received all the information committees complies with rules be expected to influence the economic and explanations we require for our 7.2.
decisions of users taken on the basis of audit: or these financial statements.
A Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 85 We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our audit approach is a risk-based approach and is explained more fully in the An overview of the scope of our audit section of our audit report.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters which we are required to address We, through Robson Rhodes with whom we merged in 2007, were appointed by the Audit Committee at the inception of the Company in 1987.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 30 years.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Paul Flatley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 7 August 2018
