Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 119 Glossary of Terms and Alternative Performance Measures AIC ongoing charges Capital call Annualised operating costs, excluding performance fees, Call to limited partners LP to pay-in a portion of the LPs financing costs, and taxes, as a percentage of the average committed capital when the general partner GP has identified a month-end NAV over the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 May 2018 31 May 2018 Page 000 Page m Investment management fees 88 15,020 Purchases of investments 91 254 a Lookthrough charges 95 490 Recallable distributions 13 b Other expenses 88 296 Amount drawn for new commitments 152 b Total expenses 15,806 a Other adjustments 102 3 c Average month-end NAV 1,284,219 b Capital calls 86 a b c AIC ongoing charges 1.23% a b Capital call rate AIFMD Capital calls in the period divided by opening undrawn Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Asset Linked Note ALN Year ended Unlisted, subordinated note due August 2027, the repayment 31 May 2018 of which and the performance of which are linked to a reference Page m portfolio consisting of older vintage funds.
The holder of the ALN Capital calls 86 a has rights to receive c. 75% of net cash flows arising from the Opening undrawn commitments 445 b reference portfolio prior to the repayment of any outstanding balance in August 2027.
Capital calls 19% a b Available cash Cash less next ALN repayment see Note 13 Carried interest Available financing Portion of realised investment gains payable to the GP as a Sum of available cash and undrawn loan facility.
Co-investment At 31 May 2018 Page m Direct shareholding in a company by invitation alongside a private equity fund.
Available cash 106 146 a Commitment Undrawn loan facility 106 163 b The amount of capital that each limited partner agrees to contribute Available financing 309 a b to the fund when and as called by the GP.
Debt multiple Buyout funds Ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Funds that acquire controlling interests in companies with a view towards later selling those companies or taking them public.
Pantheon International Plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Glossary of Terms and Alternative Performance Measures continued Distribution Enterprise value Cash or stock returned to the LPs after the fund has exited from an The sum of a companys market capitalisation and net debt, investment by selling it or from distrubutions received before a sale.
equals debt less cash and cash equivalents.
Excludes such proceeds received relative to the portion of the Exit portfolio attributable to the Asset Linked Note.
Realisation of an investment usually through trade sale, sale by public offering including IPO, or sale to a financial buyer.
Year ended 31 May 2018 Expense charge Page m A pro rata share of the Companys Total Ongoing Charges Disposals of investments 91 351 a allocated to the ALN, reducing each quarterly payment.
This is Investment income received 91 14 b deducted from Other Expenses through the Revenue Account of the Income Statement.
Recallable distributions 13 c Financing cover Withholding tax deducted 91 10 d Ratio of available cash, private equity assets and undrawn loan ALN share of distributions 62 e facility to outstanding commitments.
Distributions from a b c At 31 May 2018 PIPs portfolio 280 d e Page m Available financing 119 309 a Distribution rate Investments at fair value 90 1,275 b Distributions for the period divided by opening portfolio value.
Total 1,584 c a b Year ended 31 May 2018 Outstanding commitments 440 d Page m Financing cover 3.6x c d Distributions from PIPs portfolio 280 a Opening investments at Fund-of-funds fair value 90 1,224 b Private equity fund that invests in a portfolio of several private equity funds to achieve, compared to a direct investment fund, ALN share of opening investments 163 c a broader diversification of risk, including individual manager risk.
Opening portfolio value d Fund management fee excluding the ALN 1,061 b c Annual fee, typically charged by the GP as a percentage of LP Distribution rate from commitments to the fund during the investment period and PIPs portfolio 26% a d attenuating thereafter, intended to cover the costs of running and administering a fund.
Dry powder General partner GP Funds committed but not yet invested that are available The entity managing a private equity fund that has been established for investment.
as a limited partnership, also commonly referred to as the private equity fund manager.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA A measure of earnings before interest and taxes that exclude non-cash expenses.
Valuation methods are commonly based on a comparison of private and public companies value as a multiple of EBITDA.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 121 Initial public offering IPO MiFIR The first offering by a company of its own shares to the public Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation.
Multiple of Invested Capital MOIC or cost multiple Internal rate of return IRR A common measure of private equity performance, MOIC is The IRR, a common measure of private equity performance, calculated by dividing the funds cumulative distributions and is calculated as an annualised compounded rate of investment residual value by the paid-in capital.
return based on the timing and quantity of cash flows.
Net asset value NAV Investment period Amount by which the value of assets of a fund exceeds liabilities, Period, typically five years, during which the GP is permitted to reflecting the value of an investors attributable holding.
Net portfolio cash flow J-Curve Income and capital distributions received from funds following Refers to the tendency of private equity funds to experience exit realisations less capital calls made to finance investments capital outflows and negative returns in early years, and cash flow or expenses.
distributions and investment gains in later years as portfolio Year ended companies mature and are exited.
31 May 2018 Page m Limited partner LP Institutions or individuals who commit capital to a private equity Distributions from PIPs portfolio 120 280 a fund established as a limited partnership.
Limited partners are generally protected from legal actions and any losses beyond Capital calls 119 86 b their original commitment to the fund.
Net portfolio cash flow 194 ab Liquidation Paid in capital The sale of all remaining assets of a fund prior to its final cessation Cumulative amount of capital that has been called.
Portfolio company Liquidity ratio A company that is an investment within a private equity fund.
Ratio of undrawn commitments to total liquid resources.
Under the terms of its loan facility, PIP is required to maintain a liquidity Portfolio investment return ratio of below 3.0x.
Total movement in the valuation of the underlying funds and companies comprising the portfolio, expressed as a percentage At 31 May 2018 of opening portfolio value.
Foreign exchange effects and other Page m expenses are excluded from the calculation.
The figure excludes Outstanding commitments 440 a returns attributable to the ALN.
Available financing 119 309 b Primaries Investments at fair value 10% 90 128 c Commitments made to private equity funds at the time such funds are formed.
d Total liquid resources 437 b c Private equity Liquidity ratio 1.0x a d Privately negotiated investments typically made in non-public companies.
Reference portfolio Market capitalisation As defined under the terms of the Asset Linked Note, a subset of Share price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding.
PIPs private equity portfolio assets, substantially comprising the MiFID Companys oldest funds 2006 and earlier vintages.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
Pantheon International Plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Glossary of Terms and Alternative Performance Measures continued Sample calculations and disclosures Total ongoing charges The sample buyout figures for the 12 months to 31 December 2017 Annualised operating costs, including financing costs and any were calculated using all information available to the Company.
performance fees charged by Pantheon but excluding taxes, The figures are based on unaudited data.
MSCI and FTSE data was expressed as a percentage of the average month-end NAV sourced from Bloomberg.
Revenue and EBITDA Year ended 31 May 2018 The revenue and EBITDA figures were based upon the last Page 000 12 months to 31 December 2017 or where not available, the closest annual period disclosed, and provide coverage of Investment management fees 88 15,020 53% and 51% for revenue and EBITDA growth respectively of Performance fee payable to PIPs buyout portfolio.
Individual company revenue and EBITDA Pantheon 0 growth figures were capped between -100% and 100% to avoid Lookthrough charges 95 490 large distortions from excessive outliers.
Sample data for 2012-2016 is based on the same methodology and provides Other expenses 88 296 coverage of 45%-75% of the portfolio in each year.
Interest payable and similar expenses 88 1,950 Valuation multiple and debt multiple Enterprise value is defined as equity value plus net debt.
The net Total expenses and financing costs 17,756 a debt and enterprise value figures were based on underlying valuations as at 31 December 2017, or the closest disclosed Average month-end NAV 1,284,219 b period end.
The valuation multiple sample covers approximately Total ongoing charges 1.38% a b 46% of PIPs buyout portfolio.
The debt multiple sample covers approximately 63% of PIPs buyout portfolio.
Undrawn or outstanding commitments Cost multiple Undrawn portion of total commitment.
The cost multiple data on page 37 is based on a sample that represented approximately 38% by value of PIPs gross Uplift on exit distributions for the year to 31 May 2018.
The data covers primary Increase in value received upon exit realisation of an investment investments and co-investments, and is based upon gross cost relative to its carrying value prior to realisation.
multiples available at the time of the distribution.
Valuation multiples Uplift Multiple of earnings typically EBITDA or net income or revenue Realisation events are classified as exit realisations when applied in valuing a business enterprise.
proceeds equate to at least 80% of total investment value Venture capital and once confirmation of exit realisation is received from the Investment in early and development-stage companies, often used underlying private equity manager.
Uplift on full exit compares to finance technological product and market development.
the value received upon realisation against the investments carrying value up to six months prior to the transaction taking Vintage place.
The analysis on page 37 only includes exit realisations The year in which a private equity fund makes its first investment.
that occurred during the period and disregards the impact of any Weighted average fund age proceeds received outside of the six month period covered in Average fund age for the portfolio is weighted by the funds the uplift analysis.
The data in the sample represents 100% of respective closing net asset values.
Fund age refers to the number proceeds from exit realisations and 56% of distributions received of years since a private equity funds first investment.
Secondaries Purchase of existing private equity fund or company interests and commitments from an investor seeking liquidity in such funds or companies.
Share price premium discount Occurs when a companys share price is higher lower than the net asset value per share.
