Pantheon International Plc 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting To be held on 31 October 2018 This Document is Important and Requires 12.
That: Ordinary Business your Immediate Attention the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally Ordinary Resolutions If you are in any doubt about the action to authorised for the purposes of Section take, you should consult your stockbroker, 1.
T o receive and adopt the Strategic 551 of the Companies Act 2006 bank manager, solicitor, accountant or Report, Directors Report and Auditors the Act to exercise all the powers other independent professional adviser Report and the audited Accounts for of the Company to allot shares in the authorised under the Financial Services and the year ended 31 May 2018.
Company, and to grant rights to Markets Act 2000 as amended without subscribe for, or to convert any security 2.
T o receive and approve the Directors delay.
If you have sold or transferred into, shares in the Company, up to an Remuneration Report for the year all of your Ordinary Shares of 0.67 aggregate nominal amount equal to the ended 31 May 2018. each Ordinary Shares in Pantheon sum of 12,085,559.83, provided that International Plc the Company and, 3.
T o re-elect Sir Laurie Magnus as this authority shall unless previously as a result, no longer hold any shares in the a Director.
renewed, revoked or varied by the Company, please send this document and Company in general meeting expire 4.
To re-elect Mr I. C. S. Barby as a Director.
the accompanying form of proxy as soon at the conclusion of the period as possible to the purchaser or transferee or 5.
T o re-elect Mr J. D. Burgess as commencing with the date on which to the person through whom the sale or a Director.
this Resolution is passed and expiring transfer was effected for transmission to at the conclusion of the next annual 6.
To re-elect Mr D. L. Melvin as a Director.
general meeting of the Company or the 7.
T o re-elect Ms S. E. M. Nicklin as An explanation of the business proposed date occurring 15 months from the date a Director to be transacted at the Annual General on which this Resolution is passed, Meeting the Meeting convened by this whichever is the earlier the Period of 8.
Singer as notice and the Directors recommendation Authority, save that the Company may a Director.
as to how to vote at the Meeting are set out before the expiry of such authority make 9.
To re-elect Mr R. M. Swire as a Director.
in the Directors Report on pages 65 to 67 an offer or agreement which would or of this document.
might require shares in the Company to 10.
To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP be allotted and or rights to subscribe as Auditor to the Company to hold office Notice is hereby given that the Annual for, or to convert any security into, from the conclusion of this meeting General Meeting of the Company will be shares in the Company to be granted until the conclusion of the next meeting held at The British Academy, 10-11 Carlton after the expiry of the said period and at which accounts are laid before House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH on the Directors may allot such shares the Company.
Wednesday, 31 October 2018 at 10:30am and or grant such rights in pursuance of to consider and, if thought fit, pass the 11.
T o authorise the Audit Committee any such offer or agreement as if the following resolutions, of which numbers to determine the remuneration of authority conferred by this Resolution 1 to 12 and 16 will be proposed as ordinary the Auditor.
had not expired, and so that the resolutions and numbers 13 to 15 as authority hereby given shall be in special resolutions.
substitution for all subsisting authorities under Section 551 of the Act.
Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 115 subscribe or convert as the case may 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation: Special Resolutions be shall be subscribed for or issued or unless renewed, varied or revoked, the 13.
That: sold as the case may be at a price per authority hereby conferred shall expire subject to the passing of Resolution 12 share not less than the net asset value at the conclusion of the next annual above, the Directors of the Company be per share calculated pursuant to the general meeting of the Company or the and are hereby empowered, until the Articles of Association of the Company date occurring 18 months from the date conclusion of the Period of Authority, as at the Calculation Date as defined on which this Resolution is passed, pursuant to Section 570 of the Act to in the Articles of Association of the whichever is the earlier, save that the allot equity securities within the Company immediately preceding the Company may, prior to such expiry, meaning of Section 560 of the Act issue or sale of such shares: save that enter into a contract to purchase for cash pursuant to the authority the Company may, before the expiry of Ordinary Shares which will or may be conferred upon them under Resolution the Period of Authority, make an offer completed or executed wholly or partly 12 above as if Section 561 of the Act or agreement which would or might after such expiry and may make a did not apply to any such allotment and require equity securities to be allotted purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuant to Section 573 of the Act after such expiry and the Directors may pursuance of any such contract.
to allot equity securities within the allot equity securities in pursuance of 15.
That: meaning of Section 560 of the Act such an offer or agreement as if the a general meeting other than an annual held by the Company as treasury power conferred hereby had not expired.
general meeting may be called on not shares within the meaning of Section 14.
That: less than 14 clear days notice.
724 5 of the Act for cash as if Section the Company be and is hereby generally 561 of the Act did not apply to any such and, subject as hereinafter provided, allotment, provided that this power Special Business unconditionally authorised in shall be limited to: accordance with Section 701 of the Ordinary Resolution a. t he allotment of equity securities in Act, in substitution for all subsisting connection with a rights issue, open 16.
That authorities under Section 701 of the Act, offer or any other offer in favour of the Company be authorised, subject to make market purchases within the holders of Ordinary Shares within the to and in accordance with the provisions meaning of Section 693 of the Act of meaning of Section 560 of the Act and of the Companies Act 2006, to send, Ordinary Shares and provided that: any other persons entitled to participate convey or supply all types of notices, a. t he maximum number of Ordinary in such issue or offering where the documents or information to Shares hereby authorised to be equity securities respectively Shareholders by electronic means, purchased is such number rounded attributable to the interests of such including making such notices, down to the nearest whole number holders and persons are proportionate documents or information available as is equal to 14.99% of the number of as nearly as may be to the respective on a website.
Ordinary Shares in issue excluding any numbers of Ordinary Shares held by or Dated 7 August 2018 Ordinary Shares held by the Company deemed to be held by them on the as treasury shares within the meaning record date of such allotment, subject to Registered office: Beaufort House, of Section 724 5 of the Act as at the such exclusions or other arrangements 51 New North Road, Exeter EX4 4EP date this Resolution is passed: as the Directors may consider By order of the Board necessary or expedient to deal with b. t he minimum price which may be paid fractional entitlements or legal or for an Ordinary Share is 0.67: and practical problems arising under the c. t he maximum price exclusive of laws or requirements of any territory or expenses which may be paid for an the requirements of any regulatory Ordinary Share shall be the higher of authority or any stock exchange: i 5% above the average of the middle b. t he allotment of equity securities market quotations for the Ordinary otherwise than pursuant to Shares as derived from the London sub-paragraph a above up to an Stock Exchanges Daily Official List aggregate nominal amount equal to the for the five business days before the sum of 1,812,833.97, and in respect of purchase is made and ii the higher of any such allotment, on terms that the the price of the last independent trade shares constituting the equity securities and the highest current independent bid, allotted or for or into which the equity as stipulated by regulatory technical securities allotted give a right to standards adopted pursuant to article Pantheon International Plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2.
I n the case of joint holders, the signature 5.
C REST members who wish to appoint a Notes of only one of the joint holders is proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST 1.
A member entitled to attend this required on the proxy form and, where electronic proxy appointment service meeting may attend the Meeting in more than one joint holder has signed may do so for this meeting and any person or may appoint one or more the proxy form or where more than one adjournment of it by following the persons as his her proxy to attend, joint holder purports to appoint a proxy, procedures described in the CREST speak and or vote on his her behalf.
only the signature of or the appointment Manual available via www.
A proxy need not be a member of submitted by the most senior holder will com.
CREST personal members or the Company.
be accepted to the exclusion of the other other CREST sponsored members, and joint holders.
Seniority is determined those CREST members who have I f multiple proxies are appointed, they by the order in which the names of the appointed a voting service provider s, must not be appointed in respect of joint holders appear in the Companys should refer to their CREST sponsor the same shares.
A form of proxy is register of members in respect of the or voting service provider s, who will provided with this notice.
The joint holding the first named being be able to take the appropriate action appointment of a proxy will not prevent the most senior.
In order for a proxy a member from attending the Meeting appointment or instruction made by and voting in person if he she so 3.
O nly those members registered on the means of CREST to be valid, the wishes.
A member present in person or Register of Members of the Company by appropriate CREST message a CREST by proxy shall have one vote on a show close of business on 29 October 2018 Proxy Instruction must be properly of hands and on a poll every member or in the event that the meeting is authenticated in accordance with present in person or by proxy shall have adjourned, only those shareholders Euroclears specifications and must one vote for every Ordinary Share of registered on the Register of Members contain the information required for which he she is the holder.
To appoint of the Company as at close of business such instructions, as described in the more than one proxy, a separate form on the day which is two days prior to CREST Manual.
The message, in order of proxy in relation to each appointment the adjourned meeting weekends and to be valid, must be transmitted so as should be completed shareholders public holidays excluded shall be to be received by the Companys agent may photocopy the form of proxy, entitled to attend in person or by proxy ID RA10 by the latest time for receipt stating clearly on each form of proxy and vote at the Annual General Meeting of proxy appointments specified in how many Ordinary Shares the proxy in respect of the number of shares note 4 above.
is appointed in relation to.
A failure to registered in their name at that time.
specify the number of Ordinary Shares F or this purpose, the time of receipt will C hanges to entries on the Register of each proxy appointment relates to or be taken to be the time as determined Members after the specified time shall specifying an aggregate number of by the timestamp applied to the be disregarded in determining the rights Ordinary Shares in excess of those message by the CREST Applications of any person to attend or vote at the held by the shareholder will result in Host from which the Companys agent Annual General Meeting or, if adjourned, the proxy appointment being invalid.
is able to retrieve the message by at the adjourned meeting.
Members are requested to indicate on enquiry to CREST in the manner the form of proxy if the proxy instruction 4.
To be valid, a form of proxy, together prescribed by CREST.
After this time, is one of multiple instructions being with any power of attorney or other any change of instructions to proxies given.
All forms of proxy must be signed authority under which it is signed or a appointed through CREST should be and should be returned together in the notarially certified copy thereof, should communicated to the appointee same envelope.
be lodged at the office of the Companys through other means.
CREST members Registrar, Link Asset Services, PXS 1, and, where applicable, their CREST 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, sponsors or voting service providers Kent BR3 4TU, not later than 48 hours should note that Euroclear does not before the time of the meeting, or any make available special procedures in adjournment thereof.
The termination of CREST for any particular messages.
the authority of a person to act as proxy Normal system timings and limitations must be notified to the Company in will therefore apply in relation to the writing.
Amended instructions must be input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
received by the Companys Registrar by It is the responsibility of the CREST the deadline for receipt of proxies.
member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal Strategic Report Managers Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 117 m ember or sponsored member or has 7.
M embers satisfying the thresholds in 10.
A person to whom this notice is sent appointed a voting service provider s, Section 338A of the Companies Act who is a person nominated under to procure that his CREST sponsor or 2006 may request the Company to Section 146 of the Companies Act voting service provider s take s such include in the business to be dealt with 2006 to enjoy information rights action as shall be necessary to ensure at the Annual General Meeting any a nominated Person may, under an that a message is transmitted by means matter other than a proposed agreement between him her and the of the CREST system by any particular resolution which may properly be shareholder by whom he she was time.
In this connection, CREST included in the business at the Annual nominated, have a right to be appointed members and, where applicable, their General Meeting.
A matter may properly or to have someone else appointed as CREST sponsors or voting service be included in the business at the a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
providers are referred, in particular, Annual General Meeting unless i it is If a nominated Person has no such to those sections of the CREST Manual defamatory of any person or ii it is proxy appointment right or does not concerning practical limitations of frivolous or vexatious.
A request made wish to exercise it, he she may, under the CREST system and timings.
pursuant to this right may be in hard any such agreement, have a right to The Company may treat as invalid a copy or electronic form, must identify give instructions to the shareholder CREST Proxy Instruction in the grounds for the request, must be as to the exercise of voting rights.
circumstances set out in Regulation authenticated by the person s making it The statements of the rights of 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities and must be received by the Company members in relation to the appointment Regulations 2001. not later than six weeks before the date of proxies in notes 1 to 4 above do not of the Annual General Meeting.
M embers satisfying the thresholds in described in those notes can only be Section 338 of the Companies Act 2006 8.
A ny question relevant to the business exercised by registered members of may require the Company to give, to of the Annual General Meeting may the Company.
members of the Company entitled to be asked at the Meeting by anyone receive notice of the Annual General permitted to speak at the Meeting.
A s at 31 May 2018, the Companys Meeting, notice of a resolution which Alternatively, questions may be issued voting share capital and total those members intend to move and submitted in advance by letter voting rights amounted to 54,114,447 which may properly be moved at the addressed to the Company Secretary Ordinary Shares of 0.67 each carrying Annual General Meeting.
A resolution at the registered office.
may properly be moved at the Annual 9.
In accordance with Section 319A of the General Meeting unless i it would, Companies Act 2006, the Company if passed, be ineffective whether by must cause any question relating to the reason of any inconsistency with business being dealt with at the Meeting any enactment or the Companys put by a member attending the Meeting constitution or otherwise : ii it is to be answered.
No such answer need defamatory of any person: or iii it is be given if: a to do so would: i frivolous or vexatious.
A request made interfere unduly with the preparation pursuant to this right may be in hard for the Meeting, or ii involve the copy or electronic form, must identify disclosure of confidential information: the resolution of which notice is to be b the answer has already been given given, must be authenticated by the on a website in the form of an answer to person s making it and must be a question: or c it is undesirable in the received by the Company not later interests of the Company or the good than six weeks before the date of the order of the Meeting that the question Annual General Meeting.
Pantheon International Plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 12.
A member that is a corporation can only c ircumstances connected with an 15.
C opies of the letters of appointment of attend and vote at the meeting in person auditor of the Company ceasing to hold the Chairman and the Non-Executive through one or more representatives office since the previous meeting at Directors of the Company will be appointed in accordance with Section which annual accounts and reports available for inspection at the registered 323 of the Companies Act 2006, as were laid in accordance with section office of the Company during normal amended.
Any such representative 437 of the Companies Act 2006. business hours on any weekday should bring to the Meeting written The Company may not require the weekends and public holidays evidence of his appointment, such as a shareholders requesting any such excluded from the date of this notice certified copy of a board resolution of, or website publication to pay its expenses until the conclusion of the Annual a letter from, the corporation concerned in complying with sections 527 or 528 General Meeting and on the date of the confirming the appointment.
A person of the Companies Act 2006.
Where Annual General Meeting at Pantheon, authorised by a corporation is entitled the Company is required to place a 4th Floor, 10 Finsbury Square, London, to exercise on behalf of the corporation statement on a website under section EC2A 1AF.
Copies will also be available the same powers as the corporation 527 of the Companies Act 2006, for inspection at the Annual General could exercise if it were an individual it must forward the statement to the Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the member of the Company.
On a vote on a Companys auditor not later than the Meeting and throughout the Meeting.
resolution on a show of hands, each time when it makes the statement authorised person has the same voting available on the website.
The business rights as the corporation would be which may be dealt with at the Annual entitled to.
On a vote on a resolution on a General Meeting includes any statement poll, if more than one authorised person that the Company has been required seeks to exercise a power in respect under section 527 of the Companies Act of the same shares, if they purport to 2006 to publish on a website.
exercise the power in the same way 14.
T he Annual Report incorporating as each other, the power is treated as this notice of Annual General Meeting, exercised in that way: and if they do the total number of shares in the not purport to exercise the power in Company, the totals of the voting rights the same way as each other, the power that members are entitled to exercise is treated as not exercised.
at the Meeting and, if applicable, any 13.
Shareholders should note that it is members statements, members possible that, pursuant to requests resolutions or members matters of made by shareholders of the Company business received by the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act after the date of this notice will be 2006, the Company may be required to available on the Companys website: publish on a website a statement setting www.
out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any
