D2 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2018 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Paragon Banking Group PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
The address of the registered office is 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B91 3QJ.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report in Section A2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates 2.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements, the Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 7 are being applied for the first time.
a IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative amendments The Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, came into force with effect from the Groups financial year ended 30 September 2018 and requires entities to present a note to the accounts describing movements in liabilities arising from financing cash flows.
The Group already presented such a note on a voluntary basis and the minor amendments to note 64 required by the standard have been made in the preparation of these accounts.
The introduction of the new standard has no impact on reported profits, assets, liabilities or equity.
b Standards not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases Other standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 largely replaces the requirements of the existing financial instruments standard, IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It addresses the areas of recognition, bases of valuation, income recognition methods, impairment and hedging for financial instruments and will become the standard governing the Groups accounting for Loans to Customers, Borrowings and Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities.
Only the rules relating to the Groups portfolio hedging arrangements will remain subject to IAS 39.
This standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019 and work is well progressed to assess its impact and develop new procedures.
Many of the current rules applying to the Group are repeated in broadly similar form in the new standard.
In particular, the amortised cost basis of valuation and the related EIR method of income recognition remain largely unchanged.
The greatest impact from the new standard is likely to be on impairment provisions, but the requirements addressing classification and measurement and hedging also change.
The application of this new standard is discussed in detail in note 3 below.
IFRS 15 IFRS 15 will replace the standards currently governing the recognition of that part of the Groups income which does not derive directly from financial assets, that is the amounts shown as maintenance income in note 20 and the amounts shown in note 22.
It affects the timing of recognition of revenue items, but not generally the overall amount recognised.
The standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019.
A preliminary review exercise has taken place and the Group has concluded that the introduction of the new standard will not have a material impact on its results or financial position.
PAGE 150 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts IFRS 16 IFRS 16 will replace the standards currently governing the accounting for operating and finance leases and will come in to force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2020, unless the Group decides to adopt it early.
The standard will address accounting by lessees and lessors, but the provisions for lessor accounting are little changed from those in IAS 17 and so the accounting for the Groups finance lease receivables will be largely unaffected.
Accounting by lessees will be changed significantly, with a right of use asset recognised on the balance sheet for all leases, based on discounted future commitments.
This includes leases presently treated as operating leases and not recognised on the balance sheet.
The Groups commitments under such leases are described in note 65 b and a preliminary review of the standard indicates the changes are unlikely to have a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
IMPLEMENTATION OF IFRS 9 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments applies to the Group from 1 October 2018.
Its principal provisions applying to the Group and their impacts are set out below.
Impairment of financial assets Requirements IFRS 9 changes the basis of recognition of impairment of financial assets from an incurred loss to an expected credit loss ECL approach for financial assets held at amortised cost.
This introduces a number of new concepts and changes to the approach to provisioning set out in IAS 39.
ECLs are based on an assessment of the probability of default PD and loss given default LGD, discounted to give a net present value.
The estimation of ECL should be unbiased and probability weighted, considering all reasonable and supportable information, including forward looking economic assumptions and a range of possible outcomes.
This has the effect of recognising losses on loans earlier than at present, as IAS 39 requires provisions to be made only at the point where there is objective evidence of credit impairment.
IFRS 9 also requires that companies calculate impairment under a variety of differing economic scenarios and calculate a weighted average provision, rather than base calculations on a central forecast, as is generally the case under IAS 39.
IFRS 9 divides loans into three classes: those where there has been no significant increase in credit risk since advance or acquisition: those where there has been a significant increase in credit risk SICR : and loans which are impaired.
It is an important feature of the standard that SICR is not defined solely by the performance of the account, but also by other information available about the customer, such as credit bureau information.
On initial recognition, and for assets where there has not been an SICR, provisions will be made to the level of expected credit default events within the next year.
These accounts would be largely unprovided for under IAS 39, although some cases with adverse qualitative indicators might attract an emergence provision Where a loan has experienced an SICR, even though this may not lead to a conclusion that the loan is credit impaired, provisions will be made based on the expected credit losses over the full life of the loan.
This is likely to lead to an increase in provision in general, though the IAS 39 emergence provision would also address some of this risk For credit impaired assets, provisions will be made on the basis of lifetime expected credit losses, taking account of forward looking economic assumptions and a range of possible outcomes.
Under IAS 39 provisions are based on the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Despite IAS 39 not explicitly taking account of alternative economic scenarios, it is likely that provisions for loans in this condition will be broadly similar to their existing values For assets which were purchased or originated credit impaired POCI accounts i. e. considered as credit impaired at the point of first recognition, such as certain of the Groups acquired assets in Idem Capital, the required treatment is largely similar under IAS 39 and IFRS 9 Overall, the introduction of IFRS 9 is likely to result in companies carrying a larger provision balance and recognising losses earlier.
However, the profit and loss effect is broadly one of timing, with the same amount of provision per case ultimately charged to profit.
Impact on the Group The most significant elements of the Groups provision calculation for any given asset will be: Definition of default, which is used in PD modelling.
This has been selected to ensure alignment with internal operational procedures and to be capable of objective modelling and analysis in the model build process.
The standard provides a rebuttable presumption of default where an account is more than 90 days overdue, which was used as the starting point for this exercise.
Other factors include account management activities such as appointment of a receiver or enforcement procedures.
A variety of quantitative and qualitative measures was considered in the process The PD, both on a twelve month and a lifetime basis, where default is defined as above, which the Group intends to base on statistical models for its most significant asset classes.
The PD calculation is a function of future economic assumptions.
The economic variables used were derived through analysis of correlation in historic data.
They include such measures as UK gross domestic product and consumer and house price inflation The LGD for each account, which is calculated in a similar fashion to the present calculations under IAS 39.
This includes consideration of future account movements, costs and security values together with the Groups potential case management activities PAGE 151 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The economic inputs to the model, where the central forecast represents the scenario used in the Groups planning process and the alternative scenarios are based on versions of this forecast flexed upwards and downwards and the Bank of Englands stress scenario The identification of SICR, which is based primarily on changes in the calculated PD, but also includes consideration of other qualitative indicators and the adoption of the backstop assumption in the standard that all cases which are more than 30 days overdue have an SICR In certain asset classes a full modelled approach is not possible, normally where there are few assets in the class, where there is insufficient historical data on which to base an analysis or where certain measures, such as days past due are not useful.
In these cases, which represent a small part of the total portfolio, alternative approaches, which rely on internal credit monitoring practices and professional credit judgement, are adopted.
Notwithstanding the mechanical procedures discussed above, the Group will always consider whether the process generates sufficient provision for particular loans, especially large exposures, and will provide additional amounts as appropriate.
Implementation project During the year, the Group has continued its project to ensure compliance with the new requirements.
The project includes finance, analysis and credit risk personnel, is sponsored by the Chief Financial Officer and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Model builds and ongoing validation are subject to the oversight of the Model Risk Committee.
Project workflows have included analysis of historic internal and external credit performance metrics, prototype model design and consideration of how external economic factors should affect IFRS 9 impairments.
This has made use of the Groups substantial data history and data handling capabilities.
External consultants and the Groups auditors have been engaged with as appropriate.
The project team have also engaged with external initiatives to gauge best practice and participated in dialogue with regulators.
Base PD and LGD models have been completed for all of the Groups most material asset classes and indicative outputs have been provided to Credit Committee on a business as usual basis during the year.
Where a modelled approach is not being applied, detailed proposals for the provisioning approach have been developed and the appropriate provisions evaluated.
Work will continue to evaluate, test and revise these models and other approaches though business as usual running in the coming financial year.
This will include the updating of historical analysis to reflect the latest available data as it becomes available.
The process of testing, updating, validating and refreshing models, inputs and other approaches will continue as part of the accounting process going forward.
The Audit Committee has received regular presentations throughout the process, alongside training sessions on specific aspects of the IFRS 9 provisioning approach.
Classification and measurement The classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is based on the objectives of a companys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
Financial assets are classified as held at amortised cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income, or at fair value through profit or loss.
For an asset to be held at amortised cost the cash flows received from it must comprise solely payments of principal and interest SPPI.
The Group has considered its products and concluded that, as standard lending products, they will fall within the SPPI criteria.
Therefore, the changes from the classification under IAS 39 are not expected to be significant for the Group.
Hedge accounting The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 are designed to create a stronger link with financial risk management, however these provisions do not cover macro hedge accounting including portfolio hedges of interest rate risk.
A separate financial reporting standard is to be developed in this area.
IFRS 9 allows the option to continue to apply the existing hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 until this is implemented.
As the Groups hedging arrangements are either macro hedges, which are not included in the new standard or bespoke cash flow hedges which would not be affected by the change of standard, the Group has decided to defer application of these rules until the full new hedge accounting regime is in place.
Impact It is estimated that the Groups new IFRS 9 provisioning approach will result in an increase in provisions of approximately 27m.
The total impact on equity, net of tax is expected to be a reduction of 22m.
This estimate is provisional and may be subsequently changed as the Group continues to further develop, calibrate and test its provisioning models, as described above.
PAGE 152 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Transition arrangements The Group will not restate comparatives on its adoption of IFRS 9, but will issue a separate transition report.
The report will be published before the publication of the half yearly report for the six months ending 31 March 2019.
The Group intends to take advantage of the transitional relief on regulatory capital, which will spread the impact of the introduction of IFRS 9 on capital over a five year period.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
In the financial years reported upon this means that, in the Groups circumstances, the financial statements accord also with International Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The particular policies applied are described below.
a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as required in the valuation of certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements deal with the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2018.
Subsidiaries comprise all those entities over which the Group has control and are listed in note 67.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by group companies were sold as part of its warehouse and securitisation funding arrangements, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Groups employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
c Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Accounting standards require the directors to assess the Groups ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
In performing this assessment, the directors consider all available information about the future, the possible outcomes of events and changes in conditions and the realistically possible responses to such events and conditions that would be available to them, having regard to the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
In order to assess the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors considered the Groups financial position, the cash flow requirements laid out in its forecasts, its access to funding, the assumptions underlying the forecasts and the potential risks affecting them.
After performing this assessment, the directors concluded that it was appropriate for them to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
d Acquisitions and goodwill Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair values of acquired assets, including intangible assets, is held on the balance sheet and reviewed annually to determine whether any impairment has occurred.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to combinations taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of the business to which it relates.
Contingent consideration arising on acquisitions is first recognised in the accounts at its fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently revalued at each accounting date until it falls due for payment or the final amount is otherwise determined.
e Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturities of not more than 90 days.
PAGE 153 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts f Short term investments Short term investments are held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are consequently measured at their fair value which corresponds to their market value at the balance sheet date.
g Leases Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
A finance lease is deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
Rental income and costs under operating leases are credited or charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
h Loans to customers Loans to customers are considered to be loans and receivables as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
Loans advanced are valued at inception at the initial advance amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of procuration fees paid to brokers or other business providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
Loans acquired from third parties are initially valued at the purchase consideration paid or payable.
Thereafter, all loans to customers are valued at this initial amount less the cumulative amortisation calculated using the EIR method.
The loan balances are then reduced where necessary by a provision for balances which are considered to be impaired.
The EIR method spreads the expected net income arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan to the initial carrying amount.
i Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and provision for impairment.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for on the actuarial basis.
j Impairment of loans and receivables Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of possible impairment throughout the year and at each balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39.
Where loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment a loss event the carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present value of their expected future cash flows, including the value of the potential realisation of any security net of sales costs discounted at the original EIR.
Within its buy-to-let portfolio the Group utilises a receiver of rent process, whereby the receiver stands between the landlord and tenant and will determine an appropriate strategy for dealing with any delinquency.
This strategy may involve the immediate sale of any underlying security or the short or long term letting of the property to cover arrears and principal shortfalls.
Where a letting strategy is adopted by the receiver, a tenant is in place and arrears are reduced or cleared, the account will not necessarily attract an impairment provision.
Properties in receivership are eventually either returned to their landlord owners or sold.
Loss events reflect both loans that display delinquency in contractual payments of principal or interest or, for buy-to-let loans in receivership but up to date at the balance sheet date, properties where the receiver adopts a sale strategy, where a shortfall may or may not arise.
In addition to loans where loss events are evident, loans are also assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account is taken of any impairment arising due to events which are believed to have taken place but have not been specifically identified at the balance sheet date.
Collective impairment provisions are calculated for each key portfolio based on recent historical performance, with adjustments for expected changes in losses based on managements judgement.
In the receiver of rent portfolio collective provisions are also established for cases where the present strategy might not be sustainable.
For loan portfolios acquired at a discount, the discounts take account of future expected impairments.
An impairment charge is only recognised in the income statement if the total receipts from an acquired portfolio are below the original purchase price.
Changes to expected cash flows from acquired portfolios are reflected by discounting the future expected cash flows by the original effective interest rate, with any change from the prevailing carrying value being recognised in the income statement.
For financial accounting purposes provisions for impairments of loans to customers when first recognised in the income statement are held in an allowance account.
These balances are released to offset against the gross value of the loan when it is written off to profit and loss on the administration system.
After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan.
PAGE 154 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts k Amounts owed by or to group companies In the accounts of the Company, balances owed by or to other group companies are carried at the current amount outstanding less any provision.
Where balances owing between group companies fall within the definition of either financial assets or financial liabilities given in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation they are classified as Loans and Receivables or Other financial liabilities, respectively.
l Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets held for letting under operating leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments to their estimated residual value over the life of the related lease.
This depreciation is deducted in arriving at net lease income and is shown in note 20.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed by management and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation on operating assets is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold premises 2% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease Computer hardware 25% per annum Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 15% per annum Company motor vehicles 25% per annum m Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise purchased computer software and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Purchased computer software is capitalised where it has a sufficiently enduring nature and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Other intangible assets acquired in business combinations include brands and business networks and are capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Such assets are stated at attributed cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate determined at the point of acquisition.
n Investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
o Own shares Shares in Paragon Banking Group PLC held in treasury or by the trustee of the Groups employee share ownership plan are shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are stated at cost.
p Retail deposits Retail deposits are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial fair value recognised represents the cash amount received from the customer.
Interest payable to the customer is expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the deposit term on an EIR basis.
q Borrowings Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised includes the principal amount received less any discount on issue or costs of issuance.
Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the term of the borrowing on an EIR basis.
PAGE 155 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts r Central bank facilities Where central bank facilities are provided at a below market rate of interest, and therefore fall within the definition of government assistance as defined by IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance the liability is initially recognised at the value of its expected cash flows discounted at a market rate of interest for a comparable commercial borrowing.
Interest is recognised on this liability on an EIR basis, using the imputed market rate to determine the EIR.
The remaining amount of the advance is recognised as deferred government assistance and released to the profit and loss account through interest payable over the periods during which the arrangement affects profit.
s Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, as assets where the value is positive or as liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there is no active market, fair value is calculated using present value models which incorporate assumptions based on market conditions and are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement, except where such amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of the accounting for a cash flow hedge.
t Hedging For all hedges, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items at inception, as well as its risk management strategy and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be highly effective as defined by IAS 39.
For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed highly effective and meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset against the fair value loss or gain arising from the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan assets or retail deposit liabilities this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over the remaining term of the underlying item.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of cash flows of an asset or liability, it may be designated as a cash flow hedge so long as this relationship meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
The amount taken to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income statement.
Where a cash flow hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to equity will remain there until the hedged transaction occurs, or is no longer highly probable.
u Taxation The charge for taxation represents the expected UK corporation tax including the Bank Corporation Tax surcharge where applicable and other income taxes arising from the Groups profit for the year.
This consists of the current tax which will be shown in tax returns for the year and tax deferred because of temporary differences.
This in general, represents the tax impact of items recorded in the current year but which will impact tax returns for periods other than the one in which they are included in the financial statements.
The Group holds a provision for uncertain tax positions at the balance sheet date based on a global assessment of the expected amount that will ultimately be payable.
Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also taken directly to equity.
v Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As required by IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the expected timing of realisation.
w Retirement benefit obligations The expected cost of providing pensions within the funded defined benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualified actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and do not form part of the result for the period, being recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
The expected financing cost of the deficit, as estimated at the beginning of the period is recognised in the result for the period within interest payable.
Any variances against the estimated amount in the year form part of the actuarial gain or loss.
The charge to the income statement for providing pensions under defined contribution pension schemes is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes for the year.
PAGE 156 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts x Revenue The revenue of the Group comprises interest receivable and similar charges and other income.
The accounting policy for the recognition of each element of revenue is described separately within these accounting policies.
y Fee and commission income Other income includes: Administration fees charged to borrowers other than the initial fees included in amortised cost, which are credited when the related service is performed Fees charged to third parties for account administration services, which are credited as those services are performed Commissions receivable on the sale of insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income Maintenance income charged as part of the Groups contract hire arrangements which is recognised as the services are provided.
Costs of these services are deducted in other income Broker fees receivable on the arrangement of loans funded by third parties, which are taken to profit at the point of completion of the related loan z Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
National Insurance on share based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
aa Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
However, such dividends are deducted from regulatory capital from the point at which they are announced, and capital disclosures are prepared on this basis.
bb Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash flow hedging provisions of IAS 39. cc Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Interest payable by each segment includes directly attributable funding and the allocated cost of retail deposit funds utilised.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations.
PAGE 157 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 5.
FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires that where assets are measured at fair value these measurements should be classified using the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
This hierarchy reflects the inputs used, and defines three levels.
Level 1 measurements are unadjusted market prices Level 2 measurements are derived from directly or indirectly observable data, such as market prices or rates Level 3 measurements rely on significant inputs which are not derived from observable data As quoted prices are not available for level 2 and 3 measurements, the valuation is derived from cash flow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
The Group had no financial assets or liabilities in the year ended 30 September 2018 or the year ended 30 September 2017 carried at fair value and valued using level 3 measurements, other than contingent consideration amounts note 52.
The Group has not reclassified any of its measurements during the year.
The methods by which fair value is established for each class of financial assets and liabilities are set out below.
a Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial assets and liabilities Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values in the accounts.
The Group uses a number of techniques to determine the fair values of its derivative assets and liabilities, for which observable prices in active markets are not available.
These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash flows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate.
The principal inputs to these valuation models are LIBOR benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the instruments are denominated, being sterling, euros and dollars.
The cross-currency basis swaps have a notional principal related to the outstanding currency borrowings and therefore the estimated rate of repayment of these notes also affects the valuation of the swaps.
In order to determine the fair values the management applies valuation adjustments to observed data where that data would not fully reflect the attributes of the instrument being valued, such as particular contractual features or the identity of the counterparty.
The management reviews the models used on an ongoing basis to ensure that the valuations produced are reasonable and reflect all relevant factors.
These valuations are based on market information and they are therefore classified as level 2 measurements.
Details of these assets are given in note 40.
Contingent consideration The value of the contingent considerations shown in note 52 are required to be stated at fair value in the accounts.
These amounts are valued based on the expected outcomes of the performance tests set out in respective sale and purchase agreements, discounted as appropriate.
The most significant inputs to these valuations are the Groups forecasts on future activity relating to the businesses or individuals concerned, which are drawn from the overall Group forecasting model.
As such, these are classified as unobservable inputs and the valuations classified as level 3 measurements.
Short term investments The short term investments described in note 34 are freely traded securities for which a market price quotation is available and are classified as level 1 measurements.
b Assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost Cash, bank loans and securitisation borrowings The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes, which are carried at amortised cost are considered to be not materially different from their book values.
In arriving at that conclusion market inputs have been considered but because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset to market rates on a quarterly basis, little difference arises.
This also applies to the parent companys loans to its subsidiaries.
While the Groups asset backed loan notes are listed, the quoted prices for an individual note may not be indicative of the fair value of the issue as a whole, due to the specialised nature of the market in such instruments and the limited number of investors participating in it.
As these valuation exercises are not wholly market based they are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Corporate debt The Groups retail and corporate bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and there is presently a reasonably liquid market in the instruments.
It is therefore appropriate to consider that the market price of these borrowings constitutes a fair value.
As this valuation is based on a market price, it is considered to be a level 1 measurement.
PAGE 158 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Retail deposits To assess the likely fair value of the Groups retail deposit liabilities, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as withdrawal rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs, these are considered to be level 3 measurements.
Loan assets To assess the likely fair value of the Groups loan assets in the absence of a liquid market, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise from the Groups investments in its loans to customers based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs these are considered to be level 3 measurements.
Sundry assets and liabilities Fair values of financial assets and liabilities disclosed as sundry assets and sundry liabilities are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
These assets and liabilities are of relatively low value and may be settled at their carrying value at the balance sheet date or thereafter.
The Group has reviewed its classification of the level of valuations for retail deposits and loan assets, where valuations are derived from a mixture of observable and non-observable outputs, and concluded it is more in line with market practice to classify them as level 3 measurements rather than, as previously, level 2.
The fair values for financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, other than those where carrying values are so low that any difference would be immaterial, determined in accordance with the methodologies set out above are summarised below.
PAGE 159 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 6.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most significant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models, applied to the present status, performance and management strategy for the loans concerned which are used to indicate cases for which a specific provision might be required.
Indicators will include number of months arrears, qualitative information, such as possession by a first charge holder on a second charge mortgage or where a buy-to-let case is under the control of a receiver of rent, the receivers present and likely future strategy for the property e. g. keeping current tenants in place, refurbish and relet, immediate sale etc.
Where a letting strategy has been adopted for a buy-to-let case in receivership, with a tenant in place, arrears reduced or cleared and the capital balance potentially reducing, the account will not necessarily attract an impairment provision, dependant on the management strategy adopted.
The key assumptions in the models relate to estimates of future cash flows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property or other charged assets.
These cash flows will include payments received from the customer, and, for buy-to-let cases where a receiver of rent is appointed, rental receipts from tenants, after allowing for void periods and running costs.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
In addition, the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reflect current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
Similarly, if the account management approach assumed in the modelling cannot be adopted the provision required may be different.
To illustrate this the impairment provisions were recalculated by changing one factor in the calculation and keeping all others at their current levels.
This exercise indicated that: Adopting a sale strategy for 5% of currently let buy-to-let properties with a receiver of rent in place would increase impairment provisions by 2.1m 2017: 2.3m.
5% of receiver of rent properties currently vacant or for sale becoming fully performing would reduce impairment provisions by 0.3m 2017: 0.3m.
A 10% reduction in house prices would increase impairment provisions across the first mortgage assets by 1.7m 2017: 2.0m, while a 10% increase would reduce these impairment provisions by 1.5m 2017: 1.5m.
A reduction in cash flows from receiver of rent properties of 10% would increase impairment provision by 0.1m 2017: 0.1m.
It should be noted that all of these changes would, in reality be interrelated so examining them in isolation may not give reliable guidance as to future outcomes.
b Effective interest rates In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans and borrowings an estimate must be made of the expected life of each asset or liability and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
For purchased loan accounts this will involve estimating the likely future credit performance of the accounts at the time of acquisition.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
For purchased accounts historical data obtained from the vendor will be examined.
The accuracy of the EIR applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual repayment profiles and that predicted, which in turn would depend directly or indirectly in the case of borrowings on customer behaviour.
To illustrate this the amortised cost values were recalculated by changing one factor in the EIR calculation and keeping all others at their current levels.
This exercise indicated that: A reduction or increase of the assumed average lives of loans secured on residential property by three months would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 4.0m 2017: 2.0m A reduction or increase in estimated cash flows from purchased loan assets of 5% would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 10.3m 2017: 15.3m As any of these changes would, in reality, be accompanied by movements in other factors, actual outcomes may differ from these estimates.
PAGE 160 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts c Impairment of goodwill The carrying value of goodwill recognised on acquisitions is verified by use of an impairment test based on the projected cash flows for the cash generating unit, based on management forecasts and other assumptions described in note 44, including a discount factor.
The accuracy of this impairment calculation would therefore be compromised by any differences between these forecasts and the levels of business activity that the cash generating unit is able to achieve in practice.
This test will also be affected by the accuracy of the discount factor used.
The sensitivity of the impairment test to reasonably possible movements in these assumptions is discussed in note 44. d Retirement benefits The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions relating to inflation, long-term return on investments and mortality.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
Information on the sensitivity of the valuation to the various assumptions is given in note 56.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups objectives in managing capital are: To ensure that the Group has sufficient capital to meet its operational requirements and strategic objectives To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders To provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk To ensure that sufficient regulatory capital is available to meet any externally imposed requirements The Group sets its target amount of capital in proportion to risk, availability, regulatory requirements and cost.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets, having particular regard to the relative costs and availability of debt and equity finance at any given time.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, issue or redeem other capital instruments, such as retail or corporate bonds, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group is subject to regulatory capital rules imposed by the PRA on a consolidated basis as a group containing an authorised bank.
This is discussed further below.
a Dividend policy The Company is committed to a long term sustainable dividend policy.
Ordinarily, dividends will increase in line with earnings, subject to the requirements of the business and the availability of cash resources.
The Board reviews the policy at least twice a year in advance of announcing its results, taking into account the Groups strategy, capital requirements, principal risks and the objective of enhancing shareholder value.
In determining the level of dividend for any year, the Board expects to follow the dividend policy, but will also take into account the level of available retained earnings in the Company, its cash resources and the cash and capital requirements inherent in its business plans.
The distributable reserves of the Company comprise its profit and loss account balance note 58 and, other than the requirement for the Bank to retain an appropriate level of capital, there are no restrictions preventing profits elsewhere in the Group from being distributed to the parent.
The Board reviewed its dividend policy following Group reorganisation in September 2017, concluding that the changes made would make the Groups use of working capital more efficient and that there was, therefore, less need to retain earnings to support future growth.
It therefore determined that the targeted dividend cover ratio on the basis set out below would be reduced from 3.00 times, initially to 2.75 times for the year ended 30 September 2017 and then, subject to the requirements of the business, to 2.50 times for the current year.
The Company considers it has access to sufficient cash resources to pay dividends at this level and that its distributable reserves are abundant for this purpose.
To provide greater transparency, the Company has also indicated that in future its interim dividend per share will normally be 50% of the previous final dividend, in the absence of any indicators which might make such a level of payment inappropriate.
The most recent review, in September 2018, confirmed this policy but concluded that the significant one-off income and costs arising in the year, principally relating to asset sales and acquisitions should be excluded from earnings for this purpose.
The interim and final dividends for the year ended 30 September 2018 have been declared in accordance with the policy, as amended.
For the purposes of dividend policy the Group defines dividend cover based on earnings per share, adjusted where considered appropriate and dividend per share.
This is the most common measure used by financial analysts.
PAGE 161 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The derivation of the dividend for the year, which is subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM is set out below.
Note 2018 2017 32 Earnings per share p 55.9 43.1 Adjustment for one off items p 7.3 - Adjusted earnings per share p 48.6 43.1 Dividend cover times 2.50 2.75 60 Proposed dividend per share in respect of the year p 19.4 15.7 b Return on tangible equity RoTE RoTE is a measure of an entitys profitability used by investors.
RoTE is defined by the Group by comparing the profit after tax for the year, adjusted for amortisation charged on intangible assets, to the average of the opening and closing equity positions, excluding intangible assets and goodwill.
The Groups consolidated RoTE for the year ended 30 September 2018 is derived as follows: Note 2018 2017 m m Profit for the year after tax 145.8 117.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 23 2.1 1.6 Adjusted profit 147.9 118.8 Divided by Opening equity 1,009.4 969.5 Opening intangible assets 43 104.4 105.4 Opening tangible equity 905.0 864.1 Closing equity 1,095.9 1,009.4 43 Closing intangible assets 169.3 104.4 Closing tangible equity 926.6 905.0 Average tangible equity 915.8 884.5 Return on Tangible Equity 16.1% 13.4% This table is not subject to audit PAGE 162 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts c Gearing The Board regularly review the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity.
Net debt is calculated as total debt, other than securitised and warehouse debt, valued at principal value, less free cash up to a maximum of the total debt.
Adjusted equity comprises all components of equity share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, retained earnings, and revaluation surplus other than amounts recognised in equity relating to cash flow hedges.
The debt and equity amounts at 30 September 2018 and at 30 September 2017 were as follows: Note 2018 2017 m m Debt 49 Retail bonds 297.5 297.5 Corporate bonds 50 150.0 150.0 Bank overdraft 1.1 0.6 Less: Applicable free cash 33 238.0 305.5 Net debt 210.6 142.6 Equity Total equity 1,095.9 1,009.4 Less: cash flow hedging reserve 58 3.3 2.5 Adjusted equity 1,092.6 1,006.9 Total working capital 1,303.2 1,149.5 Debt 16.2% 12.4% Equity 83.8% 87.6% Total working capital 100.0% 100.0% The movements in the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity during the year ended 30 September 2018 resulted primarily from the operation of the policy described above.
PAGE 163 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts d Regulatory capital The Group is subject to supervision by the PRA on a consolidated basis, as a group containing an authorised bank.
As part of this supervision the regulator will issue individual capital guidance setting an amount of regulatory capital, which the Group is required to hold relative to its risk weighted assets in order to safeguard depositors from loss in the event of severe losses being incurred by the Group.
This is defined by the international Basel III rules, set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS and currently implemented in UK law by EU Regulation 575 2013, referred to as the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR.
The Groups regulatory capital is monitored by the Board, its Risk and Compliance Committee and the Asset and Liability Committee, who ensure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the regulators requirements.
The future regulatory capital requirement is also considered as part of the Groups forecasting and strategic planning process.
The tables below demonstrate that at 30 September 2018 the Groups regulatory capital of 1,045.7m 2017: 1,030.5m was comfortably in excess of the amounts required by the regulator, including 727.7m in respect of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2a capital unaudited, which is comprised of fixed and variable elements.
The CRR also requires firms to hold additional capital buffers, including a Capital Conservation Buffer of 1.875% of risk weighted assets at 30 September 2018 and a Counter-Cyclical Buffer, currently 0.5% of risk weighted assets.
Firm specific buffers may also be required.
The Groups regulatory capital differs from its equity as certain adjustments are required by the regulator.
A reconciliation of the Groups equity to its regulatory capital determined in accordance with CRD IV at 30 September 2018 is set out below.
Note 2018 2017 m m Total equity 1,095.9 1,009.4 Deductions Proposed final dividend 60 35.8 28.9 Intangible assets 43 169.3 104.4 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital 890.8 876.1 Other Tier 1 capital - - Total Tier 1 capital 890.8 876.1 Corporate bond 50 150.0 150.0 Less: amortisation adjustment - - 150.0 150.0 Collectively assessed credit impairment allowances 4.9 4.4 Total Tier 2 capital 154.9 154.4 Total regulatory capital 1,045.7 1,030.5 When tier 2 capital instruments have less than five years to maturity the amount eligible as regulatory capital reduces by 20% per annum.
No such adjustment is required in respect of the Corporate Bond issued in the year ended 30 September 2016, which matures in 2026 The total exposure amount calculated under the CRD IV framework against which this capital is held, and the proportion of these assets it represents, are calculated as shown below.
2018 2017 m m Credit risk Balance sheet assets 5,767.3 4,907.7 Off balance sheet 87.8 68.3 Total credit risk 5,855.1 4,976.0 Operational risk 485.1 464.9 Market risk - - Other 105.1 67.8 Total exposure amount 6,445.3 5,508.7 Solvency ratios % % CET1 13.8 15.9 Total regulatory capital 16.2 18.7 This table is not subject to Audit PAGE 164 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The CRD IV risk weightings for credit risk exposures are calculated using the Standardised Approach.
The Basic Indicator Approach is used for operational risk.
The table below shows the calculation of the UK leverage ratio, based on the consolidated balance sheet assets adjusted as shown.
The PRA has proposed a minimum UK leverage ratio of 3.25% for UK firms.
Note 2018 2017 m m Total balance sheet assets 14,515.1 13,682.2 Add: Credit fair value adjustments on loans to customers 35 24.1 8.7 Debit fair value adjustments on retail deposits 46 4.2 3.5 Adjusted balance sheet assets 14,543.4 13,694.4 40 Less: Derivative assets 855.7 906.6 Central bank deposits 33 895.9 615.0 CRDs 41 6.2 1.6 Accrued interest on sovereign exposures 0.4 - On-balance sheet items 12,785.2 12,171.2 43 Less: Intangible assets 169.3 104.4 Total on balance sheet exposures 12,615.9 12,066.8 Derivative assets 40 855.7 906.6 Potential future exposure on derivatives 172.1 191.3 Total derivative exposures 1,027.8 1,097.9 Post offer pipeline at gross notional amount 817.7 417.9 Adjustment to convert to credit equivalent amounts 569.2 208.9 Off balance sheet items 248.5 209.0 Tier 1 capital 890.8 876.1 Total leverage exposure 13,892.2 13,373.7 UK leverage ratio 6.4% 6.6% This table is not subject to audit The UK leverage ratio is prescribed by the PRA and differs from the leverage ratio defined by Basel and the CRR due to the exclusion of central bank balances from exposures.
The regulatory capital disclosures in these financial statements relate only to the consolidated position for the Group.
Individual entities within the Group are also subject to supervision on a standalone basis.
All such entities complied with the requirements to which they were subject during the year.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The principal risks arising from the Groups exposure to financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk particularly, interest rate risk and currency risk.
These risks are discussed in notes 9 to 12 respectively.
The Board has a Risk and Compliance Committee, consisting of the Chairman and the non-executive directors which is responsible for providing oversight and challenge to the Groups risk management arrangements.
The Credit Committee and ALCO are executive sub-committees of the Risk and Compliance Committee which monitor performance against the risk appetites set by the Board and make recommendations for changes in risk appetite where appropriate.
They also review and, where authorised to do so, agree or amend policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised in the relevant note.
The Corporate Governance Statement in Section B3 which is not subject to audit provides further detail on the operations of these committees.
The financial risk management policies have remained unchanged throughout the year and since the year end.
The position discussed in notes 9 to 12 is materially similar to that existing throughout the year.
PAGE 165 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 9. CREDIT RISK The Groups business objectives rely on maintaining a high-quality customer base and place strong emphasis on good credit management, both at the time of acquiring or underwriting a new loan, where strict lending criteria are applied, and throughout the loans life.
Primary responsibility for credit risk management across the Group lies with the Credit Committee.
The Credit Committee is made up of senior employees, drawn from financial and risk functions independent of the underwriting process.
It is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
Its key responsibilities include setting and reviewing credit policy, controlling applicant quality, tracking account performance against targets, agreeing product criteria and lending guidelines and monitoring performance and trends.
The assets of the Group and the Company which are subject to credit risk are set out below: Note The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Loans to customers 35 12,127.8 11,124.1 - - Trade receivables 41 2.2 4.2 - - 40 Derivative financial assets 855.7 906.6 - - 41 Amounts owed by Group companies - - 216.3 40.1 41 CSA assets 3.8 2.0 - - CRDs 41 6.2 1.6 - - Cash 33 1,310.6 1,496.9 24.9 277.6 Accrued interest income 41 0.6 0.2 0.7 - Maximum exposure to credit risk 14,306.9 13,535.6 241.9 317.7 While this maximum exposure represents the potential loss which might have to be accounted for by the Group, the terms on which a significant proportion of the Groups loan assets are funded, described under Liquidity Risk in note 10, limit the amount of principal repayments on the Groups securitised and warehouse borrowings in cases of capital losses on assets, considerably reducing the effective shareholder value at risk.
Loans to customers The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its loans to customers.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk to individual counterparties due to the large number of customers included in the portfolios.
The Groups balance sheet loan assets at 30 September 2018 are analysed as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 m % m % Buy-to-let mortgages 10,261.6 84.6% 9,836.5 88.4% Owner-occupied mortgages 70.6 0.6% 19.0 0.2% Total first charge residential mortgages 10,332.2 85.2% 9,855.5 88.6% Second charge mortgage loans 415.9 3.5% 490.7 4.4% Loans secured on residential property 10,748.1 88.7% 10,346.2 93.0% Development finance 352.8 2.9% 42.3 0.4% Loans secured on property 11,100.9 91.6% 10,388.5 93.4% Motor finance loans 329.4 2.7% 163.0 1.5% Other consumer loans 173.7 1.4% 219.1 2.0% Asset finance loans 403.4 3.3% 323.6 2.9% Factoring and discounting balances 34.9 0.3% 23.8 0.2% Professions finance 42.6 0.4% 1.4 - Structured lending 38.7 0.3% - - Other commercial loans 4.2 - 4.7 - Total loans to customers 12,127.8 100.0% 11,124.1 100.0% PAGE 166 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Other consumer loans include unsecured loans either advanced by Group companies or acquired from their originators at a discount.
Professions finance includes loans originated by the acquired Iceberg business note 14.
These are generally short term unsecured loans made to lawyers and accountants for working capital purposes.
The Groups underwriting philosophy is based on a combination of sophisticated individual credit assessment and the automated efficiencies of a scored decision making process.
Information on each applicant is combined with data taken from a credit reference bureau to provide a complete credit picture of the applicant and the borrowing requested.
Key information is validated through a combination of documentation and statistical data which collectively provides evidence of the applicants ability and willingness to pay the amount contracted under the loan agreement.
In assessing credit risk, even where the Group would have security on a proposed loan, an applicants ability and propensity to repay the loan remain the principal factors in the decision to lend.
In considering whether to acquire pools of loan assets, the Group will undertake a due diligence exercise on the underlying loan accounts.
Such assets are generally not fully performing and are offered at a discount to their current balance.
The Groups procedures may include inspection of original loan documents, verification of security and the examination of the credit status of borrowers.
Current and historic cash flow data will also be examined.
The objective of the exercise is to establish, to a level of confidence similar to that provided by the underwriting process, that the assets will generate sufficient cash flows to recover the Groups investment and generate an appropriate return without exposing the Group to material operational or conduct risks.
First mortgages and secured loans are secured by charges over residential properties in England and Wales, or similar Scottish or Northern Irish securities.
Motor finance loans and asset finance loans are effectively secured by the financed asset.
Development finance loans are secured by the development property and various charges over the build.
Structured lending and invoice finance balances are effectively secured over the assets of the customer, with security enhanced by maintaining balances at a level less than the total amount of the security the advance percentage.
An analysis of the indexed loan to value ratio LTV for those loan accounts secured on residential property by value at 30 September 2018 is set out below.
LTVs for second charge mortgages are calculated allowing for the interest of the first charge holder, while for acquired accounts the effect of any discount on purchase is allowed for.
The increase in the LTV ratio for the owner-occupied accounts relates to the greater number of new lending accounts, which have higher LTV levels than legacy cases.
PAGE 167 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The number of accounts in arrears by asset class, based on the most commonly quoted definition of arrears for the type of asset, at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017, compared to the industry averages at those dates published by UK Finance UKF and the FLA, was: 2018 2017 % % First mortgages Accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.11 0.08 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.03 0.02 Owner-occupied accounts 3.15 3.55 UKF data for mortgage accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.42 0.45 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.38 0.41 Owner-occupied accounts 0.86 0.95 All mortgages 0.78 0.86 Second charge mortgage loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears All accounts 13.64 17.55 Post-2010 originations 0.21 0.06 Legacy cases Pre-2010 originations 17.91 16.75 Purchased assets 14.81 19.69 FLA data for secured loans 9.40 11.20 Car loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 3.91 0.67 FLA data for point of sale hire purchase 2.50 2.20 Asset finance loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 0.78 0.97 FLA data for business lease hire purchase loans 0.70 0.60 No published industry data for asset classes comparable to the Groups other books has been identified.
Where revised data at 30 September 2017 has been published by the FLA or UKF, the comparative industry figures above have been amended.
Arrears information is not given for development finance or factoring activities as the structure of the products means that such a measure is not relevant.
The Group calculates its headline arrears measure for buy-to-let mortgages, shown above, based on the numbers of accounts three months or more in arrears, including purchased Idem Capital assets, but excluding those cases in possession and receiver of rent cases designated for sale.
This is consistent with the methodology used by UKF in compiling its statistics for the buy-to-let mortgage market as a whole.
The number of accounts in arrears will naturally be higher for legacy books, such as the Groups legacy second charge mortgages and residential first mortgages than for comparable active ones, as performing accounts pay off their balances, leaving arrears accounts representing a greater proportion of the total.
The figures shown above for secured loans incorporate purchased portfolios which generally include a high proportion of cases in arrears at the time of purchase and where this level of performance is allowed for in the discount to current balance represented by the purchase price.
However this will lead to higher than average reported arrears.
PAGE 168 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The payment status of the carrying balances of the Groups live loan assets, at 30 September 2018 and at 30 September 2017, split between those accounts considered as performing and those included in the population for impairment testing, is shown below.
Balances for immaterial asset classes are not shown.
Asset finance loans below includes other related loan balances.
Fully provided non-live accounts shown in note 38 are excluded from the tables below.
Days past due is not a relevant measure for the development finance, structured lending or invoice discounting businesses, due to their particular contractual arrangements.
First mortgages 2018 2017 m m Not past due 10,211.1 9,724.2 Arrears less than 3 months 101.7 112.6 Performing accounts 10,312.8 9,836.8 Arrears 3 to 6 months 3.0 1.1 Arrears 6 to 12 months 2.2 1.9 Arrears over 12 months 5.7 7.7 Possessions and similar cases 22.1 22.5 Impairment population 33.0 33.2 Total gross balances 10,345.8 9,870.0 Impairment provision on live cases 12.7 12.7 Timing adjustments 0.9 1.8 Carrying balance 10,332.2 9,855.5 PAGE 169 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Consumer and asset finance Second charge Motor finance Asset finance Total mortgage loans loans loans m m m m 30 September 2018 Not past due 350.7 310.8 388.6 1,050.1 Arrears less than 2 months 19.4 13.2 13.8 46.4 Performing accounts 370.1 324.0 402.4 1,096.5 Arrears 2 to 6 months 11.0 3.2 1.3 15.5 Arrears 6 to 9 months 4.1 0.9 0.7 5.7 Arrears 9 to 12 months 3.3 0.6 - 3.9 Arrears over 12 months 29.9 2.1 0.6 32.6 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - 0.5 0.5 Impairment population 48.3 6.8 3.1 58.2 Total gross balances 418.4 330.8 405.5 1,154.7 Impairment provision on live cases 1.5 1.7 1.7 4.9 Timing adjustments 1.0 0.3 0.4 1.1 Carrying balance 415.9 329.4 403.4 1,148.7 30 September 2017 Not past due 400.8 158.0 315.3 874.1 Arrears less than 2 months 20.5 5.0 10.0 35.5 Performing accounts 421.3 163.0 325.3 909.6 Arrears 2 to 6 months 14.9 0.7 0.5 16.1 Arrears 6 to 9 months 7.1 0.2 0.7 8.0 Arrears 9 to 12 months 5.4 0.1 - 5.5 Arrears over 12 months 46.2 0.3 0.1 46.6 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - 2.7 2.7 Impairment population 73.6 1.3 4.0 78.9 Total gross balances 494.9 164.3 329.3 988.5 Impairment provision on live cases 2.1 1.2 3.1 6.4 Timing adjustments 2.1 0.1 1.2 3.4 Carrying balance 490.7 163.0 325.0 978.7 Arrears in the tables above are based on the contractual payment status of the customers concerned.
Where assets have been purchased by the Group, customers may already have been in arrears at the time of acquisition and an appropriate adjustment made to the consideration paid.
PAGE 170 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Acquired assets Almost all of the Groups unsecured consumer loan assets are part of purchased debt portfolios where the consideration paid will have been based on the credit quality and performance of the loans at the point of the transaction.
Collections on purchased accounts have been comfortably in excess of those implicit in the purchase prices.
In the debt purchase industry, Estimated Remaining Collections ERCs is commonly used as a measure of the value of a portfolio.
This is defined as the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to be received over a specified future period.
In the Groups view, this measure may be suitable for heavily discounted, unsecured, distressed portfolios, but is less applicable for the types of portfolio in which the Group has invested, where cash flows are higher on acquisition, loans may be secured on property and customers may not be in default.
In such cases, the IAS 39 amortised cost balance, at which these assets are carried in the Group balance sheet, provides a better indication of value.
However, to aid comparability the 84 and 120 month ERC values for the Groups purchased consumer loan assets, are set out below.
These are derived using the same models and assumptions used in the EIR calculations, but the differing bases of calculation lead to different outcomes.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Carrying value 84 month ERC 120 month ERC Carrying value 84 month ERC 120 month ERC m m m m m m Loans to customers 364.2 434.9 489.6 503.5 608.9 688.8 Amounts shown as loans to customers above include loans disclosed as first mortgages and other loans note 35 and are included in the aging tables above at their carrying values.
Buy-to-let receiver of rent cases Where a buy-to-let mortgage customer in England or Wales falls into arrears on their account the Group has the power to appoint a receiver of rent under the Law of Property Act.
The receiver will then manage the property on behalf of the customer, collecting rents and remitting them to make payments on the account.
While the receiver has the power to sell the property, in many cases they will operate it as a buy-to-let on at least a short to medium term basis, potentially longer, depending on the individual circumstances of the case.
This causes less disruption to the tenants and may result in the mortgage account returning to performing status and the property being handed back to the customer.
The Groups outstanding exposure to buy-to-let loans with an appointed receiver is set out below.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net m m m m m m Performing loans Let with less than 3 months arrears 106.6 1.1 105.5 113.3 - 113.3 Impaired loans Let with over 3 months arrears 5.9 2.5 3.4 7.0 2.7 4.3 Vacant or on sale 20.7 6.4 14.3 21.7 6.8 14.9 Impairment population 26.6 8.9 17.7 28.7 9.5 19.2 Total gross balances 133.2 10.0 123.2 142.0 9.5 132.5 PAGE 171 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Development finance Development finance cases include both originated accounts and accounts recognised on the Titlestone acquisition note 15.
Development finance loans do not require customers to make payments during the life of the loan, therefore arrears and past due measures cannot be used to monitor credit risk.
Instead, cases are monitored on an individual basis by management and Credit Risk.
The average loan to gross development value LTGDV ratio for the portfolio at year end, a measure of security cover, is analysed below.
LTGDV is calculated by comparing the current expected end of term exposure with the latest estimate of the value of the completed development based on surveyors reports.
At 30 September 2018 the development finance portfolio comprised 136 accounts 2017: 41 with a total carrying value of 352.8m 2017: 42.3m.
Of these accounts only four were considered at risk of loss 2017: none.
These accounts had been acquired in the Titlestone purchase where an allowance for losses was made in the IFRS 3 fair value calculation.
There was, therefore, no impairment provision under IAS 39 2017: nil.
Structured lending The Groups structured lending division provides revolving loan facilities to support non-bank lending businesses.
Loans are made to a Special Purpose Vehicle SPV company controlled by the customer and effectively secured on the loans made by the SPV.
Exposure is limited to a percentage of the underlying assets, providing a buffer against credit loss.
Summary details of the structured lending portfolio are set out below 2018 2017 Number of transactions 3 - Total facilities m 52.5 - Carrying value m 38.7 - The maximum advance under these facilities was 70% to 75% of the underlying assets and the Groups Credit Risk function monitors compliance with agreed covenants relating to both the customer and the asset pool.
At 30 September 2018 there were no significant concerns regarding the credit performance of these facilities and no provisions for impairment had been made.
PAGE 172 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Institutional exposures In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to the Groups derivative financial instruments and cash deposits, ALCO determines which counterparties the Group will deal with, establishes limits for each counterparty and monitors compliance with those limits.
Such counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a derivative counterparty to the Groups crosscurrency basis swaps fails to meet the required criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to provide a cash collateral deposit.
The amounts of these cash collateral deposits, which do not form part of the Groups cash position, are given in note 40.
The Groups exposure to credit risk in respect of the counterparties to its derivative financial assets, analysed by their long-term credit rating as determined by Fitch is set out below.
2018 2017 m m Carrying value of derivative financial assets Counterparties rated AA 7.9 - AA- 169.7 213.3 A 5.4 41.8 A 630.2 615.4 BBB 42.5 36.1 Gross exposure note 40 855.7 906.6 Collateral amounts posted 77.8 723.6 Net exposure 777.9 183.0 The reduction in collateral cover is the result of a major counterparty to the Groups cross-currency basis swaps no longer being required to post collateral due to the improved credit position of the institution, as determined by the independent trustees of the related note issues.
The Groups cash balances are held in sterling at the Bank of England and at highly rated banks in current and call accounts.
Cash is also invested in UK government securities and as short fixed term money market deposits.
The Group has a Wholesale Credit Risk Policy including limits on large exposures to mitigate any concentration risk in respect of its investments.
Credit risk on these balances, and the interest accrued thereon, is considered to be minimal.
Trade debtors The Groups trade debtors balance represents principally amounts outstanding on unpaid operating lease obligations in the asset finance business, where similar acceptance criteria to those used for finance lease cases apply.
PAGE 173 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 10.
LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might be unable meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Groups principal source of liquidity risk is from its retail deposit funding.
Deposit balances raised are typically used to support lending activities where maturity is over a longer period than that of the deposits.
This maturity transformation exposes the Group to liquidity risk.
Further liquidity risk arises: In the medium term from the Groups corporate and retail bonds which are used to support its general operations and from its participation in central bank funding schemes From the Groups derivatives portfolio which gives rise to liquidity risk due to the collateral requirements to cover adverse changes in valuation From the Groups participation in the SPVs where sufficient funding must be available Liquidity is also required to provide capital support for new loans and working capital for the Group.
Where assets are funded by non-recourse arrangements, through the securitisation process, liquidity risk is effectively eliminated.
The responsibility for managing liquidity risk rests with ALCO which makes recommendations for the Groups liquidity policy for Board approval and uses detailed cash flow projections to ensure that an adequate level of liquidity is available at all times.
The Groups liquidity position is managed on a day to day basis by the treasury function, under the supervision of ALCO.
Retail deposits The Groups retail funding strategy is focussed on building a stable mix of deposit products.
A high proportion of balances, 97.9%, are protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS which mitigates against the possibility of a retail run.
The cash outflows, including principal and estimated interest contractually required by the Groups retail deposit balances analysed by the earliest date at which repayment can be demanded are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Payable on demand 1,294.3 606.6 Payable in less than one year 2,380.5 1,652.5 Payable in less than one year or on demand 3,674.8 2,259.1 Payable in one to two years 1,068.8 795.5 Payable in two to five years 720.8 687.4 5,464.4 3,742.0 In order to reduce the liquidity risk inherent in the Groups retail deposit balances, the PRA requires that the Bank, like other regulated banks, maintains a buffer of liquid assets to ensure it has sufficient available funds at all times to protect against unforeseen circumstances.
The amount of this buffer is calculated using Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG set by the PRA based on the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP undertaken by the Bank.
The ILAAP determines the liquid resources that must be maintained in the Bank to meet its Overall Liquidity Adequacy Requirement OLAR and to ensure that it can meet its liabilities as they fall due.
It is based on an analysis of its business as usual forecast cash requirements but also considers their predicted behaviour in stressed conditions.
At 30 September 2018 the liquidity buffer comprised the following on and off balance sheet assets, all held within the Bank.
Note 2018 2017 m m Balances with central banks 33 724.9 615.0 Short term investments 34 - - Total on balance sheet liquidity 724.9 615.0 51 FLS drawings 108.7 109.0 833.6 724.0 The Bank manages its Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR, the level of its High Quality Liquid Assets HQLA relative to its short term forecast net cash outflows.
A minimum level of LCR, the Liquidity Coverage Requirement is set through regulation for all regulated financial institutions.
As at 30 September 2018, the Banks LCR was comfortably above the required minimum regulatory standard.
The Bank also monitors its Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR which measures the stability of the funding profile in relation to the composition of its assets and off-balance sheet activities.
Liquidity is not regulated at group level.
PAGE 174 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Borrowings Set out below is the contractual maturity profile of the Groups and the Companys borrowings at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 based on their carrying values.
These are analysed between non-recourse securitisation and other funding, with the liquidity position arising principally from the other funding.
PAGE 175 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Non-recourse funding The Group has historically used securitisation as a principal source of funding, but currently only accesses this market on a strategic basis.
In a securitisation an SPV company within the Group will issue asset backed loan notes Notes secured on a pool of mortgage or other loan assets beneficially owned by the SPV in a public offer.
The Notes have a maturity date later than the final repayment date for any asset in the pool, typically over thirty years from the issue date.
The noteholders are entitled to receive repayment of the Note principal from principal funds generated by the loan assets from time to time, but their right to the repayment of principal is limited to the cash available in the SPV.
Similarly, payment of accrued interest to the noteholders is limited to cash generated within the SPV.
There is no requirement for any Group company other than the issuing SPV to make principal or interest payments in respect of the Notes.
This matching of the maturities of the assets and the related funding substantially reduces the Groups exposure to liquidity risk.
Details of Notes in issue are given in note 47 and the assets backing the Notes are shown in note 36.
In each case the Group provides funding to the SPV at inception, subordinated to the Notes, which means that the primary credit risk on the pool assets is retained within the Group.
The Group receives the residual income generated by the assets.
These factors mean that the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets remain with the Group, and hence the loans remain on the Groups balance sheet.
Cash received from time to time in each SPV is held until the next interest payment date when, following payment of principal, interest and the associated costs of the SPV, the remaining balances become available to the Group.
Cash balances are also held within each SPV to provide credit enhancement for the particular securitisation, allowing interest and principal payments to be made even if some of the loans default.
To provide further credit enhancement in certain SPVs, specific economic trigger events exist which cause additional cash to be retained in the SPV rather than being transferred to the Group.
While the Group can, if it chooses, contribute additional cash to cover these requirements, it is under no obligation to do so.
No such events occurred in the year ended 30 September 2018 or the year ended 30 September 2017.
Whether any such events in any of the Groups other SPVs arise in the future will depend on the performance of the general economy and its impact on mortgage and loan arrears in each SPV.
However, if all of the remaining trigger events occurred, a total of 71.0m of additional cash would be retained in the SPV companies 2017: 80.5m.
The cash balances of the SPV companies are included within the restricted cash balances disclosed in note 33 as securitisation cash.
Newly originated mortgage loans may be initially funded by a revolving loan facility or warehouse from the point of their origination until their inclusion in a securitisation transaction or other refinancing.
A warehouse company functions in a similar way to an SPV, except that funds are drawn down as advances are made or loans are sold in, repaid when loans are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale and may subsequently be redrawn up to the end of a commitment period.
The Groups Paragon Second Funding facility was initiated as a warehouse, but is no longer available for new drawings.
Repayment of the principal amount of the facilities is not required unless amounts are realised from the secured assets either through repayment, securitisation or asset sales, even after the end of the period.
There is no further recourse to other assets of the Group in respect of either interest or principal on the borrowings.
The Group has reduced its available warehouse facilities in the period.
As with the SPVs, the Group provides subordinated funding to the warehouse companies and restricted cash balances are held within them.
Contributions to the subordinated funding are made each time a drawing on the facility concerned is made.
These amounts provide credit enhancement to the warehouse and cover certain fees.
This funding is repaid when assets are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale.
There were no active warehouse companies at 30 September 2018, but the amount of subordinated funding outstanding in the active warehouse companies at 30 September 2017 was 71.8m.
Further details of the warehouse facilities are given in note 48 and details of the loan assets within the warehouses are given in note 36.
The final repayment date for all of the securitisation borrowings and the Paragon Second Funding warehouse borrowing is more than five years from the balance sheet date, the earliest falling due in 2033 and the latest in 2050.
The equivalent sterling principal amount outstanding at 30 September 2018 under the SPV and warehouse arrangements, allowing for the effect of the cross-currency basis swaps, described under currency risk note 12, which are net settled with the loan payments, was 5,669.1m 2017: 6,894.6m.
The total sterling amount payable under these arrangements, were these principal amounts to remain outstanding until the final repayment date would be 8,874.2m 2017: 10,576.0m.
As the principal will, as discussed above, reduce as customers repay or redeem their accounts, the cash flow will be far less than this amount in practice.
Corporate debt In February 2013, the Company initiated a Euro Medium Term Note issuance programme, with a maximum issuance of 1,000.0m.
The Company had the ability to issue further notes under the programme and has issued three fixed rate bonds for a total of 297.5m, with interest rates ranging from 6.000% to 6.125% and maturities ranging from December 2020 to August 2024, the most recent issue of 112.5m being made in August 2015.
This programme offers the Group opportunities to raise further working capital if needed.
The Group also issued 150.0 of tier 2 debt in September 2016 with an optional call date in September 2021 and a final maturity of September 2026.
The Groups ability to issue debt is supported by its credit rating issued by Fitch which was increased to BBB from BBBin the period.
None of the Groups corporate or retail bond issuance falls due for payment earlier than 2020.
Central bank facilities The Group has accessed term facilities under the central bank schemes described in note 51.
The Group has prepositioned further assets with the Bank of England which can be used to release more funds for liquidity or other purposes.
At 30 September 2018 the amount of drawings available in respect of prepositioned assets was 703.2m 2017: 84.1m.
PAGE 176 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Contractual cash flows The total undiscounted amounts, inclusive of estimated interest, which would be payable in respect of the non-securitisation borrowings of the Group and the Company, should those balances remain outstanding until the contracted repayment date, or the earliest date on which repayment can be required, are set out below.
Contingent Corporate Retail Central bank Total consideration bonds bonds facilities m m m m m a The Group 30 September 2018 Payable in less than one year 2.5 10.9 18.0 87.3 118.7 Payable in one to two years 5.7 10.9 18.0 10.0 44.6 Payable in two to five years 18.9 32.6 217.6 958.3 1,227.4 Payable in over five years - 182.6 119.3 - 301.9 27.1 237.0 372.9 1,055.6 1,692.6 30 September 2017 Payable in less than one year 2.5 10.9 18.0 2.1 33.5 Payable in one to two years 3.5 10.9 18.0 4.8 37.2 Payable in two to five years 8.1 32.6 228.9 712.6 982.2 Payable in over five years - 193.5 126.0 - 319.5 14.1 247.9 390.9 719.5 1,372.4 Corporate Retail Total bonds bonds m m m b The Company 30 September 2018 Payable in less than one year 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in one to two years 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in two to five years 32.6 217.6 250.2 Payable in over five years 182.6 119.3 301.9 237.0 372.9 609.9 30 September 2017 Payable in less than one year 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in one to two years 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in two to five years 32.6 228.9 261.5 Payable in over five years 193.5 126.0 319.5 247.9 390.9 638.8 Amounts payable in respect of the other accruals and trade creditors shown in note 52 fall due within one year.
The cash flows described above will include those for interest on borrowings accrued at 30 September 2018 disclosed in note 52.
PAGE 177 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The cash flows which are expected to arise from derivative contracts in place at the year end, estimating future floating rate payments and receipts on the basis of the yield curve at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2018 2017 Total cash Total cash outflow inflow outflow inflow m m On derivative liabilities Payable in less than one year 1.9 2.0 Payable in one to two years 4.7 1.7 Payable in two to five years 22.6 10.9 Payable in over five years 0.4 0.2 25.0 10.8 On derivative assets Payable in less than one year 4.3 3.9 Payable in one to two years 1.2 2.3 Payable in two to five years 0.2 0.7 Payable in over five years - - 5.3 6.9 19.7 3.9 11.
INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the current or prospective risk to capital or earnings arising from adverse movements in interest rates.
The Groups exposure to this risk is a natural consequence of its lending, deposit taking and other borrowing activities, as some of its financial assets and liabilities bear interest at rates which float with various market rates while others are fixed, either for a term or for their whole lives.
Such risk is referred to as Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book IRRBB.
The Group does not seek to generate income from taking interest rate risk and aims to minimise exposures that occur as a natural consequence of carrying out its normal business activities.
The Groups risk management framework for IRRBB continues to evolve in line with updates in regulatory guidance on methods expected to be used by banks measuring, managing, monitoring and controlling such risks.
The Group will continue to develop these processes as interpretation of these standards becomes clearer as they become more widely implemented.
IRRBB is managed through Board approved risk appetite limits and policies.
The Group seeks to match the structure of assets and liabilities naturally where possible or by using appropriate financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps.
Day to day management of interest rate risk is the responsibility of the Groups Treasury function, with control and oversight provided by ALCO.
IRRBB exposures Risk exposure in the Groups operations might occur through: Gap or re-pricing risk.
The risk created when interest rates on assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items reprice at different times causing them to move by different amounts Basis risk.
The risk arising where assets and liabilities re-price with reference to different reference interest rates, for example Bank of England base rate and LIBOR.
Relative changes in the difference between the reference rates over time may impact earnings Option or prepayment risk.
The risk that settlement of asset and liability balances at different times from those forecast due to economic conditions or customer behaviour may create a mismatch in future periods Due to the maturity transformation inherent in the Groups business model it is also exposed to the risk that the relationship between the rates affecting the shorter term funding balance and the rates affecting the longer term lending balance will have altered when the funding has to be refinanced.
The Group measures these risks through a combination of economic value and earnings-based measures considering prepayment risk: Economic Value of Equity EVE a range of parallel and non-parallel interest rate stresses are applied to assess the change in market value from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items re-pricing at different times Net Interest Income NII - impact on earnings from a range of interest rate stresses PAGE 178 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts In July 2017 the FCA announced that it was its intention that by the end of 2021 the LIBOR reference rate would have been superseded and therefore, it would no longer be necessary for it to compel banks to make submissions to the LIBOR setting process after that point.
A clear consensus has yet to emerge on how the transition from LIBOR and other Interbank Offered Rates to alternative benchmarks will be managed across the banking industry.
LIBOR is used in setting interest rates on significant amounts of the Groups loan assets and borrowings and the Group has established an internal working group to identify the impact on the business and ensure a consistent approach is taken to its transition from LIBOR to other reference rates.
The Groups use of financial derivatives for hedging interest rate risk is discussed further in note 40.
Interest rate sensitivity To provide a broad indication of the Groups exposure to interest rate movements, the notional impact of a 1.0% change in UK interest rates on the equity of the Group at 30 September 2018, and the notional annualised impact of such a change on the operating profit of the Group, based on the year-end balance sheet have been calculated.
As a simplification this calculation assumes that all relevant UK interest rates move by the same amount in parallel and that all repricing takes place at the balance sheet date.
On this basis, a 1.0% increase in UK interest rates would reduce the Groups equity at 30 September 2018 by 1.7m 2017: 2.1m and increase profit before tax by 10.5m 2017: increase by 12.3m.
This calculation allows only for the direct effects of any change in UK interest rates.
In practice such a change might have wider economic consequences which would themselves potentially affect the Groups business and results.
Although certain of the Groups borrowings have interest rates dependent on US Dollar and Euro LIBOR rates, the effect of the cross-currency basis swaps is such that the Groups results have no material exposure to movements in these rates.
The effects of independent 1.0% increases in US or Euro interest rates would be to increase the Groups equity by 0.6m 2017: 0.3m and 1.4m 2017: 1.9m respectively, however, in reality these movements would be mitigated by movements in UK interest rates and exchange rates.
It should be noted that these sensitivities are illustrative only, and much simplified from those used to manage IRRBB in practice.
The Company All the borrowings of the Company have fixed interest rates.
Its assets and liabilities with other group companies bear interest at floating rates based on LIBOR which reset within three months of the balance sheet date: all other balances in the Company balance sheet are non-interest bearing.
CURRENCY RISK The Group has no appetite for material amounts of exposure to foreign currency movements and applies a hedging strategy for any material open positions through the use of spot or forward contracts or derivatives.
All of the Groups significant assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling with the exception of the asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros, which are described in note 47.
Although IAS 39 requires that they be accounted for as currency liabilities and valued at their spot rates, a condition of the issue of these notes was that bespoke interest rate and currency swaps cross-currency basis swaps were put in place for the duration of the borrowing, having the effect of converting the liability to a LIBOR linked floating rate sterling borrowing eliminating currency risk for these exposures.
The equivalent sterling principal amounts of notes in issue under the arrangements described above, and their carrying values at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 are set out below: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Equivalent Carrying Equivalent Carrying sterling principal value sterling principal value m m m m US dollar notes 897.3 1,321.8 974.7 1,395.9 Euro notes 1,320.5 1,724.5 1,652.7 2,127.3 2,217.8 3,046.3 2,627.4 3,523.2 The asset finance business has a limited amount of lending denominated in US dollars and may contract to purchase assets for leasing in currency.
These balances are hedged by the purchase of currency derivatives and or appropriate currency balances.
As a result of these arrangements the Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risk, and no sensitivity analysis is presented for currency risk.
The Groups use of financial derivatives to manage currency risk is described further in note 40.
None of the assets or liabilities of the Company are denominated in foreign currencies.
PAGE 179 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 13.
ACQUISITIONS The Group acquired two businesses in the year ended 30 September 2018.
Iceberg was acquired during December 2017 and Titlestone was acquired on 3 July 2018.
The disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of these acquisitions are given in notes 14 and 15.
Amounts shown in other notes in respect of these acquisitions are analysed as shown below.
Note Iceberg Titlestone Total Note 14 Note 15 m m m 43 Goodwill arising on acquisition 16.5 47.6 64.1 Intangible assets acquired 43 0.1 1.3 1.4 Property, plant and machinery acquired 42 - - - Loans to customers acquired 35 2.0 227.4 229.4 55 Deferred tax balances at acquisition - 0.3 0.3 62 Cash flows on acquisition 6.8 274.2 281.0 Acquisition related costs 0.2 2.0 2.2 Had both acquisitions taken place on 1 October 2017, the consolidated revenue of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2018 would have been 530.4m and its consolidated profit before tax for the period would have been 193.4m.
ACQUISITION OF ICEBERG On 13 December 2017 the Group acquired the trade and assets of The Iceberg Partnerships LLP and on 20 December 2017 it acquired the trade and assets of Iceberg Client Credit LLP.
These entities together Iceberg were related to each other.
Iceberg is a finance broker and lender dealing with specialist business lending to mid-sized UK law firms and similar concerns.
The acquisition allows the Group to increase the reach of its commercial finance operations to new products and customer groups.
The consideration for the acquisition will be satisfied entirely in cash.
Cash transferred on completion was 6.6m, with a further payment made, following the agreement of completion accounts, of 0.2m.
Further contingent consideration, of between nil and 13.0m, is payable in cash based on volumes and pricing of lending generated by the acquired business over a five year period.
11.8m has been provided in the accounts in respect of this contingent consideration, based on the net present value of the maximum amount.
This is considered to be the fair value of the consideration at the transaction date, based on initial forecasts for the business.
Transaction costs of 0.2m have been included in operating expenses for the year ended 30 September 2018.
The post-acquisition contribution of Iceberg to consolidated revenue for the year ended 30 September 2018 was 1.8m and its contribution to consolidated profit before tax for the period was 0.1m.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated accounts on acquisition in respect of the identifiable assets acquired are set out below.
The amounts presented are considered to be materially consistent with the existing accounting policies of the Group.
The Group has yet to finalise its exercise to determine these balances and therefore the amounts presented in this note should be considered as provisional.
Final amounts will be presented with the Groups annual results for the year ending 30 September 2019.
Note m Assets Loans to customers a 2.0 b Intangible assets 0.1 Total net identifiable assets 2.1 Goodwill c 16.5 d Consideration 18.6 PAGE 180 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts a Loans to customers The financial assets acquired comprised loans to individuals in advance of amounts which become payable in respect of probate and matrimonial legal processes.
Their fair value was 2.0m, the gross contractual value was 2.1m and the contractual flows not to be collected were 0.1m.
b Intangible assets Identifiable intangible assets acquired represent broker networks and trading arrangements.
They will be amortised over a ten year period.
c Goodwill The goodwill of 16.5m arising from the acquisition consists of the values of the business relationships, market positions and knowledge base inherent in the business which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
These will be utilised in the future development of the acquired business and in expanding the Groups asset finance activities.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill has been allocated to the asset finance cash generating unit CGU for impairment testing purposes as its activities have become part of the activities of the wider asset finance business.
The Groups review of the valuation of the goodwill included in this CGU for the purpose of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is described in note 44. d Consideration The total consideration accounted for on acquisition was: Total m Consideration paid on completion 6.6 Consideration paid on agreement of completion accounts 0.2 Contingent consideration 11.8 Total consideration 18.6 15.
ACQUISITION OF TITLESTONE On 3 July 2018 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Titlestone Property Finance Limited TPF, together with a portfolio of loans held by companies related to it, together Titlestone.
Titlestone is a development finance business, active in similar markets to the Groups own development finance operation, and its acquisition allows the Group to increase the reach of its proposition and to reach a more economic scale more rapidly than would be possible through organic growth alone.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting interests in TPF and the consideration for the shares and the loan portfolio was satisfied entirely in cash.
Cash transferred on completion was 274.3m and there are no deferred or contingent consideration arrangements.
Transaction costs of 1.1m have been included in operating expenses for the year ended 30 September 2018.
The contribution of Titlestone to consolidated revenue for the year ended 30 September 2018 was 6.6m and its contribution to consolidated profit before tax for the period is set out below.
m m Contribution to consolidated profit excluding costs of acquisition 3.8 Transaction costs 1.1 Other acquisition related expenses 0.9 Total costs of acquisition 2.0 Contribution to consolidated profit after costs of acquisition 1.8 PAGE 181 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The amounts recognised in the consolidated accounts on acquisition in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are set out below.
Note m m Cash c 0.1 a Loans to customers 227.4 Sundry assets 0.2 Intangible assets b 1.3 Total assets 229.0 Sundry liabilities 2.0 Deferred tax 0.3 Total liabilities 2.3 Total net identifiable assets 226.7 Goodwill d 47.6 c Consideration 274.3 a Loans to customers The financial assets acquired at 3 July 2018 comprised development finance loans.
Their fair value was 227.4m, the gross contractual value was 231.0m and the total value expected not to be collected was 5.9m.
c Cashflow on acquisition m Net cashflow on acquisition were Payment for shares 46.7 Payments for loans 227.6 Total payments on completion 274.3 Cash 0.1 Net cash outflow 274.2 The fair value and the gross contractual value of the cash balances acquired were equal to their book value.
There are no contractual cash flows which are expected not to be collectible.
d Goodwill The goodwill of 47.6m arising from the acquisition consists of the values of the business relationships, market positions and knowledge base inherent in the business which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
These will be utilised in the future development of the Groups development finance operations, with which the acquired activities are being merged.
The acquired goodwill has been allocated to a CGU including both the acquired operations and the Groups organically generated development finance business with which it has been merged.
The Groups review of the goodwill arising in this transaction for the purposes of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is described in note 44.
PAGE 182 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 16.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Group analyses its operations, both for internal management reporting and external financial reporting, on the basis of the markets from which its assets are generated.
The segments used are described below: Mortgages, including the Groups buy-to-let, and owner-occupied first and second charge lending and related activities Commercial Lending, including the Groups motor finance and other equipment leasing activities, together with development finance and other offerings targeted towards SME customers Idem Capital, including loan assets acquired from third parties and legacy assets which share certain credit characteristics with them Dedicated financing and administration costs of each of these businesses are allocated to the segment.
Shared central costs are not allocated between segments, nor is income from central cash balances or the carrying costs of unallocated savings balances.
Loans to customers and operating lease assets are allocated to segments as are dedicated securitisation funding arrangements and their related cross-currency basis swaps and cash balances.
Retail deposits and their related costs are allocated to the segments based on the utilisation of those deposits.
Retail deposits raised in advance of lending are not allocated.
Other assets and liabilities are not allocated between segments.
The costs arising in the year ended 30 September 2018 from the Iceberg and Titlestone acquisitions of 2.2m have not been allocated as they are not directly related to customer facing activity, nor has the gain relating to the sale of financial assets.
All of the Groups operations are conducted in the UK, all revenues arise from external customers and there are no inter-segment revenues.
No customer contributes more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
Financial information about these business segments, prepared on the same basis as used in the consolidated accounts of the Group, is shown below.
Year ended 30 September 2018 Mortgages Commercial Idem Unallocated Total Lending Capital items Segments m m m m m Interest receivable 299.1 50.1 97.9 4.8 451.9 Interest payable 141.5 17.9 10.1 27.8 197.3 Net interest income 157.6 32.2 87.8 23.0 254.6 Other operating income 7.6 10.9 0.7 28.1 47.3 Total operating income 165.2 43.1 88.5 5.1 301.9 Direct costs 14.9 21.2 10.4 67.7 114.2 Provisions for losses 5.5 2.0 0.1 - 7.4 144.8 19.9 78.2 62.6 180.3 Year ended 30 September 2017 Mortgages Commercial Idem Unallocated Total Lending Capital items Segments m m m m m Interest receivable 274.7 33.8 98.9 1.8 409.2 Interest payable 123.6 10.6 11.4 31.0 176.6 Net interest income 151.1 23.2 87.5 29.2 232.6 Other operating income 9.6 9.9 0.7 - 20.2 Total operating income 160.7 33.1 88.2 29.2 252.8 Direct costs 13.7 18.9 10.8 58.9 102.3 Provisions for losses 3.7 0.1 1.5 - 5.3 143.3 14.1 75.9 88.1 145.2 PAGE 183 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The segmental profits disclosed above reconcile to the group results as shown below.
2018 2017 m m Results shown above 180.3 145.2 Fair value items 1.2 0.4 Operating profit 181.5 144.8 The assets and liabilities attributable to each of the segments at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 on the basis described above were: Note Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital Segments m m m m 30 September 2018 Segment assets 35 Loans to customers 10,473.5 1,133.2 521.1 12,127.8 42 Operating lease assets - 35.4 - 35.4 Cross-currency basis swaps 40 829.7 - - 829.7 Securitisation cash 33 319.0 - 19.8 338.8 11,622.2 1,168.6 540.9 13,331.7 Segment liabilities Allocated deposits 4,702.4 1,443.5 411.0 6,556.9 Securitisation funding 6,457.2 - 33.1 6,490.3 11,159.6 1,443.5 444.1 13,047.2 Note Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital Segments m m m m 30 September 2017 Segment assets 35 Loans to customers 9,953.9 558.8 611.4 11,124.1 42 Operating lease assets - 23.4 - 23.4 Cross currency basis swaps 40 896.3 - - 896.3 Securitisation cash 33 543.0 - 31.0 574.0 11,393.2 582.2 642.4 12,617.8 Segment liabilities Allocated deposits 3,401.2 686.9 249.8 4,337.9 Securitisation funding 7,597.1 - 184.7 7,781.8 10,998.3 686.9 434.5 12,119.7 An analysis of the Groups financial assets by type and segment is shown in note 35.
All of the assets shown above were located in the UK.
The additions to non-current assets, excluding financial assets, in the year which are included in segmental assets above are investments of 19.3m 2017: 12.9m in assets held for leasing under operating leases, included in the Commercial Lending segment.
No other fixed asset additions were allocated to segments.
PAGE 184 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The segmental assets and liabilities may be reconciled to the consolidated balance sheet as shown below.
2018 2017 m m Total segment assets 13,331.7 12,617.8 Unallocated assets Central cash and investments 971.8 922.9 Unallocated derivatives 26.0 10.3 Operational property, plant and equipment 21.4 22.8 Intangible assets 169.3 104.4 Other 5.1 4.0 Total assets 14,515.1 13,682.2 Total segment liabilities 13,047.2 12,119.7 Unallocated liabilities Unallocated retail deposits 1,260.3 722.5 Derivative financial instruments 4.7 7.1 Central bank borrowings 1,470.9 1,145.4 Tax liabilities 27.0 22.2 Retirement benefit obligations 19.5 29.8 Other 110.2 71.1 Total liabilities 13,419.2 12,672.8 17.
REVENUE Note 2018 2017 m m Interest receivable 18 451.9 409.2 Operating lease income 20 16.3 14.4 Gain on disposal of financial assets 21 28.0 - Other income 22 15.5 17.2 Total revenue 511.7 440.8 Arising from: Mortgages 306.7 284.3 Commercial Lending 73.5 55.1 Idem Capital 98.6 99.6 Total revenue from segments 478.8 439.0 Unallocated revenue 32.9 1.8 Total revenue 511.7 440.8 PAGE 185 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 18.
INTEREST RECEIVABLE 2018 2017 m m Interest receivable in respect of Loans and receivables 408.9 375.1 Finance leases 34.4 28.8 Factoring income 2.2 2.2 Interest on loans to customers 445.5 406.1 Other interest receivable 6.4 3.1 Total interest on financial assets 451.9 409.2 Interest on loans to customers includes 2.3m 2017: 3.9m charged on accounts where an impairment provision has been made.
INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES Note 2018 2017 m m On retail deposits 83.1 47.9 On asset backed loan notes 60.3 70.2 On bank loans and overdrafts 16.5 22.7 On corporate bonds 10.9 13.1 On retail bonds 18.6 18.6 On central bank facilities 5.2 1.1 Total interest on financial liabilities 194.6 173.6 On pension scheme deficit 56 0.8 1.3 Discounting on contingent consideration 52 0.5 0.3 Other finance costs 1.4 1.4 197.3 176.6 20.
NET OPERATING LEASE INCOME Note 2018 2017 m m Income Operating lease rentals 11.4 9.7 Maintenance income 4.9 4.7 Total operating lease income 16.3 14.4 Costs 42 Depreciation of lease assets 5.9 4.4 24 Maintenance salaries 1.5 1.7 Other maintenance costs 5.1 5.3 Total operating lease costs 12.5 11.4 Net operating lease income 3.8 3.0 PAGE 186 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 21.
GAIN ON DISPOSAL OF FINANCIAL ASSETS During the year, the Group realised a gain of 28.0m on the disposal of second charge mortgages and unsecured consumer loans held in its Idem Capital division.
The loans were originally acquired from various third parties as part of a number of portfolio purchases over time.
As a consequence of this transaction, facility break costs of 1.2m were incurred.
These have been included within interest payable on asset backed loan notes.
OTHER INCOME 2018 2017 m m Loan account fee income 9.0 9.0 Broker commissions 2.1 3.6 Third party servicing 3.4 3.3 Other income 1.0 1.3 15.5 17.2 23.
OPERATING EXPENSES Note 2018 2017 m m 24 Employment costs 73.3 64.3 27 Auditor remuneration 1.6 1.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 43 2.1 1.6 Depreciation of operational assets 42 1.9 1.9 Operating lease rentals payable 65 2.2 2.6 Other administrative costs 33.1 30.8 114.2 102.3 PAGE 187 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 24.
EMPLOYEES The average number of persons including directors employed by the Group during the year was 1,349 2017: 1,317.
The number of employees at the end of the year was 1,367 2017: 1,344.
Costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were: 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Share based remuneration 6.1 4.2 Other wages and salaries 57.2 51.4 Total wages and salaries 63.3 55.6 National Insurance on share based remuneration 1.2 1.0 Other social security costs 6.6 5.1 Total social security costs 7.8 6.1 Defined benefit pension cost 1.8 2.4 Other pension costs 1.9 1.9 Total pension costs 3.7 4.3 Total employment costs 74.8 66.0 Of which Included in operating expenses note 23 73.3 64.3 Included in maintenance costs note 20 1.5 1.7 74.8 66.0 Details of the pension schemes operated by the Group are given in note 56.
The Company has no employees.
Details of the directors remuneration are given in note 25.
KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group and the Company, is set out below in aggregate in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Transactions.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration in Section B5.2.
2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Salaries and fees 1.9 1.6 Cash amount of bonus 1.5 1.4 Social security costs 0.5 0.6 Short-term employee benefits 3.9 3.6 Post-employment benefits 0.5 1.4 IFRS 2 cost in respect of directors 2.2 1.9 National Insurance thereon 0.5 0.4 Share based payment 2.7 2.3 7.1 7.3 Post-employment benefits shown above are shown as pension allowance in Section B5.2.
Costs in respect of share awards shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration are determined on a different basis to the IFRS 2 charge shown above.
Social security costs paid in respect of directors are required to be included in this note by IAS 24, but do not fall within the scope of the disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report.
PAGE 188 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 26.
SHARE BASED REMUNERATION During the year, the Group had various share based payment arrangements with employees.
They are accounted for by the Group and the Company as shown below.
The effect of the share based payment arrangements on the Groups profit is shown in note 24.
Further details of share based payment arrangements are given in the Annual Report on Remuneration in Section B5.2.
A summary of the number of share awards outstanding under each scheme at 30 September 2018 and at 30 September 2017 is set out below.
Number Number 2018 2017 a Sharesave Plan 3,265,788 3,113,587 b Performance Share Plan 4,297,809 5,103,963 c Company Share Option Plan 549,061 390,746 d Deferred Bonus Plan 496,762 445,252 e Restricted Stock Units 82,787 60,115 8,692,207 9,113,663 a Sharesave plan The Group operates an All Employee Share Option Sharesave plan.
Grants under this scheme vest, in the normal course, after the completion of the appropriate service period and subject to a savings requirement.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of Sharesave options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 is shown below.
The weighted average market price at exercise for share options exercised in the year was 492.50p 2017: 414.02p.
In such cases the exercise period would be deferred for an equivalent period of time and therefore options might be exercised later than the date shown above.
In the event of the death or redundancy of the employee options may be exercised early and the exercise period may also start or end later than stated above options may be exercised up to twelve months after the decease of the holder.
The fair value of options granted is determined using a trinomial model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017, are shown below.
Grant date 31 07 18 31 07 18 28 07 17 28 07 17 Number of awards granted 401,099 63,013 628,762 61,778 Market price at date of grant 498.0p 498.0p 428.5p 428.5p Contractual life years 3.5 5.5 3.5 5.5 Fair value per share at date of grant 1.00 0.91 0.88 0.81 Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 28.39% 26.47% 28.49% 27.47% Expected life at grant date years 3.45 5.44 3.45 5.44 Risk-free interest rate 1.23% 1.39% 0.67% 0.88% Expected dividend yield 3.31% 3.31% 3.24% 3.24% Expected annual departures 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% The expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value for the three-year schemes is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
The five-year schemes use share price data for the preceding five years.
b Paragon Performance Share Plan PSP Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting, to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The awards will lapse to the extent that the performance condition has not been satisfied on the third anniversary.
Awards are exercisable from the date on which the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied to the day before the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Clawback provisions apply to awards granted under the PSP as detailed in the remuneration policy.
50% of these awards were subject to a TSR test and 50% were subject to an EPS test.
The TSR test compared the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250.
25% of the TSR-tested awards vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The EPS test provided that 25% of EPS tested awards would vest where EPS growth was equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 3%, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 7% or more.
For both tests the testing period was the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test as described above, except that full vesting of the EPS-tested awards takes place where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 13% or more.
PAGE 190 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 25% are subject to an EPS test as described at above, except that the comparator group for the TSR test is limited to a group of listed UK financial service entities rather than the entire FTSE-250.
This group is determined at the point of grant.
25% of these awards are subject to risk performance conditions which take in to account factors deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee, who will ultimately decide the extent to which the risk condition has been satisfied.
Once the outcomes of these tests have been determined, the gross number of awards vesting will be reduced so that the gain to the recipient from the PSP and the CSOP described below is equal to the gain from the gross PSP vesting.
The fair value of awards granted under the PSP is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market based condition.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 are shown below: Grant date 08 12 17 01 12 16 Number of awards granted 1,177,290 1,390,371 Market price at date of grant 483.20p 369.40p Fair value per share at date of grant 338.66p 245.73p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 28.25% 29.55% Risk-free interest rate 0.94% 0.76% Expected dividend yield 3.25% 3.65% For all of the above grants the contractual life and expected life at grant date is three years and no departures are expected.
The expected volatility for awards granted after 30 September 2008 is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
The effect of the CSOPs is not allowed for in the IFRS 2 market values of the 2016 and 2017 grants.
c Company Share Option Plan CSOP The PSP includes a tax advantaged element under which CSOP options can be granted.
The CSOPs may be exercised alongside their accompanying PSPs based upon the exercise price that was set at the grant date.
Each member of staff may be granted up to a maximum total value of 30,000 of tax benefitted options.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of CSOP options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 is shown below.
These tests operate in the same manner and with the same conditions as those for the PSP grant of the same date.
PAGE 191 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts To the extent that the CSOP awards vest, the vesting of the PSP award granted at the same time will be abated so that the overall gain to the grantee is the same as would be received on the related PSP award had the CSOP not been in place.
No separate fair value has been attributed to the CSOP options for IFRS 2 purposes as the IFRS 2 market values for the CSOP and PSP combined will equate to that calculated for the PSP without allowing for the CSOP.
The benefit from the CSOP is in relation to the employees tax position, which does not affect the IFRS 2 charge.
d Deferred Bonus awards Awards under these plans comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment.
The Deferred Bonus shares granted in December 2016 and December 2017 accrue dividends only over the vesting period unlike earlier grants which accrued dividends until the point of exercise.
The fair value of Deferred Bonus awards issued in the year was determined using a BlackScholes Merton model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 are shown below.
Grant date 08 12 17 01 12 16 Number of awards granted 102,516 105,318 Market price at date of grant 483.2p 369.4p Fair value per share at date of grant 483.2p 369.4p e Restricted Stock Units RSUs Since 2016, the Company has permitted certain employees to elect to receive RSU awards instead of PSP awards.
RSU awards have vesting conditions based upon the grantees personal performance including a risk element rather than conditions in the wider business.
These conditions are determined to be met to the extent to which the Remuneration Committee deems that to be the case.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 were: Grant date Period exercisable Number Number 2018 2017 01 12 2016 01 12 2019 to 30 11 2026 60,115 60,115 08 12 2017 08 12 2020 to 07 12 2027 22,672 - 82,787 60,115 The fair value of RSU awards issued in the year was determined using a Black-Scholes Merton model.
Grant date 08 12 17 01 12 16 Number of awards granted 22,672 60,115 Market price at date of grant 483.2p 369.4p Fair value per share at date of grant 483.2p 369.4p PAGE 192 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 27.
AUDITOR REMUNERATION The analysis of fees payable to the Companys auditors KPMG LLP and their associates, excluding irrecoverable VAT, required by the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Regulations 2008 is set out below.
This analysis includes amounts charged to the profit and loss account or included within the issue costs of debt in respect of fees paid to the Group auditors and their associates.
2018 2017 000 000 Audit fee of the company 445 142 Other services Audit of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 716 703 Total audit fees 1,161 845 Audit related assurance services Interim review 62 60 Other 20 - Other assurance services 68 - Other services - 52 Total fees 1,311 957 Irrecoverable VAT 262 191 Total cost to the Group 1,573 1,148 Of which: Charged to profit and loss account note 23 1,573 1,121 Included in issue costs of debt - 27 Total cost to the Group 1,573 1,148 Fees paid to the auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed because the consolidated accounts of the Group are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 2018 2017 m m Impairment of financial assets note 38 First mortgage loans 5.5 3.7 Second charge mortgage loans 0.5 0.4 Finance lease receivables 1.8 - Development finance loans - - Other loans 0.6 1.2 7.4 5.3 PAGE 193 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 29.
FAIR VALUE NET GAINS LOSSES 2018 2017 m m Net profit on derivatives designated as fair value hedges 15.5 14.6 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 17.4 13.2 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 1.9 1.4 Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges - - Net gains losses on other derivatives 3.1 1.8 1.2 0.4 The fair value net gain loss represents the accounting volatility on derivative instruments which are matching risk exposure on an economic basis generated by the requirements of IAS 39.
Some accounting volatility arises on these items due to accounting ineffectiveness on designated hedges, or because hedge accounting has not been adopted or is not achievable on certain items.
The losses and gains are primarily due to timing differences in income recognition between the derivative instruments and the economically hedged assets and liabilities.
Such differences will reverse over time and have no impact on the cash flows of the Group.
Foreign exchange gains of 67.6m note 61 on asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros 2017: gains of 468.9m have been offset against the movements on the cross-currency basis swaps used to hedge these liabilities as part of the cash flow hedge accounting treatment applied.
TAX CHARGE ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES a Analysis of charge in the year 2018 2017 m m Current tax UK Corporation Tax on profits of the period 38.0 31.7 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.1 1.3 Total current tax 36.9 30.4 Deferred tax 1.2 2.8 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 35.7 27.6 During the year ended 30 September 2015 the UK Government substantively enacted provisions reducing the rate of corporation tax from 20.0% to 19.0% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18.0% from 1 April 2020.
The tax rate applying from 1 April 2020 was further reduced to 17.0% during the year ended 30 September 2016.
Therefore, the standard rate of corporation tax applicable to the Group for the year ended 30 September 2017 was 19.5%, the rate in the year ended 30 September 2018 was 19.0%, the rate in the year ending 30 September 2019 is expected to be 19.0%, the rate in the year ending 30 September 2020 is expected to be 18.0% and the rate in subsequent years is expected to be 17.0%.
The Bank Corporation Tax Surcharge was introduced with effect from 1 January 2016.
This subjects any taxable profits arising in the Groups banking subsidiary, Paragon Bank PLC and no other Group entity to an additional 8.0% of tax to the extent these profits exceed 25.0m.
The surcharge impacted the Group for the first time in the period and its effect is shown in note c below.
PAGE 194 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts b Deferred tax credit for the year The deferred tax credit in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2018 2017 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 0.9 0.4 Retirement benefit obligations 0.3 0.1 Impairment and other provisions 0.8 1.5 Utilisation of tax losses - - Other timing differences 0.7 1.5 Deferred tax credit for the year 2.1 3.3 Prior period adjustment 0.9 0.5 Change in tax rate - - Deferred tax credit note 55 1.2 2.8 The expected impact on deferred tax balances of the changes in the rate of Corporation Tax to 19.0% and 17.0% described above was accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2016. c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The Group operates wholly in the UK and all but a nominal amount of the Groups income arises in UK resident companies.
Consequently, it is appropriate to use the prevailing UK corporation tax rate as the comparator to the effective tax rate.
As noted in b above, the UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Group for the year was 19.0% 2017: 19.5%.
2018 2017 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 181.5 144.8 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax 34.5 28.2 Effects of: Permanent differences - Disallowable acquisition costs 0.3 - - Income from structured entities 0.6 0.7 - Recurring disallowable expenditure and similar items 0.1 0.3 Mismatch in timing differences 0.5 0.6 Change in rate of taxation on deferred tax assets and liabilities - - Bank Corporation Tax Surcharge 1.1 - Prior year credit 0.2 0.8 Tax charge for the year 35.7 27.6 The income from the Groups investment in structured entities is recognised in the income statement net of taxes incurred by the structured entities and consequently appears as a reconciling item in the tax charge.
The timing difference mismatch arises because tax relief for share based payments is given on a different basis from that on which the accounting charge for the provision of these awards is recognised under IFRS 2. d Factors affecting future tax charges As practically all of the Groups profit is subject to UK corporation tax the effective tax rate is expected to fall in line with the reductions in the standard rate described above.
The Group includes a leasing business in PAF.
Whilst such businesses do not, in general, have significant permanent differences, the taxable profits in a given accounting period are usually significantly different from the accounting profits due to temporary differences.
Consequently, the operation will have no material impact on the effective tax rate, but may have on the Groups tax payments.
As a wholly UK based business the Group does not expect to be significantly impacted by the OECD project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS.
PAGE 195 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 31.
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC The Companys profit after tax for the financial year amounted to 43.0m 2017: 47.4m.
A separate income statement has not been prepared for the Company under the provisions of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has no other items of comprehensive income for the years ended 30 September 2018 or 30 September 2017.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per ordinary share is calculated as follows: 2018 2017 Profit for the year m 145.8 117.2 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 260.8 271.6 Dilutive effect of the weighted average number of share options and incentive plans in issue during the year million 8.4 8.0 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 269.2 279.6 Earnings per ordinary share - basic 55.9p 43.1p - diluted 54.2p 41.9p 33.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 2016 m m m Balances with central banks 895.9 615.0 315.0 Balances with other banks 414.7 881.9 922.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1,310.6 1,496.9 1,237.6 Only Free Cash is unrestrictedly available for the Groups general purposes.
Cash received in respect of loan assets funded through warehouse facilities and securitisations is not immediately available, due to the terms of those arrangements.
This cash is shown as securitisation cash below.
Balances with central banks form part of the liquidity buffer of Paragon Bank PLC and are therefore not available for the Groups general purposes.
Free cash may also be deposited at the Bank of England.
Cash held by the Trustee of the Groups employee share ownership plan may only be used to invest in the shares of the Company, pursuant to the aims of that plan.
This is shown as ESOP cash below.
The total consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents balance may be analysed as shown below: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Free cash 238.0 305.5 383.1 Securitisation cash 338.8 574.0 537.1 Liquidity buffer 724.9 615.0 315.0 ESOP cash 8.9 2.4 2.4 1,310.6 1,496.9 1,237.6 The Cash and Cash Equivalents amount of 24.9m 2017: 277.6m: 2016: 361.3m shown in the Company balance sheet is included in Free Cash.
Cash and Cash Equivalents includes current bank balances, money market placements and fixed rate sterling term deposits with London banks, and balances with the Bank of England.
PAGE 196 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 34.
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS This amount represents fixed rate securities issued by the UK Government for which a liquid market exists and which are held from time to time, as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and consequently shown at fair value which corresponds to their market value.
No such securities were held at either 30 September 2018 or 30 September 2017, but the Group held this type of investment during the year.
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS Note 2018 2017 2016 m m m Loans and receivables 36 11,407.4 10,636.1 10,391.8 37 Finance lease receivables 720.4 488.0 345.7 Loans to customers 12,127.8 11,124.1 10,737.5 Fair value adjustments from portfolio hedging 39 24.1 8.7 12.5 12,103.7 11,115.4 10,750.0 The movements in the Groups investment in loans to customers in the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 were: 2018 2017 m m Cost At 1 October 2017 11,124.1 10,737.5 Acquisitions note 13 229.4 - Additions 2,455.1 1,965.9 Disposals 62.2 18.5 Effective Interest Rate EIR adjustments 108.1 85.5 Other debits 323.0 298.5 Provision charge note 38 7.4 5.3 Repayments and redemptions 2,042.3 1,939.5 At 30 September 2018 12,127.8 11,124.1 Other debits includes primarily interest and fees charged to customers on loans outstanding.
PAGE 197 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Groups loan assets at 30 September 2018, analysed between the segments described in note 16 are as follows: Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital m m m m At 30 September 2018 First mortgages 10,332.2 - - 10,332.2 Consumer loans 141.3 - 448.3 589.6 Motor finance - 256.6 72.8 329.4 Asset finance - 403.4 - 403.4 Development finance - 352.8 - 352.8 Other loans - 120.4 - 120.4 Loans to customers 10,473.5 1,133.2 521.1 12,127.8 At 30 September 2017 First mortgages 9,855.5 - - 9,855.5 Consumer loans 98.4 - 611.4 709.8 Motor finance - 163.0 - 163.0 Asset finance - 325.0 - 325.0 Development finance - 42.3 - 42.3 Other loans - 28.5 - 28.5 Loans to customers 9,953.9 558.8 611.4 11,124.1 The Groups purchased loan portfolios include 11.7m of first mortgages in the Mortgages segment 2017: 12.6m, and 352.5m of consumer loans and 72.8m of motor finance loans in the Idem Capital segment 2017: 490.9m and nil.
Information on the ERCs for first mortgages and consumer loans is given in note 9.
All other loans above are internally generated or arise from acquired operations.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables at 30 September 2018, 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016, which are all denominated and payable in sterling, were: 2018 2017 2016 m m m First mortgage loans 10,332.2 9,855.5 9,640.6 Second charge mortgage loans 415.9 490.7 526.8 Other unsecured consumer loans 173.7 219.1 195.1 Development finance loans 352.8 42.3 9.1 Other secured commercial lending 72.9 17.5 15.0 Other commercial loans 59.9 11.0 5.2 11,407.4 10,636.1 10,391.8 First mortgage loans have a contractual term of up to thirty years, second charge mortgage loans up to twenty five years and other unsecured consumer loans up to ten years.
In all cases the borrower is entitled to settle the loan at any point and in most cases early settlement does take place.
All borrowers on these accounts are required to make monthly payments.
PAGE 198 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts First mortgages are secured on residential property within the UK: second charge mortgage loans enjoy second charges on residential property.
The estimated value of the security held against those loans above which are considered to be impaired or past due, representing, for each such account, the lesser of the outstanding balance on the loan and the estimated valuation of the property was: 2018 2017 m m First mortgage loans 23.1 22.4 Second charge mortgage loans 46.2 69.4 69.3 91.8 The development finance loans have an average term of 21 months 2017: 17 months.
Settlement of principal and accrued interest takes place once the development is sold or refinanced following its completion and the customer is not normally required to make payments during the term of the loan.
The loans are secured by a legal charge over the site and or property together with other charges and warranties related to the build.
Other secured commercial lending includes structured lending, aviation, mortgages and invoice factoring.
Other loans includes professions finance, discounted receivables and other short term commercial balances.
The amounts of the loan assets above pledged as collateral under the central bank facilities described in note 51 or under the external funding arrangements described in notes 47 and 48 are shown below.
The table also shows assets prepositioned with the Bank of England for use in future drawings.
First Consumer Other Total Mortgages Finance m m m m 30 September 2018 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 5,052.2 40.8 - 5,093.0 Warehouse facilities 1,030.2 - - 1,030.2 Central bank facilities 1,670.1 - - 1,670.1 Total pledged as collateral 7,752.5 40.8 - 7,793.3 Prepositioned with Bank of England 1,171.1 - - 1,171.1 Other assets not pledged as collateral 1,408.6 548.8 485.6 2,443.0 10,332.2 589.6 485.6 11,407.4 30 September 2017 In respect of: Asset backed loan notes 5,328.8 270.5 - 5,599.3 Warehouse facilities 1,449.3 - - 1,449.3 Central bank facilities 1,224.9 - - 1,224.9 Total pledged as collateral 8,003.0 270.5 - 8,273.5 Prepositioned with Bank of England 122.1 - - 122.1 Other assets not pledged as collateral 1,730.4 439.3 70.8 2,240.5 9,855.5 709.8 70.8 10,636.1 PAGE 199 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 37.
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES The Groups finance lease receivables are motor finance and asset finance loans.
The average contractual life of the motor finance loans was 55 months 2017: 53 months while that of the asset finance loans was 52 months 2017: 42 months, but it is likely that a significant proportion of customers will choose to settle their obligations early.
The Groups finance leases can be analysed as shown below.
2018 2017 2016 m m m Motor finance 329.4 163.0 95.3 Asset finance 391.0 325.0 250.4 Carrying value 720.4 488.0 345.7 The minimum lease payments due under these loan agreements are: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 259.5 174.9 133.0 Within two to five years 530.2 357.6 255.8 After five years 30.9 17.8 7.6 820.6 550.3 396.4 Less: future finance income 95.2 58.3 47.7 Present value 725.4 492.0 348.7 The present values of those payments, net of provisions for impairment, carried in the accounts are: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 226.4 151.9 116.1 Within two to five years 471.7 323.8 225.8 After five years 27.3 16.3 6.8 Present value 725.4 492.0 348.7 Allowance for uncollectible amounts 5.0 4.0 3.0 Carrying value 720.4 488.0 345.7 Whilst on motor finance cases the Group has the benefit of the underlying vehicle as security on these loans, no account of this is taken in the allowance for uncollectible amounts shown above.
The Group has insufficient information on the current condition of finance leased vehicles to derive a reliable estimate of the value which could be realised from vehicles to offset against arrears accounts.
Accordingly, no such disclosure is provided.
For the Groups asset finance loans, estimated valuations of security assets for balances in arrears are undertaken as part of the credit management process.
These exercises suggest that the security value of assets under finance leases which are past due or impaired is 16.4m 2017: 12.2m.
None of the Groups finance lease receivables were pledged as collateral for liabilities at 30 September 2018 or 30 September 2017.
PAGE 200 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 38.
IMPAIRMENT PROVISIONS ON LOANS TO CUSTOMERS The following amounts in respect of impairment provisions, net of allowances for recoveries of written off assets, have been deducted from the appropriate assets in the balance sheet.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m At 1 October 2016 88.8 22.6 1.2 112.6 Amounts provided in the period 3.8 2.3 2.2 8.3 Amounts written off 3.5 6.6 0.2 10.3 At 30 September 2017 89.1 18.3 3.2 110.6 Amounts provided in the period 5.6 0.6 2.9 9.1 Amounts written off 3.7 7.6 1.0 12.3 At 30 September 2018 91.0 11.3 5.1 107.4 Of the above balances, the following provisions were held in respect of realised losses not charged off, which remain on the balance sheet and are provided for in full.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m At 30 September 2018 78.2 - 0.9 79.1 At 30 September 2017 76.4 0.3 0.3 77.0 The amounts charged to the profit and loss account, net of recoveries of previously provided amounts are set out below.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m Year ended 30 September 2018 Amounts provided in the year 5.6 0.6 2.9 9.1 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.1 0.5 1.1 1.7 Net impairment for year note 28 5.5 0.1 1.8 7.4 Year ended 30 September 2017 Amounts provided in the year 3.8 2.3 2.2 8.3 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.1 0.7 2.2 3.0 Net impairment for year note 28 3.7 1.6 - 5.3 39.
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS FROM PORTFOLIO HEDGING The Group applies fair value hedge accounting in respect of portfolios of loan assets note 35 and retail deposits note 46 where the appropriate criteria are met.
In these circumstances the change in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk is shown under this heading next to the carrying value of the hedged assets or liabilities in the appropriate note.
PAGE 201 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 40.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Use of derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes.
Such instruments are contracts with counterparties and are used only to reduce or eliminate the risk exposure of the Group.
No trading in derivative financial instruments is undertaken.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy not to trade in financial instruments, and hence all of the Groups derivative financial instruments are entered into for hedging purposes only.
These are used to protect the Group from exposures principally arising from fixed rate lending or borrowing and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Hedge accounting is applied where appropriate, though some derivatives, while forming part of an economic hedge relationship, do not qualify for this accounting treatment under the IAS 39 rules, while in other cases hedge accounting has not been adopted either because natural accounting offsets are expected or because complying with the IAS 39 hedge accounting rules would be particularly onerous.
The Group has designated a number of derivatives as fair value hedges for accounting purposes.
In particular this treatment is used for: a hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate prepayable loan assets with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis: and b hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate retail deposits with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis.
In both cases the Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with the economic hedging approach taken by the Group to these assets and liabilities.
As interest rate swaps are used to hedge pipeline loan exposures which are not yet recognised on the balance sheet an unmatched fair value cost or credit can arise until both sides of the hedge can be recognised within the interest rate portfolio hedging arrangement, generally a few months after the inception of the derivative contract.
The Groups securitisation borrowings are denominated in sterling, euros and US dollars.
All currency borrowings are swapped at inception using bespoke cross-currency basis swaps with principal amortisation and interest rates linked to the underlying borrowing.
The currency borrowings therefore have the effect of sterling borrowings.
These swaps provide an effective economic hedge against exchange rate and interest movements, but accounting standards require that they are carried at fair value leading, when exchange rates have moved significantly since the issue of the notes, to large balances for the swaps being carried in the balance sheet.
This is currently the case with both euro and US dollar swaps, although the debit balance is compensated for by retranslating the borrowings at the current exchange rate.
Cash flow hedging relationships have been designated in respect of these arrangements.
In addition, the Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge its exposure on the small amount of its lending denominated in foreign currencies.
Analysis of derivative financial instruments The analysis below splits derivatives between those accounted for as part of the portfolio fair value and cash flow hedges described above and those which, despite representing an economic hedge, do not qualify for this treatment.
There were no individual interest rate risk hedging arrangements in place either in the year ended 30 September 2018 or the preceding year.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities amount amount m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 4,753.9 23.9 4.5 3,213.9 8.8 6.4 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency basis swaps 2,217.8 829.7 - 2,627.4 896.3 - 6,971.7 853.6 4.5 5,841.3 905.1 6.4 Other derivatives Interest rate swaps 857.7 2.1 0.2 507.4 1.5 0.7 Currency futures 5.8 - - - - - Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 7,835.2 855.7 4.7 6,348.7 906.6 7.1 At 30 September 2018 cash deposits of 67.5m had been pledged as collateral in respect of cross-currency basis swaps shown above by the respective swap counterparties 2017: 723.6m as described in note 9.
Collateral received or posted in respect of interest rate swaps is shown in notes 41 and 52 respectively.
PAGE 202 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 41.
SUNDR Y ASSETS a The Group 2018 2017 2016 m m m Current assets Accrued interest income 0.6 0.2 0.3 Trade receivables 2.2 4.2 2.4 Prepayments 2.6 2.8 2.6 CSA Assets 3.8 2.0 3.7 CRDs 6.2 1.6 0.6 Other tax 1.1 0.2 0.8 Other receivables 2.5 1.7 2.3 19.0 12.7 12.7 The Group uses the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Master Agreement for documenting certain derivative activity within Paragon Bank.
For certain counterparties a Credit Support Annex CSA has been executed in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed between counterparties to mitigate the market contingent counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding positions.
Collateral pledged to such counterparties by the Group is shown in the table above, while collateral pledged to the Group is shown in note 52.
Cash ratio deposits CRDs are non-interest-bearing deposits lodged with the Bank of England, based on the value of the Banks eligible liabilities.
Accrued interest income, trade receivables, CSA assets, CRDs and other receivables fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32. b The Company 2018 2017 2016 m m m Current assets Amounts owed by Group companies 216.3 40.1 84.5 Accrued interest income 0.7 - 0.1 217.0 40.1 84.6 Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
PAGE 203 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 42.
Leased assets includes 25.7m in respect of assets leased under operating leases 2017: 16.5m and 9.7m of assets available for hire 2017: 6.9m.
During the year the Group entered into a transaction with the Paragon Pension Plan, effectively granting a first charge over its freehold head office building as security for its agreed contributions under the recovery plan.
The carrying value of the assets subject to this charge was 18.3m 2017: nil.
PAGE 204 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company Land and buildings m Cost At 1 October 2016 19.9 Disposals - At 30 September 2017 19.9 Disposals 19.9 At 30 September 2018 - Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2016 1.0 Charge for the year 0.3 On disposals - At 30 September 2017 1.3 Charge for the year 0.2 On disposals 1.5 At 30 September 2018 - Net book value At 30 September 2018 - At 30 September 2017 18.6 At 30 September 2016 18.9 During the year the Groups head office building was transferred to a subsidiary entity as part of the arrangements to establish the effective charge described above.
PAGE 205 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 43.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Computer Other intangible Total note 44 software assets m m m m Cost At 1 October 2016 104.4 7.0 9.2 120.6 Acquisitions 0.3 - - 0.3 Additions - 0.9 - 0.9 At 30 September 2017 104.1 7.9 9.2 121.2 Acquisitions note 13 64.1 - 1.4 65.5 Additions - 1.5 - 1.5 At 30 September 2018 168.2 9.4 10.6 188.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 October 2016 6.0 4.9 4.3 15.2 Amortisation charge for the year - 1.0 0.6 1.6 At 30 September 2017 6.0 5.9 4.9 16.8 Amortisation charge for the year - 1.4 0.7 2.1 At 30 September 2018 6.0 7.3 5.6 18.9 Net book value At 30 September 2018 162.2 2.1 5.0 169.3 At 30 September 2017 98.1 2.0 4.3 104.4 At 30 September 2016 98.4 2.1 4.9 105.4 Other intangible assets comprise brands and the benefit of business networks recognised on the acquisition of businesses.
GOODWILL The goodwill carried in the accounts is attributable to three cash generating units, as analysed below: 2018 2017 m m Asset finance 113.0 96.5 Development finance 47.6 - TBMC 1.6 1.6 At 30 September 2017 162.2 98.1 a Asset finance The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the asset finance cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisitions of PAF and Premier in the year ended 30 September 2016 and Iceberg in the current year note 14.
An impairment review undertaken at 30 September 2018 indicated that no write down was required.
The recoverable amount of the asset finance cash generating unit used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 13.4% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated using a constant growth rate of 2.2% which does not exceed the long term average growth rates for the markets in which the business is active.
PAGE 206 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the asset finance cash generating unit are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on the Groups cost of capital As an illustration of the sensitivity of this impairment test to movements in the key assumptions, the Group has calculated that a 12.6% reduction in profit levels coupled with a 185 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate would eliminate the headroom in the projection.
b Development finance The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the development finance cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisition of Titlestone in the current year note 15.
The recoverable amount of the development finance cash generating unit used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 13.4% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated using a constant growth rate of 2.2% which does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the UK economy.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the development finance cash generating unit are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on the Groups cost of capital Management believes any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions above would not cause the recoverable amount of the Development finance cash generating unit to fall below the balance sheet carrying value.
c TBMC The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the TBMC cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisition of The Business Mortgage Company Limited and its subsidiaries TBMC in December 2008 and impaired by 6.0m in 2009.
An impairment review was undertaken at 30 September 2018 which indicated no further impairment.
The recoverable amount of TBMC used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 5.66% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated using a 2.0% growth rate, being the average long term growth rate in the UK economy over a twenty year period.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the TBMC business are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on market rates of interest plus a margin appropriate to the risk profile of the TBMC business as an investment The directors believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
PAGE 207 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 45.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Shares in group Loans to group Loans to ESOP Total companies companies Trusts m m m m At 1 October 2016 519.4 451.9 13.5 984.8 Investments in subsidiaries 378.6 - - 378.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 150.0 - - 150.0 Loans advanced - 88.9 4.2 93.1 Loans repaid - 494.5 - 494.5 Provision movements 11.4 - 4.3 7.1 At 30 September 2017 759.4 46.3 13.4 819.1 Investments in subsidiaries 12.5 - - 12.5 Disposal of subsidiaries - - - - Loans advanced - 200.0 6.5 206.5 Loans repaid - 46.3 - 46.3 Provision movements 1.2 - 6.2 7.4 At 30 September 2018 770.7 200.0 13.7 984.4 Investments in and disposals of subsidiaries represent transactions between the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
In the year ended 30 September 2017 these transactions were mostly related to the Group restructuring in September 2017.
Crystallisation of provisions as a result of these transfers is the major component of the provision movements in the period.
During the year ended 30 September 2018 the Company received 62.0m in dividend income from its subsidiaries 2017: 44.7m and 12.6m of interest on loans to Group companies 2017: 27.0m.
The Companys subsidiaries, and the nature of its interest in them, are shown in note 67.
RETAIL DEPOSITS The Groups retail deposits, held by Paragon Bank PLC, were received from customers in the UK and are denominated in sterling.
The deposits comprise principally term deposits and 120 day notice accounts.
The method of interest calculation on these deposits is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Fixed rate 3,643.1 2,675.9 1,332.5 Variable rates 1,653.5 939.5 541.4 5,296.6 3,615.4 1,873.9 The weighted average interest rate on retail deposits at 30 September 2018, analysed by charging method, was: 2018 2017 2016 % % % Fixed rate 1.94 1.89 2.11 Variable rates 1.36 1.21 1.65 PAGE 208 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The contractual maturity of these deposits is analysed below.
ASSET BACKED LOAN NOTES The Groups asset backed loan notes Notes are secured on portfolios comprising variable and fixed rate mortgages or personal, retail and car loans.
The maturity date of the Notes matches the maturity date of the underlying assets except as noted below.
The Notes can be prepaid in part from time to time, but such prepayments are limited to the net capital received from borrowers in respect of the underlying assets.
There is no requirement for the Group to make good any shortfall on the Notes out of general funds.
It is likely that a substantial proportion of the Notes will be repaid within five years.
For its public issues, the Group has an additional option to repay all of the Notes at an earlier date the call date, at their outstanding principal amount.
Interest is payable at a fixed margin above: The London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR on notes denominated in sterling The Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR on notes denominated in euros The London Interbank Offered Rate US Dollar LIBOR on notes denominated in US dollars All payments in respect of the Notes are required to be made in the currency in which they are denominated.
All of the Notes are rated and publicly listed, except for those issued by Idem Luxembourg No.
The notes outstanding at 30 September 2018 can be analysed as follows: 2018 2017 Listed Not listed Total Listed Not listed Total m m m m m m Secured on first mortgage assets 5,521.6 - 5,521.6 6,291.1 - 6,291.1 Secured on other assets 33.1 - 33.1 42.3 142.4 184.7 5,554.7 - 5,554.7 6,333.4 142.4 6,475.8 The Group publishes detailed information on the performance of all of its listed note issues on the Bond Investor Reporting section of its website at www.
A more detailed description of the securitisation structure under which these Notes are issued is given in note 10.
On 25 April 2018, a Group company, Paragon Mortgages No.
25 PLC, issued 435.3m of sterling mortgage backed floating rate notes to external investors at par.
375.0m of the notes were class A notes, rated AAA by Fitch and Aaa by Moodys, 31.8m were class B notes, rated AA by Fitch and Aa1 by Moodys and 28.5 were class C notes rated Aby Fitch and A1 by Moodys.
The interest rates above LIBOR on the notes were 0.65% on the A notes, 0.95% on the B notes and 1.30% on the C notes.
The initial average interest margin on the transaction was 0.72% and the proceeds were used to refinance existing short-term liabilities.
The Group retained 289.4m of notes of various classes meaning that its investment represented 39.9% of the issued notes.
PAGE 209 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Notes in issue at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017, net of any held by the Group, were: Principal Average Issuer Maturity date Call date outstanding interest margin 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sterling notes m m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
6 PLC 01 12 35 01 03 08 29.6 31.4 1.05 1.05 Although the maturity date of these notes may be earlier than the potential final redemption date of the underlying loans, repayment cannot be enforced except to the extent that cash can be realised from those assets at that time.
The details of the assets backing these securities are given in note 36.
PAGE 210 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts On 15 November 2018, after the year end, all of the outstanding notes of Paragon Secured Finance No.
The underlying assets were subsequently funded by other Group resources.
On 12 November 2018 notice was also given of the intention to redeem all of the outstanding notes of First Flexible No.
5 PLC at par and this is expected to take place in December 2018.
BANK BORROWINGS New first mortgage loans may be financed by a secured bank loan, referred to as a warehouse facility.
These facilities are drawn on the completion of a mortgage and repayment of the facilities is restricted to the principal cash received in respect of the funded mortgage.
Loans originated in warehouse facilities are refinanced in the mortgage backed securitisation market when conditions are appropriate or through internal sales to access retail funding.
More information on this process is given in note 10 and details of assets held within the warehouse facilities are given in note 36.
Details of the Groups bank borrowings are set out below.
2018 2017 Principal Maximum Carrying Principal Maximum Carrying value available value value available value facility facility m m m m m m i Paragon Second Funding 935.6 935.6 935.6 1,005.7 1,005.7 1,005.7 ii Paragon Fifth Funding - - - 158.0 350.0 157.3 iii Paragon Seventh Funding - - - 143.0 200.0 143.0 935.6 935.6 935.6 1,306.7 1,555.7 1,306.0 i The Paragon Second Funding warehouse was available for further drawings until 29 February 2008 at which point it converted automatically to a term loan and no further drawings were allowed.
This loan is a sterling facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited by a consortium of banks and is secured on all the assets of Paragon Second Funding Limited, Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited and Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited.
Its final repayment date is 28 February 2050 but it is likely that substantial repayments will be made within the next five years.
Interest on this loan is payable monthly in sterling at 0.675% above LIBOR 2017: 0.675% above LIBOR.
ii On 26 September 2012, the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fifth Funding Limited by the wholesale division of Lloyds Bank, which was renewed in January 2014.
On 15 May 2015 the facility was increased to 350.0m, and certain other changes were made to its terms.
The facility was renewed in 2016, but without changes to its terms.
This facility was secured on all the assets of Paragon Fifth Funding Limited and was structured with a three year term to permit drawings and re-drawings until June 2018.
The facility was not renewed prior to this date and expired during the year.
Interest on this loan was payable monthly in sterling at 2.75% above three month LIBOR until January 2014, when the margin was reduced to 1.75%.
iii On 26 September 2015, a Group company, Paragon Seventh Funding Limited, entered into an additional 200.0m committed sterling facility with Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited.
This facility was secured on all the assets of Paragon Seventh Funding Limited and was available for drawings and redrawings until 8 October 2017.
This facility bore interest at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.30%.
The facility was not renewed at the end of the commitment period and was repaid during the year.
The weighted average margin above LIBOR on bank borrowings at 30 September 2018 was 0.675% 2017: 0.873%.
Following the year end, on 14 November 2018, a new 200.0m facility was agreed between Paragon Seventh Funding Limited and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
The facility is secured over all of the assets of Paragon Seventh Funding Limited, with a 12 month commitment period.
Interest is payable at 0.95% over three month LIBOR.
PAGE 211 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 49.
RETAIL BONDS On 11 February 2013 the Company inaugurated a 1,000.0m Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which it may issue retail bonds, or other notes, within a twelve month period.
The prospectus has been updated from time to time, most recently renewing the programme for a further twelve month period on 15 July 2016, but may be further extended in the future.
The terms of issue for each tranche of notes are separately determined.
These bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and have a fixed term, but are callable at the option of the Company.
A summary of the retail bonds outstanding under this programme, shown with their principal values, is set out below.
Maturity date Interest terms Issue price Currency 2018 2017 m m 5 December 2020 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 60.0 60.0 30 January 2022 6.125% p. a. fixed par GBP 125.0 125.0 28 August 2024 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 112.5 112.5 297.5 297.5 The notes are unsubordinated unsecured liabilities of the Company and the amount included in the accounts of the Group and the Company in respect of these bonds is 296.1m 2017: 295.7m.
CORPORATE BONDS On 9 September 2016 the Company issued 150.0m of 7.25% Fixed Rate Reset Callable Subordinated Tier 2 Notes due 2026 at par to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.25% per annum until 9 September 2021, after which interest will be payable at a fixed rate which is 6.731% over the sterling 5-year mid-market swap rate at that time.
These bonds are unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
At issue the Notes were rated BB by Fitch and this rating was upgraded to BBBin the year.
The carrying value of these bonds in the accounts of the Group and the Company at 30 September 2018 was 149.3m 2017: 149.1m.
CENTRAL BANK FACILITIES During the year, the Group has utilised facilities provided by the Bank of England including through its Sterling Monetary Framework.
These facilities enable either funding or off-balance sheet liquidity to be provided to Paragon Bank on the security of designated pools of the Banks first mortgage assets, with the amount available based on the value of the security given, subject to a haircut.
Drawings under the FLS are used to provide off balance sheet liquidity and form part of the Banks HQLA.
Fees are charged under the FLS at 0.25% of the market value of the liquidity drawn and are repayable in June 2020.
Drawings under the Indexed Long-Term Repo Scheme ILTR have a maturity of six months and a rate of interest set in an auction process.
At 30 September 2018 the average rate of interest on the Groups ILTR drawings was 0.90% 2017:N A.
Drawings under the Term Funding Scheme TFS have a maturity of four years and bear interest at bank base rate.
The average remaining maturity of the Groups drawings is 34 months 2017: 45 months.
As these drawings are provided at rates below those available commercially, by a government agency, they are accounted for under IAS 20.
The TFS is no longer available for new drawings.
The amounts drawn under these facilities are set out below.
2018 2017 m m TFS 944.4 700.0 ILTR 80.0 - On balance sheet funding 1,024.4 700.0 FLS 108.7 109.0 Total central bank facilities 1,133.1 809.0 Further first mortgage assets of the Bank have been pre-positioned with the Bank of England for future use in such schemes.
The assets pledged in support of these drawings are set out in note 36.
PAGE 212 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The balances arising from the TFS carried in the Group accounts are shown below.
SUNDRY LIABILITIES a The Group 2018 2017 2016 m m m Current liabilities Accrued interest 27.5 23.6 26.1 Deferred income 0.9 1.1 1.3 Deferred consideration - - 1.9 Trade creditors 2.7 3.5 3.8 Conduct note 53 - 0.5 1.9 CSA liabilities note 41 10.3 - - Other accruals 29.7 21.0 19.6 Other taxation and social security 2.5 1.4 1.7 73.6 51.1 56.3 Non-current liabilities Accrued interest 12.4 7.2 6.5 Deferred income 2.5 2.1 1.7 Contingent consideration 25.7 14.0 13.7 Other accruals 0.2 0.2 0.5 40.8 23.5 22.4 Total sundry liabilities 114.4 74.6 78.7 Accrued interest, contingent consideration, trade creditors and other accruals fall within the definition of financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The contingent consideration liability represents consideration payable in respect of corporate acquisitions which is dependent on the performance of the acquired businesses.
Movements in the contingent liability are set out below.
2018 2017 m m At 1 October 2017 14.0 13.7 Acquisitions note 14 11.8 - Revaluation of liability 0.6 - Unwind of discounting note 19 0.5 0.3 At 30 September 2018 25.7 14.0 PAGE 213 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company 2018 2017 2016 m m m Current liabilities Amounts owed to Group companies 125.7 36.5 168.5 Accrued interest 2.8 2.9 4.7 128.5 39.4 173.2 Accrued interest and other accruals fall within the definition of financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39.
CONDUCT The Group, as a participant in the financial services industry is exposed to a high level of regulatory supervision, which could in the event of conduct failures expose it to financial liabilities.
The Group maintains a strong compliance and conduct culture supervised by the second line compliance function, to mitigate the risk, although it is impossible to eliminate it entirely.
Over recent years, in common with other financial services firms, the Group has followed guidance issued by the FCA in respect of redress to customers in respect of the misselling of payment protection insurance PPI, though the sums involved have not been material.
The regulatory environment continues to develop, both in respect of PPI and other matters, through regulatory policies, legislative rules and court rulings, and while the Groups assessment is that it currently has no further potential liability for conduct issues, this is based on our current interpretation of requirements and hence further liabilities may arise as these develop over time.
CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Current tax in the Group and the Company represents UK corporation tax owed.
DEFERRED TAX a The Group The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: Note 2018 2017 2016 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2017 4.8 2.0 11.3 Acquisitions 13 0.3 - 3.5 Income statement credit 30 1.2 2.8 0.4 Charge credit to equity 1.7 5.6 5.4 Net liability at 30 September 2018 5.6 4.8 2.0 The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 4.1 4.0 4.2 Retirement benefit obligations 3.7 5.7 11.1 Impairment and other provisions 14.0 14.9 16.4 Tax losses 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other timing differences 0.4 0.2 1.1 Net deferred tax liability 5.6 4.8 2.0 PAGE 214 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts As stated in note 30 legislation has been introduced to reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax to 17.0% from 1 April 2020.
The temporary differences have been provided at the rate prevailing when the Group anticipates the temporary difference to reverse.
In the event that the temporary differences actually reverse in different periods a credit or charge will arise in a future period to reflect the difference.
The timing of reversal of temporary differences will be affected by both matters within the Groups control eg the timing and nature of the refinancing of certain portfolios and matters outside the Groups control eg the level of redemptions of finance leases.
If temporary differences reverse within Paragon Bank PLC in a period in which it is subject to the banking surcharge, then the impact of the reversal will be at an effective tax rate that includes the surcharge to some extent.
The deferred tax numbers above do not include any material temporary differences in Paragon Bank PLC.
In addition, the Group has tax losses of 1.7m 2017: 1.7m in entities whose current taxable profits are insufficient to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset.
b The Company The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2017 1.8 1.9 1.9 Income statement credit - 0.1 - Net liability at 30 September 2018 1.8 1.8 1.9 The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Other timing differences 1.8 1.8 1.9 Net deferred tax liability 1.8 1.8 1.9 56.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS a Defined benefit plan - description The Group operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK the Plan.
The Plan assets are held in a separate fund, administered by a corporate trustee, to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustee of the Plan is required by law to act in the best interests of the Plans beneficiaries and is responsible for the investment policy adopted in respect of the Plans assets.
The appointment of directors to the Trustee is determined by the Plans trust documentation.
The Group has a policy that one third of all directors of the Trustee should be nominated by active and pensioner members of the Plan.
Employees who are members of the Plan are entitled to receive a pension of 1 60 of their final basic annual salary for every year of eligible service to a maximum of 2 3.
Dependants of members of the Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The principal actuarial risks to which the Plan is exposed are: Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit liabilities is calculated using a discount rate set by reference to high quality corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform corporate bonds, this will increase the deficit.
The strategic allocation of assets under the Plan is currently weighted towards equity assets and diversified growth funds as its liability profile is relatively immature and it is expected that these asset classes will, over the long term, outperform gilts and corporate bonds.
In consultation with the Company, the Trustee keeps the allocation of the Plans investments under review to manage this risk on a long-term basis.
Interest risk A fall in corporate bond yields would reduce the discount rate used in valuing the Plan liabilities and increase the value of the Plan liabilities.
The Plan assets would also be expected to increase, to the extent that bond assets are held, but this would not be expected to fully match the increase in liabilities, given the weighting towards equity assets and diversified growth funds noted above.
Inflation risk Pensions in payment are increased annually in line with the Retail Price Index RPI or the Consumer Price Index CPI for Guaranteed Minimum Pensions built up since 1988.
Pensions built up since 5 April 2006 are capped at 2.5% and pensions built up before 6 April 2006 are capped at 5%.
For employees who have left the Company but have deferred pensions, these also revalue over the period to retirement predominantly in line with RPI.
Therefore an increase in inflation would also increase the value of the pension liabilities.
The Plan assets would also be expected to increase, to the extent that they are linked to inflation, but this may not fully match the increase in liabilities.
Longevity risk The value of the Plan deficit is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality rate among Plan members both during and after employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the members would increase the deficit in the Plan.
Salary risk The valuation of the Plan assumes a level of future salary increases based on a premium over the expected rate of inflation.
Should the salaries of Plan members increase at a higher rate then the deficit will be higher.
PAGE 215 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The risks relating to death in service payments are insured with an external insurance company.
As a result of the Plan having been closed to new entrants since February 2002, the service cost as a percentage of pensionable salaries is expected to increase as the average age of active members rises over time.
However the membership is expected to reduce so that the service cost in monetary terms will gradually reduce.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Plans liabilities, obtained by the Trustee, was carried out at 31 March 2016, by Aon Hewitt, the Plans independent actuary.
This showed that the value of the Plans liabilities on a buy-out basis in accordance with Section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004 was 214.0m, with a shortfall against the assets of 118.4m.
Following the 2016 actuarial valuation, the Trustee put in place a revised recovery plan.
The Trustees recovery plan aims to meet the statutory funding objective within six years and ten months from the date of valuation, that is by 31 January 2023.
As part of this recovery plan, the Group entered into a transaction effectively granting the Plan a first charge over its head office building as security for payments under the plan note 42. b Defined benefit plan financial impact For accounting purposes the valuation at 31 March 2016 was updated to 30 September 2018 in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised by Mercer, the Groups independent consulting actuary.
The major categories of assets in the Plan at 30 September 2018, 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 and their fair values were: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Cash 0.6 0.9 9.7 Equity instruments 61.8 58.7 56.0 Debt instruments 28.4 28.9 29.5 Real estate 10.7 9.8 8.9 Total fair value of Plan assets 101.5 98.3 104.1 Present value of Plan liabilities 121.0 128.1 162.5 Deficit in the Plan 19.5 29.8 58.4 At 30 September 2018 the Plan assets were invested in a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt investments.
The majority of the equities held by the Plan are in developed markets.
All investments of the Plan are in managed funds for which unit prices are quoted publicly by the fund managers, however they are not openly traded so are considered to be Level 2 financial instruments as defined by IFRS 13.
During October 2018, after the balance sheet date, the High Court made a ruling in the Lloyds Banking Group Pension Scheme GMP Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation case, which effectively directs defined benefit pension schemes to change their rules to equalise the benefits of male and female members for the effects of GMPs for employees who were, at one time, contracted out of state schemes.
The Court did not specify a single method which schemes should employ and hence the impact of this on the Plan will not be certain until the Trustee has determined which method should be adopted and detailed calculations have been performed to evaluate the impact, as the impact on members will vary from person to person.
For the purposes of the accounts of the Group for the year ending 30 September 2018 this is considered to be a non-adjusting post balance sheet event, as the ruling was handed down after the balance sheet date.
The Groups present expectation is that the ruling will result in an additional charge to profit in the year ending 30 September 2019 of 0.2m before tax.
However, this estimate is based on a preliminary interpretation of the ruling and a high-level calculation and therefore the actual amount posted may vary due to the Trustees response to the ruling, idiosyncratic impacts on individual members and the development of a wider legal and accounting consensus on the proper interpretation of the courts requirements as the ruling is studied in more detail.
There is also the potential for the ruling to be appealed.
The movement in the fair value of the Plan assets during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 October 2017 98.3 104.1 Interest on Plan assets 2.6 2.3 Cash flows Contributions by Group 4.5 3.7 Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 4.7 19.0 Administration expenses paid 0.5 0.4 Remeasurement gain Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 1.1 7.4 At 30 September 2018 101.5 98.3 PAGE 216 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The actual return on Plan assets in the year ended 30 September 2018 was 3.7m 2017: 9.7m.
Benefits paid in the year ended 30 September 2017 includes amounts transferred on the settlement of the Plans commitments to certain members with large accrued benefits.
No gain or loss arose on these transfers, which will reduce the Plans exposure to future volatility.
The movement in the present value of the Plan liabilities during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 October 2017 128.1 162.5 Current service cost 1.8 2.4 Funding cost 3.4 3.6 Cash flows Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 4.7 19.0 Remeasurement gain Arising from demographic assumptions 1.8 6.7 Arising from financial assumptions 6.0 10.7 Arising from experience adjustments - 4.2 At 30 September 2018 121.0 128.1 The liabilities of the Plan are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the Plan using the Projected Unit method.
This amount is reflected in the liability in the balance sheet.
The Projected Unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the Plan liabilities are calculated based on service up until the valuation date allowing for future salary growth until the date of retirement, withdrawal or death, as appropriate.
The future service rate is then calculated as the contribution rate required to fund the service accruing over the next year again allowing for future salary growth.
The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuary were in nominal terms : 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 30 September 2016 In determining net pension cost for the year Discount rate 2.70% 2.40% 3.90% Rate of compensation increase 3.60% 3.50% 3.55% Rate of price inflation 3.10% 3.00% 3.05% Rate of increase of pensions 2.90% 2.95% 3.00% In determining benefit obligations Discount rate 2.95% 2.70% 2.40% Rate of compensation increase 3.60% 3.60% 3.50% Rate of price inflation 3.10% 3.10% 3.00% Rate of increase of pensions 2.95% 2.90% 2.95% Further life expectancy at age 60 Male member aged 60 28 29 29 Female member aged 60 29 30 31 Male member aged 40 30 30 32 Female member aged 40 31 32 34 PAGE 217 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The amounts charged in the consolidated income statement in respect of the Plan are: Note 2018 2017 m m 24 Current service cost 1.8 2.4 Administration expenses 0.5 0.4 Included within operating expenses 2.3 2.8 Funding cost of Plan liabilities 3.4 3.6 Interest on Plan assets 2.6 2.3 19 Net interest expense 0.8 1.3 Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss 3.1 4.1 The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the Plan are: 2018 2017 m m Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 1.1 7.4 Actuarial gains Arising from demographic assumptions 1.8 6.7 Arising from financial assumptions 6.0 10.7 Arising from experience adjustments - 4.2 Total actuarial gain 8.9 29.0 Tax thereon 1.7 5.5 Net actuarial gain 7.2 23.5 Of the remeasurement movements reflected above: The return on plan assets represents better than expected investment performance The change in demographic assumptions reflects the adoption of new mortality assumptions, using the most recent version of the tables adopted by the Trustee in the triennial valuation, which predict lower life expectancy among members than the previous versions The change in financial assumptions reflects principally the impact of increased inflation expectations on discount rates c Defined benefit plan future cash flows The sensitivity of the valuation of the defined benefit obligation to the principal assumptions disclosed above at 30 September 2018, calculating the obligation on the same basis as used in determining the IAS 19 value, is as follows: Assumption Increase in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate 0.1% p. a.
Decrease by 2.1% Rate of inflation 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 2.1% Rate of salary growth 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 0.4% Rates of mortality 1 year of life expectancy Increase by 2.1% maintaining a 0.5% assumption for real salary growth The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of an actual future change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation as some of the assumptions will be correlated.
There has been no change in the method of preparing the analysis from that adopted in previous years.
In conjunction with the Trustee, the Group has continued to conduct asset-liability reviews of the Plan.
These studies are used to assist the Trustee and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan.
The results of the studies are used to assist the Trustee in managing the volatility in the underlying investment performance and risk of a significant increase in the scheme deficit by providing information used to determine the investment strategy of the Plan.
There have been no changes in the processes by which the Plan manages its risks from previous periods.
The target asset allocations for the year ending 30 September 2019 are 60% growth assets primarily equities, 30% bonds and 10% real estate.
PAGE 218 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The rate of employee contributions to the Plan is 5.0% of pensionable salaries.
Before 1 April 2017 the agreed rate of employer contributions was 27.0% of gross salaries for participating employees with additional contributions of 1.5m per annum for deficit reduction and 0.4m per annum to cover administration and life cover costs, payable monthly.
After 1 April 2017, following the finalisation of the March 2016 valuation, employer contributions increased to 32.0% of gross salaries and the additional contribution for deficit reduction increased to 2.5m per annum.
The 0.4m per annum contribution in respect of costs remained in place.
The present best estimate of the contributions to be made to the Plan by the Group in the year ending 30 September 2019 is 4.5m.
The average durations of the benefit obligations in the Plan at the year end are shown in the table below: 2018 2017 Years Years Category of member Active members 24 24 Deferred pensioners 23 23 Current pensioners 15 16 All members 22 22 d Defined contribution arrangements The Group sponsors a defined contribution Worksave pension scheme, open to all employees who are not members of the Plan.
The Group successfully completed the auto-enrolment process mandated by the UK Government in November 2013, using this scheme.
The PAF business also sponsors a number of defined contribution pension plans and makes contributions to these schemes in respect of employees.
The assets of these schemes are not Group assets and are held separately from those of the Group, under the control of independent trustees.
Contributions made by the Group to these schemes in the year ended 30 September 2018, which represent the total cost charged against income, were 1.9m 2017: 1.9m note 24.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company consists of a single class of 1 ordinary shares.
Movements in the issued share capital in the year were: 2018 2017 Number Number Ordinary shares At 1 October 2017 281,489,701 295,852,094 Shares issued 107,235 637,607 Shares cancelled - 15,000,000 At 30 September 2018 281,596,936 281,489,701 During the year the Company issued 107,235 shares 2017: 637,607 to satisfy options granted under Sharesave schemes for a consideration of 360,031 2017: 1,575,925.
PAGE 219 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 58.
RESERVES a The Group 2018 2017 2016 m m m Share premium account 65.8 65.5 64.6 Capital redemption reserve 28.7 28.7 13.7 Merger reserve 70.2 70.2 70.2 Cash flow hedging reserve 3.3 2.5 2.1 Profit and loss account 890.7 784.5 725.9 918.3 811.0 736.1 b The Company 2018 2017 2016 m m m Share premium account 65.8 65.5 64.6 Capital redemption reserve 28.7 28.7 13.7 Merger reserve 23.7 23.7 23.7 Profit and loss account 390.0 384.0 415.5 460.8 454.5 470.1 The merger reserve arose, due to the provisions of UK company law at the time, on a group restructuring on 12 May 1989 when the Company became the parent entity of the Group.
The cash flows to which amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve relate result from the cross-currency basis swaps described in note 12.
The contractual life of these swaps, over which cash flows might take place and affect profit, extend over the next 25 years 2017: 27 years.
However the cash flows in respect of these swaps will only continue for as long as the related notes remain outstanding, which is expected to be a much shorter period.
These shares do not qualify for dividends.
PAGE 220 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP shares are held in trust for the benefit of employees exercising their options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the Paragon Performance Share Plan and Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The trustees costs are included in the operating expenses of the Group.
Options, or other share-based awards, were outstanding against all of these shares at 30 September 2018 2017: all.
The dividends on all of these shares have been waived 2017: all.
EQUITY DIVIDEND Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the Group and the Company in the period: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Per share Per share m m Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 11.0p 9.2p 28.9 25.5 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 5.5p 4.7p 14.2 12.5 16.5p 13.9p 43.1 38.0 Amounts paid and proposed in respect of the year: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Per share Per share m m Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 5.5p 4.7p 14.2 12.5 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 13.9p 11.0p 35.8 28.9 19.4p 15.7p 50.0 41.4 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2018 will be paid on 18 February 2019, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, with a record date of 11 January 2019.
The dividend will be recognised in the accounts when it is paid.
PAGE 221 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 61.
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES a The Group 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 181.5 144.8 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of operating property, plant and equipment 1.9 1.9 Profit on disposal of operating property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.1 1.6 Foreign exchange movement on borrowings 67.6 468.9 Other non-cash movements on borrowings 6.0 6.4 Impairment losses on loans to customers 7.4 5.3 Charge for share based remuneration 6.1 4.2 Net increase decrease in operating assets: Operating lease assets 12.0 7.4 Loans to customers 781.7 391.9 Derivative financial instruments 50.9 459.8 Fair value of portfolio hedges 15.4 21.2 Other receivables 6.1 - Net increase decrease in operating liabilities: Retail deposits 1,681.2 1,741.5 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 8.7 Fair value of portfolio hedges 0.7 4.3 Other liabilities 24.6 1.8 Cash generated by operations 1,106.4 1,503.6 Income taxes paid 32.0 28.9 1,074.4 1,474.7 Cash flows relating to plant and equipment held for leasing under operating leases are classified as operating cash flows.
PAGE 222 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 39.6 44.6 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.3 Non-cash movements on borrowings 0.6 0.5 Impairment provision release on investments in subsidiaries 7.4 8.1 Charge for share based remuneration 6.1 4.2 Net increase decrease in operating assets: Other receivables 176.9 45.5 Net increase decrease in operating liabilities: Other liabilities 89.1 133.8 Cash utilised generated by operations 33.9 46.8 Income taxes received paid 3.4 2.3 30.5 44.5 62.
NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Proceeds from sales of operating property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.3 18.4 - Purchases of operating property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.7 - - Purchases of intangible assets 1.5 0.9 - - Decrease in short term investments - 7.1 - - Movement in loans to subsidiary undertakings - - 160.2 401.4 Acquisitions note 13 281.0 1.6 - - Investment in subsidiary undertakings - - 12.5 378.6 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings - - - 150.0 Net cash utilised generated by investing activities 282.8 3.2 154.3 172.8 PAGE 223 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 63.
NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Shares issued note 57 0.4 1.5 0.4 1.5 Dividends paid note 60 43.1 38.0 43.1 38.0 Issue of asset backed floating rate notes 432.5 69.8 - - Repayment of asset backed floating rate notes 1,289.7 1,503.0 - - Repayment of corporate bonds - 110.0 - 110.0 Movement on central bank facilities 324.4 700.0 - - Movement on other bank facilities 371.1 268.6 - - Purchase of shares note 59 31.8 69.7 25.2 65.5 Net cash utilised by financing activities 978.4 1,218.0 67.9 212.0 64.
PAGE 224 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company Cash flows Non-cash movements Opening Debt Other Foreign Other Closing debt issued exchange debt m m m m m m 30 September 2018 Corporate bonds 149.1 - - - 0.2 149.3 Retail bonds 295.7 - - - 0.4 296.1 Gross debt 444.8 - - - 0.6 445.4 Cash 277.6 - 252.7 - - 24.9 Net debt 167.2 - 252.7 - 0.6 420.5 30 September 2017 Corporate bonds 259.0 - 110.0 - 0.1 149.1 Retail bonds 295.3 - - - 0.4 295.7 Gross debt 554.3 - 110.0 - 0.5 444.8 Cash 361.3 - 83.7 - - 277.6 Net debt 193.0 - 26.3 - 0.5 167.2 Other non-cash changes shown above represent EIR adjustments relating to the spreading of initial costs of the bonds.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS a As Lessor The Group, through its asset finance business, leases assets under operating leases.
In respect of certain of these assets, the Group also provides maintenance services to the lessee.
Assets subject to these arrangements are shown in note 42 and the income from these activities is shown in note 20.
The future minimum lease payments under these arrangements may be analysed as follows: The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.0 3.0 - - Between two and five years 7.2 7.5 - - After more than five years 0.6 0.3 - - 9.8 10.8 - - b As Lessee The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in operating expenses for the year Office buildings 1.8 2.1 - - Motor vehicles 0.3 0.3 - - Office equipment 0.1 0.2 - - 2.2 2.6 - - PAGE 225 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts At 30 September 2018 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: The Group The Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.6 2.4 - - Between two and five years 6.8 6.8 - - After more than five years 2.9 3.8 - - 12.3 13.0 - - Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group in respect of certain of its office premises and lease payments on company vehicles and equipment.
The average term of the current building leases from inception or acquisition is 8 years 2017: 6 years with rents subject to review every five years, while the average term of the vehicle leases and office equipment is 3 years 2017: 3 years.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS a The Group During the year certain of the non-executive directors of the Group were beneficially interested in savings deposits made with Paragon Bank, on the same terms as were available to members of the public.
The amount of such deposits outstanding at the year end was 250,000 2017: nil.
Mr A K Fletcher, a non-executive director of the Company, is a director of Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited, which acts as the corporate trustee of the Plan.
In respect of this appointment he was paid 15,000 in the year ended 30 September 2018 by Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the Plan 2017: 10,000.
The Plan is a related party of the Group.
Transactions with the Plan are described in note 56.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 25. b The Company During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards to employees of subsidiary undertakings under the share based payment arrangements described in note 26.
Details of the Companys investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in notes 45 and 67.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 41 and 52.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 1.3m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2017: 10.2m.
PAGE 226 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 67.
DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary undertakings of the Group at 30 September 2018, where the share capital is held within the Group are shown below.
The holdings shown are those held within the Group.
The shareholdings of the Company in the direct subsidiaries listed below are the same as those held by the Group, except that: For the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 74% of the share capital For the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 66.7% of the share capital In these cases the remainder is held by other group companies.
The issued share capital of all subsidiaries consists of ordinary share capital, except those companies marked which have additional preference share capital held within the Group.
Company Holding Principal activity Direct subsidiaries of Paragon Banking Group PLC Paragon Car Finance Limited 100% Vehicle finance Idem Capital Holdings Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Moorgate Servicing Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Deposit taking, residential mortgages and loan and Paragon Bank PLC 100% vehicle finance SPV Securities Limited 100% Asset investment The Business Mortgage Company Limited 100% Mortgage broker Paragon Fourth Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
8 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
9 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
10 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
11 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
12 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
13 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
14 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
15 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
16 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
17 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Personal and Auto Finance No.
3 PLC 100% Loan and vehicle finance Paragon Secured Finance No.
1 PLC 100% Loan finance First Flexible No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Collateralised Mortgage Securities No.
12 PLC 100% Non-trading Colonial Finance UK Limited 100% Non-trading Earlswood Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
3 Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
4 PLC 100% Non-trading Idem Luxembourg No.
9 100% Non-trading PAGE 227 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Company Holding Principal activity Direct subsidiaries of Paragon Banking Group PLC Mortgage Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading NHL Second Funding Corporation Limited 100% Non-trading NHL Third Funding Corporation Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Dealer Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Finance Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Lending Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
2 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
1 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
2 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
4 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
5 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
27 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Pension Investments GP Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Servicing Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Third Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Vehicle Contracts Limited 100% Non-trading Plymouth Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Redbrick Real Estate Services Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
3 Limited 100% Non-trading formerly TBMC 2 Limited Townend Farm Easington Management Company Limited 100% Non-trading Universal Credit Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Freeholds Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Leaseholds Limited 100% Non-trading Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Paragon Bank PLC Paragon Finance PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Mortgage Trust Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited 100% Residential mortgages First Flexible No.
6 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Mortgage Trust Services PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Paragon Second Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages and loan and vehicle finance Paragon Asset Finance Limited 100% Holding company and portfolio administration formerly Paragon Bank Asset Finance Limited City Business Finance Limited 100% Asset finance Paragon Business Finance PLC 100% Asset finance formerly Paragon Bank Business Finance PLC Paragon Commercial Finance Limited 80% Asset finance formerly Dash Commercial Finance Limited Paragon Development Finance Limited 100% Development finance formerly Capital Professions Finance Limited Paragon Development Finance Services Limited 100% Development finance formerly Titlestone Property Services Limited Paragon Technology Finance Limited 100% Asset finance formerly Paragon Bank Technology Finance Limited PBAF Acquisitions Limited 100% Residential mortgages and loan finance PAGE 228 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Company Holding Principal activity Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Paragon Bank PLC PBAF No.
1 Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Premier Asset Finance Limited 100% Asset finance broker Specialist Fleet Services Limited 100% Asset finance and contract hire Collett Transport Services Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Media Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Homer Management Limited 100% Non-trading Lease Portfolio Management Limited 100% Non-trading State Securities Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading State Security Limited 100% Non-trading Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Idem Capital Holdings Limited Moorgate Loan Servicing Limited 100% Asset administration Idem No.
3 Limited 100% Asset investment Idem Capital Securities Limited 100% Asset investment Idem First Finance Limited 100% Asset investment Paragon Personal Finance Limited 100% Consumer loan finance Idem No.
6 Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Acquisitions Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Luxembourg No.
10 100% Non-trading Other indirect subsidiary undertakings Redbrick Survey and Valuation Limited 100% Surveyors and property consulting Buy to Let Direct Limited 100% Non-trading LOM Recoveries Limited 100% Non-trading Moorgate Asset Administration Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Options PLC 100% Non-trading TBMC Group Limited 100% Non-trading The Business Mortgage Company Services Limited 100% Non-trading The financial year end of all of the Groups subsidiary companies is 30 September.
They are all registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK except: Those entities marked which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Paragon Pension Investments GP Limited, which is registered in Scotland and operates in the UK 20% of the equity of Paragon Commercial Finance Limited is subject to a call option agreed as part of the acquisition of the company by PAF.
No material minority interest attaches to this holding.
As part of the Groups financing arrangements certain mortgage and consumer loans originated by Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited and Mortgage Trust Limited or acquired by Idem Capital Securities Limited have been sold to special purpose entity companies, which had raised non-recourse finance to fund these purchases.
The shares of these companies are ultimately beneficially owned through independent trusts and are considered to be controlled by the Group, as defined by IFRS 10 and hence they are considered to be subsidiaries of the Group.
PAGE 229 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The principal companies party to these arrangements at 30 September 2018 comprise: Company Principal activity First Flexible No.
4 PLC Residential mortgages First Flexible No.
5 PLC Residential mortgages Idem Capital Securities No.
1 Asset investment Idem Luxembourg No.
8 Asset investment Paragon Fifth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Sixth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Seventh Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
18 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
18 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
19 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
19 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
20 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
20 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
21 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
21 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
22 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
22 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
23 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
23 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
24 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
24 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
25 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
25 PLC Residential mortgages Arianty Holdings Limited Holding company Arianty No.
1 Limited Non-trading Arianty Services Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
1 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
2 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
3 Limited Non-trading All of these companies are registered and operate in the UK except Idem Capital Securities No.
8 which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
8 LLP are limited liability partnerships, established under English law, in which all of the members are Group companies.
They are therefore considered to be subsidiary entities.
Both are registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK.
3 Limited, a company limited by guarantee, is registered in England and Wales and operates in the UK.
It is included in the consolidation as it is ultimately controlled by the parent company.
The Group accounts include the results of two Jersey companies, which are ultimately beneficially owned by a charitable trust, but are considered to be controlled by the Group, using the definition contained in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
These companies, Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited and Idem Jersey No.
2 Limited are registered in the Bailiwick of Jersey and operate in the UK.
The share capital of Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited is divided into A shares and B shares.
All of the 600 B shares are held by Group companies 100 by the parent company and 500 by other Group companies.
The Paragon Pension Partnership LP is a limited partnership established under Scots law, in which control is vested in members which are Group companies.
It is therefore considered to be a subsidiary entity.
The outside member is the Groups Pension Plan and the Plans rights to income from the partnership are set out in the partnership agreement.
Therefore, no minority interest arises.
The partnership is registered in Scotland and operates in the UK.
PAGE 230 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The registered office of each of the entities listed in this note is the same as that of the Company note 1, except that: The registered office of The Business Mortgage Company Limited, Buy to Let Direct Limited, TBMC Group Limited, and The Business Mortgage Company Services Limited is Greenmeadow House, 2 Village Way, Greenmeadow Springs Business Park, Cardiff, CF15 7NE The registered office of State Security Limited is Burlington House, Botleigh Grange Office Campus, Grange Drive, Hedge End, Southampton, SO30 2AF The registered office of the Scottish companies is Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, EH12 5HD The office of the Luxembourg entities is 8-10, Avenue fide la Gare, L-1610 Luxembourg The registered office of the Jersey companies is IFC 5, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ST All of the entities listed in this note are included in the consolidated accounts of the Group.
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that are within the scope of CRD IV.
The objective of the country-by-country reporting requirements is to provide increased transparency regarding the source of the financial institutions income and the locations of its operations.
Paragon Banking Group PLC is a UK registered entity.
Details of its subsidiaries are given in note 67 and the activities of the Group are described in Section A2.1.
The activities of the Group, described as required by the Regulations for the year ended 30 September 2018 were: United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2018 Total operating income 301.9 Profit before tax 181.5 Corporation tax paid 32.0 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 1,103 United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2017 Total operating income 252.8 Profit before tax 144.8 Corporation tax paid 28.9 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 1,229 The Groups participation in Bank of England funding schemes is set out in note 51.
PAGE 231 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts E. APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT Additional financial information supporting amounts shown in the Strategic Report Section A, but not forming part of the Statutory Accounts E1 APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT A.
UNDERLYING RESULTS The Group reports underlying profit excluding fair value accounting adjustments arising from its hedging arrangements and certain one-off items of income and costs relating to asset sales and acquisitions.
These include the direct transaction cost of the acquisitions, the additional net funding costs of deposits built up over time to satisfy consideration on acquisitions and the break costs of the Idem Capital facility.
The transactions relating to the acquisitions and asset sales do not form part of the day-to-day activities of the Group and, therefore, their removal provides greater clarity on the Groups operational performance.
There were no corporate acquisitions or significant asset sales in the year ended 30 September 2017.
This measure has been chosen following consideration of the needs of investors and analysts following the Groups shares, and because management feel it better represents the underlying economic performance of the Groups business.
2018 2018 2017 m m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 181.5 144.8 Less: Gain on disposal of financial assets 28.0 - Add back: Acquisition related funding costs included in net interest 0.7 - Add back: Overhead costs related to acquisition related funding 0.2 - Add back: Transaction costs 1.3 - Add back: Acquisition related costs note 13 2.2 - Add back: Facility break costs note 21 1.2 - Add back: Other one-off costs 0.8 - Add back: Fair value adjustments 1.2 0.4 Underlying profit 156.5 145.2 Underlying basic earnings per share, calculated on the basis of underlying profit, charged at the overall effective tax rate, is derived as follows.
2018 2017 m m Underlying profit 156.5 145.2 Tax at effective rate note 30 30.8 27.7 Underlying earnings 125.7 117.5 Basic weighted average number of shares note 32 260.8 271.6 Underlying earnings per share 48.2p 43.3p Underlying return on tangible equity is derived using underlying earnings calculated on the same basis.
2018 2017 m m Underlying earnings 125.7 117.5 Amortisation of intangible assets note 23 2.1 1.6 Adjusted underlying earnings 127.8 119.1 Average tangible equity note 7 b 915.8 884.5 Underlying RoTE 14.0% 13.5% PAGE 234 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts B.
INCOME STATEMENT RATIOS The average net interest margin is calculated as follows: Note 2018 2017 m m Opening loans to customers 35 11,124.1 10,737.5 35 Closing loans to customers 12,127.8 11,124.1 Average loans to customers 11,626.0 10,930.8 Net interest 254.6 232.6 Net interest margin 2.19% 2.13% Impairment provision 28 7.4 5.3 Impairment as a percentage of average loan balance 0.06% 0.05% Net interest margin on an underlying basis is derived as shown below 2018 2017 m m Net interest as above 254.6 232.6 One off items related to interest Acquisition funding costs 0.7 - Facility break costs 1.2 - Underlying net interest 256.5 232.6 Average loans to customers as above 11,626.0 10,930.8 Underlying net interest margin 2.21% 2.13% C. COST:INCOME RATIO Cost:income ratio is derived as follows: Note 2018 2017 m m Cost operating expenses 23 114.2 102.3 Total operating income 301.9 252.8 Cost Income 37.8% 40.5% Underlying cost:income ratio is derived as follows: 2018 2017 m m Cost as above 114.2 102.3 Acquisition costs expensed 1.5 - Other one-off costs 0.8 - Adjusted cost 111.9 102.3 Income as above 301.9 252.8 Gain on disposal of financial asset 28.0 - Acquisition net funding costs 0.7 - Facility break costs 1.2 - Adjusted income 275.8 252.8 Underlying cost:income ratio 40.6% 40.5% PAGE 235 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts D. NET ASSET VALUE Note 2018 2017 Total equity m 1,095.9 1,009.4 57 Outstanding issued shares m 281.6 281.5 59 Treasury shares m 20.8 15.7 Shares held by ESOP schemes m 59 2.9 3.2 257.9 262.6 Net asset value per 1 ordinary share 4.25 3.84 7 Tangible equity m 926.6 905.0 Tangible net asset value per 1 ordinary share 3.59 3.45 PAGE 236 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts PAGE 237 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts F. USEFUL INFORMATION Information which may be helpful to shareholders and other users of the Annual Report and Accounts F1 Glossary PAGE 240 A summary of abbreviations used in the Annual Report and Accounts F2 Shareholder Information PAGE 242 Information about dividends, meetings and managing shareholdings F3 Other Public Reporting PAGE 244 Current and future public reporting information for the Group F4 Contacts PAGE 246 Names and addresses of the Groups advisers
