Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 226 Glossary of major products and services AcceleratED pathways: a corporate education The Clinical Assessment portfolio also offers a B TEC Level 1 Level 2 Firsts: BTEC Firsts allow benefit, where Pearson partners with companies range of assessments serving a diverse audience level 2 learners to develop knowledge and to improve employee development by focusing of professionals including Psychologists, Speech understanding by applying their learning on the educational needs of a specific business Language Pathologists, Occupational Therapists and skills in real-life scenarios.
Combined with and its people, helping to strategically align and more.
These professionals rely on leading other qualifications, they enable learners to educational assistance spending to the talent measures like the Wechsler Scales of Intelligence, progress to further study, an apprenticeship, objectives of the organisation.
which assess an individuals cognitive strengths or into employment.
and weaknesses or the Minnesota Multiphasic ACCUPLACER MyFoundationsLab : B TEC Level 1 Level 2 Tech Awards: studied Personality Inventory MMPI, a world renowned this all-in-one diagnostics and intervention alongside GCSE, BTEC Tech Awards provide a measure of psychopathology and personality.
programme combines The College Boards great introduction to a professional sector assessment programme with Pearsons proven Other examples of our Clinical products include: where students learn transferable skills online intervention solution.
It identifies the theyll use if they progress to further study, B ehaviour Assessment System for Children: areas where a student needs work and then and in their future career.
a comprehensive set of rating scales and forms takes a personalised learning path that helps to help children thrive in their school and home B TEC Level 2 Technicals: designed in them work on their individual skills deficit.
environments through effective behaviour collaboration with employers and industry Last year alone, Pearson delivered 9.2M tests assessment.
BASC provides a complete picture professionals, BTEC Level 2 Technicals provide on the ACCUPLACER platform.
of child and adolescent behaviour.
School and career-focused, applied courses for post-16 Artificial intelligence AI : describes machines clinical psychologists have depended on level 2 learners in a specialist occupational area.
that can sense and interact with environments BASC for more than 20 years.
They support progression to an apprenticeship, in a  cycle, or with to further technical study, or into the workplace.
G oldman-Fristoe Test of Articulation-Third other machines, without explicit programming.
Edition GFTA-3 : a systematic means of B TEC Level 3 Nationals: allow level 3 learners This is typically accomplished through Machine assessing an individuals ability to pronounce to apply their learning in real-life scenarios to Learning ML which is the development, and different speech sounds of Standard American develop the specialist knowledge and skills they application of algorithms that improve their English in order to diagnose different disorders need to progress towards their chosen career performance inference at some task based which can inhibit an individuals articulation.
path, whether that is through further or higher on experience training.
Pearson takes a It provides information about an individuals education, an apprenticeship or directly into human-centric perspective of AI that considers speech sound ability by sampling both the workplace.
the entire learning ecosystem when developing spontaneous and imitative sound production AI capabilities including ethics, privacy, B TEC Higher Nationals: available at levels 4 in single words and connected speech.
appropriate uses and user needs.
and 5, BTEC Higher Nationals are internationally Connections Academy: The Connections Bug Club: a core reading programme for recognised, career-focused higher education Academy online school programme for grades 4-11 year olds, which has everything needed courses which are the same level as the first and K12 is a comprehensive collection of online to deliver the 2014 UK primary curriculum and second years of a degree course.
Co-designed learning products and school support services includes over 590 finely levelled titles, available with employers and representing the most for online public schools across the US, most of in print and eBook format and a unique online up-to-date professional standards, they which carry the Connections Academy name.
learning platform with in-built assessment.
support learners to develop the real-world In addition, International Connections Academy knowledge, skills and behaviours needed BTEC: taught in colleges, schools and university is a private online school for grades K12 and to succeed, allowing them to move on to throughout the world, a BTEC gives learners of serves students worldwide.
complete degree and progress in their all levels and ages the knowledge and skills they chosen career path.
Digitallyenabled learning: learning that need for career success, now and into the future.
is enabled through digital media, tools The unique experience BTEC learners get of Clinical Assessment: our Clinical Assessment or technology.
having to apply the knowledge and skills theyve business provides assessments to help learned to real-life scenarios means more professionals improve lives by providing Edexcel GCSE A level: AS and A levels employers and learners are choosing BTEC.
valuable information that can identify and sometimes called General Certificates of manage an individual learners strengths and Education GCE or Advanced levels are weaknesses and learning barriers.
For example, normally studied after level 2 in a BTEC or GCSEs.
AimsWeb Plus provides universal screening, They mainly involve studying the theory of a benchmarking, and progress monitoring subject, combined with some investigative work, assessments to give educators the reliable and are usually studied full time over two years data they need to improve students maths at school or college.
AS and A levels are at level 3 and reading skills.
on the National Qualifications Framework.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Glossary of Pearson products and services 2 227 27 English Benchmark: a motivating English test for Intelligent Essay Assessor IEA : a suite of Partner Print Rental: a partnership with campus young learners aged 6-13, which proves students capabilities for evaluating written responses for bookstores and other online retailers that offer a English abilities to parents, monitors learning both content and quality of writing.
IEA can score rent only option of high-demand print products at a lower cost to students.
progress, and ensures teaching targets the right and provide immediate feedback on different skills.
English Benchmark measures students types of written responses, both essay length Pearson Affordable Learning Fund PALF : speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, and short answer, across a variety of content invests patient capital in independently run, through fun and interactive tablet-based subject areas including English Language Arts, for-profit, education start-ups using innovative activities, and uses AI-based automated scoring science, social studies, and text-based maths.
approaches to improving learner outcomes and to provide immediate detailed reports for increasing access at scale.
By investing in new Learning Catalytics: a web-based and interactive teachers and parents that include students educational ventures, Pearson helps to increase student response tool, accessible via strengths, suggestions for improvement, and the quality of education for millions of learners, smartphones, tablets, and laptops, which recommended activities to improve their skills.
identify whats next in the worlds largest encourages team-based learning and allows growth markets, and generate attractive ePen: an assessment scoring tool with various students to take part in a variety of interactive financial returns.
features designed for use by a variety of tasks and thinking.
education stakeholders, including Education Pearson College London: a not-for-profit, Longman English : an app that provides Agency officials, educators, independent alternative degree provider, offering a personalised English language learning for contractors, and Pearson employees.
university education thats powered by learners in China.
GED: GED Testing Service is a joint venture MyLab Mastering: reaching over 10 million between Pearson and the American Council Pearson Institute of Higher Education: Pearson learners globally, MyLab Mastering is a collection on Education, and is part of a programme which Institute of Higher Education Pty Ltd. formerly of online homework, tutorial, and assessment measures proficiency in language arts, maths, Midrand Graduate Institute and CTI Education products designed for personalised learning science and social studies.
It allows learners to Group is registered with the Department of experiences that engage students and improve obtain their high school equivalency credential, Higher Education and Training as a private higher their academic performance.
These teaching be placed in college courses, and even earn education institution under the Higher Education and learning platforms empower instructors to college credit.
In addition to the actual GED Act, 101, of 1997.
We have 12 campuses across reach every student.
For example, in a study test, Pearson VUE also offers a suite of products South Africa.
Our campuses engage in a range conducted at five higher education institutions and services to help people prepare for this of employability initiatives in order to enhance in the US, it was found an increase of 18 attempts assessment, including GED Ready, a predictive students success in the workplace.
We have over on MyLab Math homework was associated with practice test that provides learners with a 8000 students and over 35 different nationalities a fivefold increase in the probability of passing a detailed score report, which outlines areas on our campuses.
We have over 25 qualifications Developmental Math course.
of strength and those that need more attention and programmes across a range of faculties, and gives learners the tools they need to MePro: a complete, blended service solution all equipping students with the skills they need be successful.
for English language learning, which provides a in the workplace.
We use an optimal combination personalised learning experience through of technology-enhanced and traditional learning Global Learning Platform GLP : ultimately courseware & assessment linked to the Global methods, as well as practical application, Pearsons single product platform that will Scale of English GSE, remediation and stretch to prepare students for the technology-driven leverage best-in-class technology to deliver content for personalised learning, professional and fast-changing work environment of the the future generation of global digital learning development for teachers and a parent app.
The GLP is not a product, but it will is a priority for Pearson Institute.
change the way we design and deliver products, MyPedia: an integrated learning programme providing a modern, reliable consumer grade which aims to transform how education is Pearson Test of English Academic experience across all devices in all geographies.
delivered in schools by bringing together all PTE Academic : is an English language test Products built on GLP will deliver improved learning and teaching tools including publishing that enables people to prove their English outcomes and provide a user-centered, globally resources, digital content and assessments to skills when applying to study in English or to consistent, locally optimised, learning experience help improve foundational skills in literacy and migrate to Australia or New Zealand.
The test for our customers.
numeracy in pre-primary to grade 8 children.
is completed on a computer in a secure test centre and measures the candidates speaking, Inclusive Access: provides all US college students Online Program Management OPM : listening, reading, and writing skills.
Unlike with equal and affordable access to course a market in which Pearson is a provider by competitor tests, PTE Academic uses AI-based materials by their first day of class eliminating partnering with colleges and universities around automated scoring to provide a more accurate key hurdles to their academic success.
Inclusive the world to bring their degrees and short and reliable result with most test takers receiving Access can also provide institutions a valuable courses online, helping students gain skills for scores within two days during 2018. tool to help increase retention by lowering the the changing world of work.
Pearson provides withdraw and fail rates caused by the lack of the upfront capital and infrastructure that students preparedness.
By utilising Inclusive institutions need, as well as providing services Access institutions can drive down the overall such as student enrolment and retention, cost of attendance for students by realising course design and development, and market savings in using digital course materials rather research and insights.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 228 Glossary of major products and services Pearson VUE: Pearson VUE is a comprehensive overall retention.
Karen Reilly, Campus Dean In the US Higher Education landscape, computer-based testing company that develops of Learning Support at Valencia College, said we partner and provide products and and delivers millions of certification and that The results of our analysis show that services to a diverse array of educational licensure exams each year for the most highly Smarthinking is an important component in institutions including: regarded exam owners in every industry from our overall academic support programme: it is C ommunity College: sometimes called junior academia and admissions to IT and healthcare.
essential that students have access to tutoring colleges, are two-year schools that provide Pearson VUE is the global leader in exam assistance after hours and on weekends affordable postsecondary education as a development and psychometric services, whenever a learning moment is happening.
programme management tools and services, Speak Out: part of our English Language and diverse delivery options, including online P rivate Not For Profit: a private foundation that Teaching product portfolio, Speak Out is an proctoring and anywhere proctoring, as well is engaged in social or public benefit activities English language course that includes video as a network of 20,000 highly secure global and is registered as such with the IRS.
It derives content from the BBC to engage students and test centres.
its revenue from a small group of donors make teaching easier by exposing students to a without any intention of earning income for Q-Interactive: a digital system for administering wide array of words and accents, familiarising its owners.
All the profits and donations and scoring tests in a one-on-one setting students with English as it is spoken.
By watching of a not-for-profit organisation are used in between an examiner and examinee.
Testing many such videos, students learn proper operating the organisation as per its objectives takes place on two iPads with an app called pronunciation, expand their vocabulary bank i. e. charity or public service.
The simplicity of the system improves and reinforce their English-language confidence.
accuracy and speed in providing real-time 4 Year Public Universities: a university TestNav: an innovative online test delivery scoring and allows for greater flexibility.
offering a Bachelors degree that is platform that is part of Pearsons comprehensive predominantly funded by public means Remote proctoring: in our Pearson VUE assessment solution.
TestNav delivers millions through a national or subnational government, business, remote proctoring is when a proctor of secure, high-stakes state and national tests as opposed to private universities.
and a test-taker are not physically located in the in K12 schools every year.
In most cases, the person takes their and reliable, TestNav provides engaging and F or-Profit Universities: a university that entire exam on a computer while the proctor interactive testing to students who learn and is owned and run by a private organisation watches through an online video camera.
Revel: replaces traditional texts with an engaging The Enabling Programme TEP : one of US School Assessment Business: helps young learning experience that prepares students Pearsons largest business transformation children and students reach their educational for class.
It presents an affordable, seamless projects.
Its aim is to make us a simpler aspirations through meaningful feedback.
blend of author-created digital text, media, and organisation, with globally consistent ways Testing plays an integral role in determining assessment based on learning science.
Students of working across HR, finance, procurement, educator and student success, and we are the can read, practice, and study anywhere, anytime, supply chain, and rights and royalties.
largest provider of educational assessment and on any device.
With assignment and tracking services in the US.
We partner with departments Top Notch: part of our English Language tools, Revel also allows instructors to gauge of education and educators to develop new Teaching product portfolio, Top Notch is a student understanding and engagement with and personalised ways of learning through communicative English course that prepares the material inside and outside the classroom, effective, scalable assessments that measure students to communicate in English with an empowering them to spend class time on 21st century skills and inform instruction emphasis on cultural fluency that enables meaningful instruction.
For example, each throughout the school year.
Examples of the students to navigate the social, travel and additional five hours a student spent on Revel tests we support include: business situations that they will encounter Psychology readings was associated with an in their lives.
Top Notch makes English increase of 2.19 1.10 percentage points on S AT: an entrance exam used by most colleges unforgettable through the right input of unit exams.
and universities to make admissions decisions.
language, intensive practice, and systematic It is a multiple-choice, pencil-and-paper test Sistemas: a complete package of products and recycling using a diverse array of speakers with the purpose to measure a high school services for private and public K12 schools in around the world who have a wide range of students readiness for college, and provide Brazil.
With a single price per student, we provide native and non-native accents.
colleges with one common data point that courseware, educational assistance, professional Wiz.
me: an English language learning app can be used to compare all applicants.
development, management consulting, and within Wizard schools that gives students the marketing support, as well as digital content.
N ational Assessment of Educational opportunity to continue to learn and practice Progress NAEP : The National Assessment Smarthinking: expert online tutoring and their skills outside the classroom.
of Educational Progress NAEP is the largest writing review that gives students 24x7 access to Wizard: a franchise of language-learning schools nationally representative and continuing academic help from live professional educators that offers eight different language courses assessment of what Americas students know and uses a proven, problem-solving approach and uses the international certification, TOEIC, and can do in various subject areas.
to help students learn, gain confidence, as a teaching mode.
TOEIC is the Test of English and handle future assignments on their own.
A CT: The ACT test is the nations most popular for International Communication TOEIC, Complementing Pearson content and technology college entrance exam accepted and valued by an examination for international communication, solutions, Smarthinkings human delivered all universities and colleges in the United States.
which measures the English proficiency of a services have 30 years of experience improving foreigner in everyday situations, and especially student performance, course persistence, and in situations related to the job market.
