Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 142 Consolidated income statement Year ended 31 December 2018 All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Continuing operations Sales 2 4,129 4,513 Cost of goods sold 4 1,943 2,066 Gross profit 2,186 2,447 Operating expenses 4 1,907 2,202 Other net gains and losses 4 230 128 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 44 78 Operating profit 2 553 451 Finance costs 6 91 110 Finance income 6 36 80 Profit before tax 498 421 Income tax 7 92 13 Profit for the year 590 408 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 588 406 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the company during the year expressed in pence per share basic 8 75.6p 49.9p diluted 8 75.5p 49.9p Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 143 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2018 All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Profit for the year 590 408 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 91 158 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 1 104 Currency translation adjustment disposed 4 51 Attributable tax 7 4 9 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 8 13 Attributable tax 7 4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 25 22 175 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 3 7 Attributable tax 7 9 42 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 29 124 155 Total comprehensive income for the year 714 253 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 712 251 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 144 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2018 All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 237 281 Intangible assets 11 3,009 2,964 Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 392 398 Deferred income tax assets 13 60 95 Financial assets derivative financial instruments 16 67 140 Retirement benefit assets 25 571 545 Other financial assets 15 93 77 Trade and other receivables 22 100 103 4,529 4,603 Current assets Intangible assets pre-publication 20 817 741 Inventories 21 164 148 Trade and other receivables 22 1,178 1,110 Financial assets derivative financial instruments 16 1 Financial assets marketable securities 14 8 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 17 568 518 2,728 2,525 Assets classified as held for sale 32 648 760 Total assets 7,905 7,888 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities borrowings 18 674 1,066 Financial liabilities derivative financial instruments 16 36 140 Deferred income tax liabilities 13 136 164 Retirement benefit obligations 25 100 104 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 145 55 Other liabilities 24 155 133 1,246 1,662 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 145 Consolidated balance sheet continued As at 31 December 2018 All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 24 1,400 1,342 Financial liabilities borrowings 18 46 19 Financial liabilities derivative financial instruments 16 23 Current income tax liabilities 72 231 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 20 25 1,561 1,617 Liabilities classified as held for sale 32 573 588 Total liabilities 3,380 3,867 Net assets 4,525 4,021 Equity Share capital 27 195 200 Share premium 27 2,607 2,602 Treasury shares 28 33 61 Capital redemption reserve 11 5 Fair value reserve 19 13 Translation reserve 678 592 Retained earnings 1,039 662 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 4,516 4,013 Non-controlling interest 9 8 Total equity 4,525 4,021 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 146 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December 2018 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2018 200 2,602 61 5 13 592 662 4,013 8 4,021 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 15 net of tax see note 1b 108 108 108 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 net of tax see note 1c 10 10 10 At 1 January 2018 restated 200 2,602 61 5 13 592 544 3,895 8 3,903 Profit for the year 588 588 2 590 Other comprehensive income 8 86 30 124 124 Total comprehensive income 8 86 618 712 2 714 Equity-settled transactions 37 37 37 Tax on equity settled transactions 4 4 4 Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 1 5 6 6 Buyback of equity 6 6 2 2 2 Release of treasury shares 28 28 Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment 2 2 Changes in non-controlling interest Dividends 136 136 1 137 At 31 December 2018 195 2,607 33 11 19 678 1,039 4,516 9 4,525 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2017 205 2,597 79 905 716 4,344 4 4,348 Profit for the year 406 406 2 408 Other comprehensive income expense 13 313 145 155 155 Total comprehensive income expense 13 313 551 251 2 253 Equity-settled transactions 33 33 33 Tax on equity settled transactions Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 5 5 5 Buyback of equity 5 5 300 300 300 Release of treasury shares 18 18 Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment Changes in non-controlling interest 2 2 2 Dividends 318 318 318 At 31 December 2017 200 2,602 61 5 13 592 662 4,013 8 4,021 The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Groups share buyback programme.
The fair value reserve arises on revaluation of other financial assets.
The translation reserve includes exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 147 Consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 31 December 2018 All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash generated from operations 33 547 462 Interest paid 42 89 Tax paid 43 75 Net cash generated from operating activities 462 298 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 30 5 11 Purchase of investments 10 3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 70 82 Purchase of intangible assets 130 150 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 31 83 19 Proceeds from sale of associates 31 18 411 Proceeds from sale of investments 6 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 33 128 Proceeds from sale of liquid resources 10 20 Loans repaid by advance to related parties 46 13 Investment in liquid resources 2 18 Interest received 20 20 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 117 458 Net cash generated from investing activities 211 651 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 27 6 5 Buyback of equity 27 153 149 Proceeds from borrowings 2 Repayment of borrowings 441 1,294 Finance lease principal payments 4 5 Dividends paid to companys shareholders 9 136 318 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 1 Net cash used in financing activities 729 1,759 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 49 16 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 105 794 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 630 1,424 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 525 630 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 16 Leases, effective for annual reporting periods beginning General information on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group will apply IFRS 16 on Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and associates together 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective approach.
the Group are international businesses covering educational Under this approach, the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 courseware, assessments and services, and consumer publishing will be recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance of through its associate interest in Penguin Random House.
retained earnings on 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered office is IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all applicable leases with associated depreciation and interest charges recorded in the income The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange statement together with changes to the classification of cash flows.
and is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition, IFRS 16 requires an intermediate lessor to assess and These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue classify subleases as either a finance lease or an operating lease.
by the Board of Directors on 11 March 2019.
The Group has assessed the impact of adopting IFRS 16 with reference to its existing lease portfolio.
The most significant part of 1a.
Accounting policies the portfolio is property leases, amounting to approximately 750, The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these together with a number of low value vehicle and equipment leases.
consolidated financial statements are set out below.
The lease liability has been measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental Basis of preparation borrowing rate at transition.
The right-of-use asset is measured at These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the its carrying amount as if the standard had been applied since the going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial commencement of the lease, discounted using the incremental Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee borrowing rate at transition.
Where data is not available to enable IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU this measurement to be made, the right-of-use asset is measured and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to at an amount equal to the lease liability.
Transition recognition companies reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting exemptions relating to short-term and low value leases have standards applicable to the Group: there is no difference between been applied as well as practical expedients taken, where available, EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
to simplify the transition process.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Adoption of the new standard will have a material impact on the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of the Group.
It is estimated that on transition the lease liability financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial to be brought on balance sheet will be around 910m with instruments at fair value.
the corresponding right-of-use asset valued at around 435m.
In addition, certain subleases have been reclassified as finance These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years leases resulting in an additional lease receivable of around presented, unless otherwise stated.
215m being brought on balance sheet.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards balance sheet will be a reduction of net assets of around 100m effective 2018 The following standards were adopted in 2018: after taking into account existing liabilities relating to onerous lease provisions and lease incentives.
The impact on the income IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers statement in 2019 is expected to reduce profit before tax by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments approximately 10m increasing operating profit by approximately 20m and increasing net finance costs by approximately 30m : The impact of the adoption of these new standards is set out in the operating lease expense recognised under the existing standard notes 1b and 1c.
IAS 17 being replaced by depreciation and finance costs and finance income.
There will be no impact on the Groups cash and A number of other new pronouncements are also effective from cash equivalents.
1 January 2018 but they do not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Additional disclosure has In June 2015, the IASB issued an exposure draft ED 2015 5 been given where relevant.
Remeasurement on a Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Availability of a Refund from a Defined benefit Plan Proposed 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published Amendments to IAS 19 and IFRIC 14.
The proposed amendments standards that are not yet effective New accounting standards and to IFRIC 14, which may have restricted the Groups ability to interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for recognise a pension asset in respect of pension surpluses in the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Group has elected not to its UK defined benefit plan, are currently on hold with the IASB.
early-adopt these new standards and interpretations.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these new standards is set out below.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 149 IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied retrospectively 1a.
Accounting policies continued to business combinations before the date of transition to IFRS.
Basis of preparation continued Management exercises judgement in determining the classification A number of other new standards and amendments to standards of its investments in its businesses, in line with the following: and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2019, and have not been applied in preparing these 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a material control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, impact on the consolidated financial statements.
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from use of certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires the date that control ceases.
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas requiring a higher degree 3.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions with of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as transactions with are discussed in the relevant accounting policies under the following the owners in their capacity as owners.
Any surplus or deficit arising headings and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate: from disposals to a non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
For purchases from a non-controlling interest, the difference Intangible assets: Goodwill between consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets the carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Taxation Revenue recognition including provisions for returns 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which Employee benefits: Pensions the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and has rights Provisions: Onerous leases to the net assets through contractually agreed sharing of control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant Consolidation influence but not the power to control the financial and operating 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% used to account for business combinations.
Ownership percentage is likely to be the key indicator of investment classification: however, other factors, The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary such as Board representation, may also affect the accounting is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred classification.
Judgement is required to assess all of the qualitative and the equity interest issued by the Group.
The consideration and quantitative factors which may indicate that the Group does, transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting or does not, have significant influence over an investment.
Penguin from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related Random House is the Groups only material associate see note 12 costs are expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line of for further details on the judgements involved in its accounting the income statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and identifiable classification.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised combination are measured initially at their fair values at the at the fair value of consideration transferred.
The determination of fair values often requires significant judgements and the use of estimates, and, for material The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible assets is post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income determined by an independent valuer.
The excess of the statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling reserves is recognised in reserves.
interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates results is previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the recognised as a component of operating profit as these operations identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 30. form part of the core publishing business of the Group and are an See the Intangible assets policy for the accounting policy on integral part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in is recognised directly in the income statement.
a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further On an  basis, the Group recognises any losses unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in these entities.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Property, plant and equipment 1a.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less Consolidation continued depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset 5.
Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint venture and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working The gain or loss resulting from the contribution or sale of a condition for intended use.
Depreciation subsidiary to an associate or a joint venture is recognised in full.
on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to Where such transactions do not involve cash consideration, allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated significant judgements and estimates are used in determining useful lives as follows: the fair values of the consideration received.
Buildings freehold : 2050 years Foreign currency translation Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Plant and equipment: 310 years financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset is greater than its 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are estimated recoverable amount.
translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains Intangible assets and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on or after from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the consideration and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity net investment hedges.
interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of subsidiaries made from the 3.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group date of transition to IFRS to 31 December 2009, goodwill represents companies that have a functional currency different from the the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the presentation currency are translated into the presentation Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on currency as follows: acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill i A ssets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date on acquisition of associates and joint ventures represents the excess of the balance sheet of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions ii Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in iii A ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate associates and joint ventures.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation cost less accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment loss is of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings recognised to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
The Group treats fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
These calculations specific inter-company loan balances, which are not intended to require the use of estimates in respect of forecast cash flows and be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net investment.
discount rates and significant management judgement in respect When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are of CGU and cost allocation.
A description of the key assumptions recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss and sensitivities is included in note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to on sale.
aggregated cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those aggregated cash-generating The principal overseas currency for the Group is the US dollar.
units that are expected to benefit from the business combination The average rate for the year against sterling was $1.34 in which the goodwill arose.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in material business combinations is capitalised at its fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 151 They are remeasured at each balance sheet date by using 1a.
Accounting policies continued market data and the use of established valuation techniques.
Intangible assets continued Any movement in the fair value is immediately recognised in 3.
Internally developed software Internal and external costs finance income or finance costs in the income statement.
incurred during the preliminary stage of developing computer Investments in the equity instruments of other entities are software for internal use are expensed as incurred.
Internal and classified and subsequently measured at fair value through external costs incurred to develop computer software for internal other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value are recorded use during the application development stage are capitalised if in equity in the fair value reserve via other comprehensive income.
the Group expects economic benefits from the development.
On subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair value gains or Capitalisation in the application development stage begins once losses are reclassified from the fair value reserve to retained the Group can reliably measure the expenditure attributable to earnings.
Any dividends received from equity investments classified the software development and has demonstrated its intention as fair value through other comprehensive income are recognised in to complete and use the software.
Internally developed software the P&L unless they represent a return of capital.
is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life Inventories of between three and eight years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include Cost is determined using the weighted average method or an customer lists, contracts and relationships, trademarks and approximation thereof, such as the first in first out FIFO method.
brands, publishing rights, content, technology and software rights.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired in material business overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the combinations are capitalised at their fair value as determined by ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make an independent valuer.
Intangible assets are amortised over their the sale.
Provisions are made for slow-moving and obsolete stock.
estimated useful lives of between two and 20 years, using an amortisation method that reflects the pattern of their consumption.
Royalty advances Advances of royalties to authors are included within trade and other 5.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets represent direct receivables when the advance is paid less any provision required to costs incurred in the development of educational programmes adjust the advance to its net realisable value.
The realisable value and titles prior to their publication.
These costs are recognised as of royalty advances relies on a degree of management estimation in current intangible assets where the title will generate probable determining the profitability of individual author contracts.
If the future economic benefits and costs can be measured reliably.
estimated realisable value of author contracts is overstated, this Pre-publication assets are amortised upon publication of the will have an adverse effect on operating profits as these excess title over estimated economic lives of five years or less, being an amounts will be written off.
estimate of the expected operating lifecycle of the title, with The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an annual a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
detailed management review of the age of the advance, the The assessment of the useful economic life and the recoverability future sales projections for new authors and prior sales history of pre-publication assets involves a significant degree of judgement of repeat authors.
based on historical trends and management estimation of future The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted or effective potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile could result in royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
Royalty advances excess amounts being carried forward as intangible assets that which will be consumed within one year are held in current assets.
would otherwise have been written off to the income statement in Royalty advances which will be consumed after one year are held an earlier period.
Reviews are performed regularly to estimate recoverability of Cash and cash equivalents pre-publication assets.
The carrying amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, part of cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings see note 33. in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Other financial assets Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities Other financial assets are non-derivative financial assets classified of greater than three months do not qualify as cash and cash and measured at estimated fair value.
equivalents and are reported as financial assets.
Movements on these financial assets are classified as cash flows from financing Marketable securities and cash deposits with maturities of greater activities in the cash flow statement where these amounts are than three months are classified and subsequently measured at fair used to offset the borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from value through profit and loss.
investing activities where these amounts are held to generate an investment return.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The accounting treatment is summarised as follows: 1a.
Accounting policies continued Share capital Reporting of gains Typical reason and losses on effective Reporting of gains and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
for designation portion of the hedge losses on disposal Net investment hedge Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new The derivative creates Recognised in other On disposal, the shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, a foreign currency comprehensive accumulated value from the proceeds.
liability which is used income.
of gains and losses Where any Group company purchases the companys equity share to hedge changes in the reported in other value of a subsidiary comprehensive income capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any which transacts in is transferred to the directly attributable incremental costs, net of income taxes, is that currency.
deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders Fair value hedges until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration The derivative Gains and losses If the debt and transforms the interest on the derivative derivative are disposed received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs and profile on debt from are reported in finance of, the value of the the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable fixed rate to floating rate.
income or finance derivative and the debt to the companys equity holders.
Changes in the value of costs.
However, an including the fair value Ordinary shares purchased under a buyback programme are the debt as a result of equal and opposite adjustment are reset changes in interest rates change is made to the to zero.
Any resultant cancelled and the nominal value of the shares is transferred are offset by equal and carrying value of the gain or loss is to a capital redemption reserve.
opposite changes in the debt a fair value recognised in Borrowings value of the derivative.
adjustment with the finance income or When the Groups debt benefit cost reported finance costs.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is proceeds is swapped to floating in finance income or received net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are rates, the contracts used finance costs.
The net subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between are designated as fair result should be a zero the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value value hedges.
charge on a perfectly being recognised in the income statement over the period of the effective hedge.
borrowings using the effective interest method.
Accrued interest is Non-hedge accounted contracts included as part of borrowings.
These are not designated No hedge as hedging instruments.
Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging relationship, Typically these are shortan adjustment is made to its carrying value in the income statement term contracts to convert to reflect the hedged risk.
debt back to fixed rates Where a debt instrument is in a net investment hedge relationship or foreign exchange contracts where a gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are natural offset exists.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Taxation Derivative financial instruments Current tax is recognised at the amounts expected to be paid Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured at each or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives is determined by or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
using market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases For derivatives in a hedge relationship, the currency basis spread of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
Deferred income is excluded from the designation as a hedging instrument and is tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted separately accounted for as a cost of hedging, which is recognised or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are in equity in a cost of hedging reserve.
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised immediately or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
in finance income or costs.
However, derivatives relating to Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable borrowings and certain foreign exchange contracts are designated that future taxable profit will be available against which the as part of a hedging transaction.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures other than where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 153 Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension 1a.
Accounting policies continued plans are recognised as an operating expense in the income Taxation continued statement as incurred.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs of postexcept when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly retirement medical and life assurance benefits are accrued over to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax the period of employment, using a similar accounting methodology is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
as for defined benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
relating to significant other post-retirement obligations are assessed Significant judgement is required in determining the estimates annually by independent qualified actuaries.
in relation to the worldwide provision for income taxes.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or shares granted are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax under the Groups share and option plans is recognised as an determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
employee expense after taking into account the Groups best The Group recognises tax provisions when it is considered probable estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
measured at the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period The provisions are based on managements best judgement of the of the option or share.
The fair value of the options granted is application of tax legislation and best estimates of future settlement measured using an option model that is most appropriate to the amounts see note 7.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters award.
The fair value of shares awarded is measured using the is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such share price at the date of grant unless another method is more differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions appropriate.
Any proceeds received are credited to share capital in the period in which such determination is made.
and share premium when the options are exercised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement Provisions Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present and estimation in determining the amounts to be recognised.
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more In particular, when assessing the extent to which deferred tax likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle assets should be recognised, significant judgement is used when the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions considering the timing of the recognition and estimation is used to are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
determine the level of future taxable income together with any future tax planning strategies see note 13.
The Group recognises a provision for deferred consideration.
Where this is contingent on future performance or a future event, Employee benefits judgement is exercised in establishing the fair value.
Pensions The retirement benefit asset and obligation recognised The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease contracts when in the balance sheet represents the net of the present value of the the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated The calculation of onerous lease provisions involves estimates of annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit potential sublet income, lease terms including rent free periods, method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is void periods, lease incentives and running costs.
determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using yields on high-quality corporate bonds which have terms to The provision is based on the present value of future payments for maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
surplus leased properties under non-cancellable operating leases, net of estimated sub-leasing income.
When the calculation results in a potential asset, the recognition of that asset is limited to the asset ceiling that is the present value Revenue recognition of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from The Groups revenue streams are courseware, assessments and the plan or a reduction in future contributions.
Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in judgement to determine the level of refunds available from the book form and or via access to digital content.
Assessments plan in recognising an asset.
includes test development, processing and scoring services The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit provided to governments, educational institutions, corporations obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes depends and professional bodies.
Services includes the operation of schools, on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount colleges and universities, including sistemas in Brazil, as well as the rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity see note 25. provision of online learning services in partnership with universities and other academic institutions.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity Revenue is recognised in order to depict the transfer of control in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is exchange for those goods and services.
This process begins with the included in the income statement as an operating cost.
Net interest identification of our contract with a customer, which is generally is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit through a master services agreement, customer purchase order, obligation and is presented as finance costs or finance income.
Within each contract, judgement is Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Group has applied IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method 1a.
Accounting policies continued and therefore comparative information has not been restated and Revenue recognition continued continues to be reported under IAS 18 and IAS 11.
The details of applied to determine the extent to which activities within the accounting policies under IAS 18 and IAS 11 are disclosed separately contract represent distinct performance obligations to be delivered if they are different from those under IFRS 15.
A description of the and the total amount of transaction price to which we expect to changes impacting the Group as well as a quantitative impact be entitled.
analysis has been disclosed in note 1b.
The transaction price determined is net of sales taxes, rebates and Additional details on the Groups revenue streams are also included discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Where a in note 3. contract contains multiple performance obligations such as the Leases provision of supplementary materials or online access with Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has textbooks, revenue is allocated on the basis of relative standalone substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as selling prices.
Where a contract contains variable consideration finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement significant estimation is required to determine the amount to of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property which the Group is expected to be entitled.
and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease Revenue is recognised on contracts with customers when or as payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges performance obligations are satisfied which is the period or the to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
point in time where control of goods or services transfer to the The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, customer.
Judgement is applied to determine first whether are included in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element control passes over time and if not, then the point in time at which of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the control passes.
Where revenue is recognised over time judgement lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the is used to determine the method which best depicts the transfer of remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Where an input method is used significant estimation is plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated required to determine the progress towards delivering the over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of Revenue from the sale of books is recognised net of a provision for ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating anticipated returns.
This provision is based primarily on historical leases by the lessee.
Payments made under operating leases net of return rates, customer buying patterns and retailer behaviours any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income including stock levels see note 22.
If these estimates do not reflect statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
actual returns in future periods then revenues could be understated Dividends or overstated for a particular period.
When the provision for returns is remeasured at each reporting date to reflect changes in estimates, Final dividends are recorded in the Groups financial statements a corresponding adjustment is also recorded to revenue.
in the period in which they are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
The Group may enter into contracts with another party in addition to our customer.
In making the determination as to whether Discontinued operations revenue should be recognised on a gross or net basis, the contract A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business with the customer is analysed to understand which party controls that represents a separate major line of business or geographical the relevant good or service prior to transferring to the customer.
area of operations that has been disposed of or meets the criteria This judgement is informed by facts and circumstances of the to be classified as held for sale.
contract in determining whether the Group has promised to provide Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement the specified good or service or whether the Group is arranging for as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
the transfer of the specified good or service, including which party is responsible for fulfilment, has discretion to set the price to the Assets and liabilities held for sale customer and is responsible for inventory risk.
On certain contracts, Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and stated at the where the Group acts as an agent, only commissions and fees lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if it is highly receivable for services rendered are recognised as revenue.
probable that the carrying amount will be recovered principally Any third party costs incurred on behalf of the principal that through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets included in revenue.
classified as held for sale.
Amounts relating to non-current assets Income from recharges of freight and other activities which are and liabilities held for sale are classified as discontinued operations incidental to the normal revenue-generating activities is included in the income statement where appropriate.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 155 Where the Group expects to have no future obligation based on 1a.
Accounting policies continued these redemption rates, revenue has historically been recognised Trade receivables immediately for this portion of the sale.
Under IFRS 15, where Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision for bad and the Group previously recognised this breakage element on doubtful debts.
Following the adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018, provisions subscriptions, revenue is now recognised evenly over the period for bad and doubtful debts are based on the expected credit loss of use.
Where breakage relates to sales of tests or vouchers, model.
The simplified approach is used with the expected loss revenue is now recognised when the underlying tests are delivered.
allowance measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected This revised treatment in respect of breakage has primarily affected credit losses.
In 2017, trade receivables are also stated after provision the school and higher education businesses in North America and for anticipated future sales returns also see Revenue recognition resulted in higher deferred income at adoption on 1 January 2018. policy and note 1b.
Online Program Management OPM marketing: Historically the OPM business recognised revenue for the pre-semester costs of 1b.
Change of accounting policy: IFRS 15 marketing and recruitment as a separate performance obligation from course delivery during the semester i. e. revenue was The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts recognised in line with the marketing costs incurred.
Under IFRS 15, with Customers at 1 January 2018 and applied the modified revenue has been recognised on a straight-line basis over the retrospective approach.
Comparatives for 2017 have not been semester with no revenue recognised up front for pre-semester restated and the cumulative impact of adoption has been recruitment and marketing costs based on managements recognised as a decrease to retained earnings with a corresponding judgement under the new standards requirements assessing the decrease in net assets at 1 January 2018 as follows: start of the Groups contract and determining the Groups 2018 performance obligations.
This revised treatment of pre-semester All figures in millions 1 January costs only affects the OPM business in North America and has Retained earnings resulted in a lower contract related asset balance at adoption on Unexercised customer rights or breakage 103 1 January 2018.
Online Program Management OPM marketing 38 Administration fees: This relates to non-refundable up front Administration fees 2 administration fees charged to customers which do not relate to the Commissions 1 transfer of a promised good or service to the customer.
Rather these Income tax 34 fees are charged to cover internal costs, such as registration fees Total impact at 1 January 2018 108 for testing candidate exams.
Historically administration fees have been recognised in revenue up-front when charged.
Under IFRS 15, such fees have been deferred and recognised over the period over Current assets which services are provided as they do not relate to a specific Inventories 12 performance obligation.
This revised treatment primarily affects Trade and other receivables 133 the UK Assessments business and has resulted in higher deferred Assets classified as held for sale 31 income at adoption on 1 January 2018.
Non-current liabilities Commissions: This relates to incremental costs of obtaining Deferred income tax liabilities 16 customer contracts, such as sales incentive plans or sales Current liabilities commissions specifically linked to obtaining new contracts.
Trade and other liabilities 215 Historically such commissions have been charged to the profit Liabilities classified as held for sale 85 and loss account as incurred.
Under IFRS 15, sales commissions in respect of customer transactions with an accounting period of Total impact at 1 January 2018 108 greater than one year have been capitalised and amortised over IFRS 15 has had an impact on retained earnings in four areas that accounting period, using practical expedients permissible as outlined below.
There was no net impact on any associate under the new standard.
This revised treatment affects the investments of the Group.
US Assessments business and resulted in a higher contract related asset upon adoption on 1 January 2018.
Unexercised customer rights or breakage : The Group sells rights to future performance to customers which may go unexercised.
While the customer has paid for future performance, usage is at the customers discretion and those rights may expire prior to usage, or never be used.
The Group maintains historical customer data to understand usage patterns over time i. e. redemption rates.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1b.
Change of accounting policy: IFRS 15 continued In addition to the changes above, IFRS 15 also requires that the Groups provision for sales returns is reclassified.
This provision was previously netted off in trade receivables and from 1 January 2018 this is now shown in two parts as a separate sales return liability within trade and other liabilities and an inventory returns asset within inventory.
The effect on transition was to increase trade and other receivables by 170m, increase trade and other liabilities by 182m and inventory by 12m.
In addition, held for sale assets and liabilities were both increased by 13m.
The impact of adoption on the results for 2018 is outlined below.
2018 Amounts pre Transition In period Amounts as All figures in millions IFRS 15 adjustment adjustment reported Sales 4,120 9 4,129 Operating profit 544 9 553 Profit before tax 489 9 498 Income tax 94 2 92 Profit for the year 583 7 590 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 130 6 124 Total comprehensive income for the year 713 1 714 Current assets Inventories 154 12 2 164 Trade and other receivables 1,058 133 13 1,178 Assets classified as held for sale 630 31 13 648 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 154 16 2 136 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 1,193 215 8 1,400 Liabilities classified as held for sale 507 85 19 573 Net assets 4,632 108 1 4,525 Had the Group been applying IFRS 15 during 2017, it is estimated that both sales and profit before tax would have been 2m higher for the full year, with the balance sheet impact at the beginning and end of the year being similar.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 157 1c.
Change of accounting policy: IFRS 9 The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments at 1 January 2018 and applied the new rules in accordance with the transitional provisions.
Comparatives for 2017 have not been restated.
The Group has assessed the impact of adopting IFRS 9 and the only material adjustment is an increase in the provision for losses against trade debtors which was reflected as an adjustment to retained earnings at 1 January 2018 as shown below.
2018 All figures in millions 1 January Retained earnings Provision for losses against trade debtors 13 Income tax 3 Total impact at 1 January 2018 10 Non-current assets Deferred income tax assets 3 Current assets Trade and other receivables 12 Assets classified as held for sale 1 Total impact at 1 January 2018 10 The adjustment arises from adoption of the expected credit loss IFRS 9 also introduced a new, simpler hedge accounting model with model for impairments under IFRS 9.
The adoption of this model a principles-based approach designed to align the accounting result requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on with the economic hedging strategy.
The Group previously used fair expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses, value hedge relationships to hedge interest rate risk and currency as is the case under IAS 39.
Although there is a transition impact risk on its bond borrowings and also used net investment hedging from adoption of the new model there was no material impact on relationships to hedge currency re-translation risk on its overseas profit before tax for 2018. assets.
The Group has confirmed that its previous hedge relationships continue to qualify as hedges under IFRS 9 in 2018.
Under IFRS 9, the Groups equity financial investments continue to be recognised at fair value and the Group has elected to take The following table shows the original classification and the option to recognise all movements in fair value in other measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities under comprehensive income FVOCI.
Gains or losses realised on the IAS 39 and the new classification and measurement categories subsequent sale of these financial assets FVOCI investments are under IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018.
The effect of adopting IFRS 9 no longer recycled through the profit and loss account, but are on the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities relates instead reclassified from the FVOCI reserve to retained earnings.
solely to the new impairment requirements as shown in the There was one small disposal of these assets during 2018 resulting previous table, all other carrying values remained the same.
Original classification and measurement under IAS 39 New classification and measurement under IFRS 9 Financial assets Investments in unlisted securities Available for sale fair value Fair value through OCI Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost Marketable securities Available for sale fair value Fair value through profit or loss Derivative financial instruments used for hedging Derivatives in a hedge relationship fair value Fair value hedging instrument Other derivative financial instruments Held for trading fair value Fair value through profit or loss Trade receivables Loans and receivables amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments used for hedging Derivatives in a hedge relationship fair value Fair value hedging instrument Other derivative financial instruments Held for trading fair value Fair value through profit or loss Trade payables Other liabilities amortised cost Other financial liabilities amortised cost Liability to purchase own shares Other liabilities amortised cost Other financial liabilities amortised cost Bank loans and overdrafts Other liabilities amortised cost Other financial liabilities amortised cost Finance lease liabilities Other liabilities amortised cost Other financial liabilities amortised cost Bonds Other liabilities amortised cost Other financial liabilities amortised cost Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 158 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information The primary segments for management and reporting are geographies as outlined below.
In addition, the Group separately discloses the results from the Penguin Random House associate.
The chief operating decision-maker is the Pearson executive.
North America Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in the US and Canada.
Core Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in more mature markets including UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and North Africa.
Growth Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in emerging markets including Brazil, India, South Africa, Hispano-America, Hong Kong and China, and the Middle East.
For more detail on the services and products included in each business segment refer to the strategic report.
2018 Penguin North Random All figures in millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,784 806 539 4,129 Adjusted operating profit 362 57 59 68 546 Cost of major restructuring 78 16 8 102 Intangible charges 72 8 19 14 113 Other net gains and losses 4 226 230 UK pension GMP equalisation 8 8 Operating profit 216 25 266 46 553 Finance costs 6 91 Finance income 6 36 Profit before tax 498 Income tax 7 92 Profit for the year 590 Segment assets 4,366 1,975 536 636 7,513 Joint ventures 12 Associates 12 5 387 392 Total assets 4,366 1,980 536 387 636 7,905 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 4 1 1 46 44 Capital expenditure 10, 11 135 25 36 196 Pre-publication investment 20 234 90 64 388 Depreciation 10 41 12 13 66 Amortisation 11, 20 344 92 89 525 Included in the North America segment above is 60m in pre-publication investment and 67m in amortisation relating to assets held for sale.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 159 2.
Segment information continued 2017 Penguin North Random All figures in millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,929 815 769 4,513 Adjusted operating profit 394 50 38 94 576 Cost of major restructuring 60 11 8 79 Intangible charges 89 12 37 28 166 Other net gains and losses 3 35 96 128 Impact of US tax reform 8 8 Operating profit 242 27 28 154 451 Finance costs 6 110 Finance income 6 80 Profit before tax 421 Income tax 7 13 Profit for the year 408 Segment assets 4,116 1,914 667 793 7,490 Joint ventures 12 3 3 Associates 12 4 3 388 395 Total assets 4,120 1,917 670 388 793 7,888 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 5 1 1 71 78 Capital expenditure 10, 11 162 35 43 240 Pre-publication investment 20 218 84 59 361 Depreciation 10 56 13 21 90 Amortisation 11, 20 348 103 110 561 There were no material inter-segment sales in either 2018 or 2017. resulted in a charge for onerous leases of 91m partially offset by profit from the sale of property of 81m.
The costs of this For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted restructuring programme are significant enough to exclude from operating profit as shown in the above tables, see p222-225 the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the Financial key performance indicators.
Adjusted operating profit is shown in the above tables as it is Intangible charges These represent charges in respect of intangible the key financial measure used by management to evaluate the assets acquired through business combinations and the direct costs performance of the Group and allocate resources to business of acquiring those businesses.
These charges are excluded as they segments.
The measure also enables investors to more easily, reflect past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the and consistently, track the underlying operational performance current year performance of the Group.
Intangible amortisation of the Group and its business segments over time by separating charges in 2018 were 113m compared to a charge of 166m in 2017. out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal transactions, major restructuring programmes Other net gains and losses These represent profits and losses on and certain other items that are also not representative of the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial underlying performance, which are explained below and assets and are excluded from adjusted operating profit as they reconciled in note 8. distort the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis.
Other net gains of 230m in 2018 relate to the sale of the Cost of major restructuring In May 2017, the Group announced a Wall Street English language teaching business WSE, realising a restructuring programme, to run between 2017 and 2019, to drive gain of 207m, the disposal of the Groups equity interest in UTEL, significant cost savings.
This programme began in the second the online University partnership in Mexico, realising a gain of 19m, half of 2017 and net costs incurred were 79m in 2017 and 102m and various other smaller disposal items for a net gain of 4m.
in 2018 and relate to delivery of cost efficiencies in the enabling Other net gains of 128m in 2017 relate to the sale of the test functions and the US Higher Education Courseware business preparation business in China which resulted in a profit on sale of together with further rationalisation of the property and supplier 44m and the part sale of the Groups share in Penguin Random portfolio.
The restructuring costs in 2018 relate predominantly to House which resulted in a profit of 96m and other smaller disposal staff redundancies and the net cost of property rationalisation.
items for a net loss of 12m see note 31.
Included in the property rationalisation in 2018 is the impact of the consolidation of the Groups property footprint in London which Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 160 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information continued UK pension GMP equalisation In 2018, also excluded is the impact Segment assets, excluding corporate assets, consist of property, of adjustments arising from clarification of guaranteed minimum plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, pension GMP equalisation legislation in the UK as this relates to deferred taxation and other financial assets and exclude cash historical circumstances see note 25. and cash equivalents and derivative assets.
Corporate assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and Impact of US tax reform In 2017, as a result of US tax reform, the derivative financial instruments.
Capital expenditure comprises Groups share of profit from associates was adversely impacted additions to property, plant and equipment and software by 8m.
This amount was excluded from adjusted operating profit see notes 10 and 11. as it is considered to be a transition adjustment that is not expected Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired to recur in the near future.
through business combinations were nil 2017: nil see note 30.
Corporate costs are allocated to business segments on an appropriate basis depending on the nature of the cost and therefore the total segment result is equal to the Group operating profit.
The Group operates in the following main geographic areas: Sales Non-current assets All figures in millions 2018 2017 2018 2017 UK 377 384 900 796 Other European countries 246 262 143 128 US 2,627 2,770 2,162 2,247 Canada 126 126 250 240 Asia Pacific 455 643 146 151 Other countries 298 328 137 184 Total 4,129 4,513 3,738 3,746 Sales are allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
This does not differ materially from the location where the order is received.
The geographical split of non-current assets is based on the subsidiarys country of domicile.
This is not materially different to the location of the assets.
Non-current assets comprise property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and trade and other receivables.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 161 3.
Revenue from contracts with customers The following tables analyse the Groups revenue streams.
Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in book form and or via access to digital content.
Assessments includes test development, processing and scoring services provided to governments, educational institutions, corporations and professional bodies.
Services includes the operation of schools, colleges and universities, including sistemas in Brazil as well as the provision of online learning services in partnership with universities and other academic institutions.
2018 North All figures in millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 378 172 127 677 Higher Education Courseware 1,042 87 57 1,186 English Courseware 16 58 102 176 1,436 317 286 2,039 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments 332 247 23 602 Clinical Assessments 140 45 185 Professional and English Certification 344 150 64 558 816 442 87 1,345 Services School Services 288 2 47 337 Higher Education Services 244 40 29 313 English Services 5 90 95 532 47 166 745 Total 2,784 806 539 4,129 2017 North All figures in millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 394 171 139 704 Higher Education Courseware 1,146 93 63 1,302 English Courseware 20 60 102 182 1,560 324 304 2,188 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments 355 256 23 634 Clinical Assessments 146 46 192 Professional and English Certification 341 138 60 539 842 440 83 1,365 Services School Services 274 5 54 333 Higher Education Services 253 34 32 319 English Services 12 296 308 527 51 382 960 Total 2,929 815 769 4,513 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 162 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Revenue from contracts with customers continued The Group derived revenue for the year to 31 December 2018 from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time in the following major product lines: North All figures in millions America Core Growth Total Courseware Products transferred at a point in time sale or return 718 313 197 1,228 Products transferred at a point in time other 35 35 Products and services transferred over time 718 4 54 776 1,436 317 286 2,039 Assessments Products transferred at a point in time 146 65 6 217 Products and services transferred over time 670 377 81 1,128 816 442 87 1,345 Services Products transferred at a point in time 26 38 64 Products and services transferred over time 532 21 128 681 532 47 166 745 Total sales 2,784 806 539 4,129 a.
Nature of goods and services While payment for these goods and services generally occurs at the start of these arrangements, the length of time between The following is a description of the nature of the Groups payment and delivery of the performance obligations is generally performance obligations within contracts with customers broken short-term in nature or the reason for early payment relates to down by revenue stream, along with significant judgements and reasons other than financing, including customers securing a estimates made within each of those revenue streams.
vendor in a longer-term arrangement or the transfer of goods or Courseware services is at the discretion of the customer.
For these reasons and the use of the practical expedient on short-term financing, Revenue is generated from customers through the sales of print significant financing components are not recognised within and digital courseware materials to schools, bookstores, and direct Courseware transactions.
Goods and services may be sold separately or purchased together in bundled packages.
The goods and Revenue from the sale of physical books is recognised at a point services included in bundled arrangements are considered distinct in time when control passes.
This is generally at the point of performance obligations, except for where Pearson provides both a shipment when title passes to the customer, when the Group has a licence of intellectual property and an on-going hosting service.
present right to payment and the significant risks and rewards of As the licence of intellectual property is only available with the ownership have passed to the customer.
Revenue from physical concurrent hosting service, the licence is not treated as a distinct books sold through the direct print rental method is recognised performance obligation separate from the hosting service.
over the rental period, as the customer is simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefits of this rental service through the The transaction price is allocated between distinct performance passage of time.
obligations on the basis of their relative standalone selling prices.
Revenue from the sale of digital courseware products is recognised In determining the transaction price, variable consideration exists on a straight-line basis over the subscription period, unless hosted in the form of discounts and anticipated returns.
Discounts reduce by a third party or representative of a downloadable product, in the transaction price on a given transaction.
A provision for which case Pearson has no on-going obligation and recognises anticipated returns is made based primarily on historical return revenue when control transfers as the customer is granted access rates, customer buying patterns and retailer behaviours including to the digital product.
If these estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods then revenues could be understated Revenue from the sale of off-the-shelf software is recognised on or overstated for a particular period.
Variable consideration as delivery or on installation of the software where that is a condition described above is determined using the expected value approach.
In certain circumstances, where installation is complex, revenue is recognised when the customer has completed their acceptance procedures.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 163 As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on 3.
Revenue from contracts with customers continued the extent of progress towards completion of the performance a.
Nature of goods and services continued obligation.
The selection of the method to measure progress Assessments towards completion requires judgement and is based on the nature of the services provided.
Revenue is recognised on a percentage Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual completion basis calculated using the proportion of the total arrangements related to large-scale assessment delivery, such estimated costs incurred to date.
Percentage of completion is used as contracts to process qualifying tests for individual professions to recognise the transfer of control of services provided as these and government departments, and is recognised as performance services are not provided evenly throughout the testing cycle and occurs.
Under these arrangements, while the agreement spans for involve varying degrees of effort during the term.
multiple years, the contract duration has been determined to be each testing cycle based on contract structure, including clauses Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss regarding termination.
While in some cases the customer may first becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined to be the have the ability to terminate during the term for convenience, amount by which estimated total costs of the contract exceed the significant financial or qualitative barriers exist limiting the estimated total revenues that will be generated.
potential for such terminations in the middle of a testing cycle.
In Assessments contracts driven primarily by transactions directly Within each testing cycle, a variety of service activities are to end users, Pearsons main obligation to the customer involves performed such as test administration, delivery, scoring, test delivery and scoring.
Test delivery and scoring are defined as a reporting, item development, operational services, and programme single performance obligation delivered over time whether the test management.
While each of these service activities is capable of is subsequently manually scored or digitally scored on the day of being distinct, they are not treated as distinct in the context of the the assessment.
Customers may also purchase print and digital customer contract as Pearson provides an integrated managed supplemental materials.
Print products in this revenue stream are service offering and these activities are accounted for together as recognised at a point in time when control passes to the customer one comprehensive performance obligation.
Recognition of digital revenue will occur based on the extent of Pearsons on-going hosting obligation.
Within each testing cycle, the transaction price may contain both fixed and variable amounts.
Variable consideration within these Services transactions primarily relates to expected testing volumes to be Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual delivered in the cycle.
The assumptions, risks and uncertainties arrangements related to large-scale educational service delivery inherent to long-term contract accounting can affect the amounts to academic institutions, such as schools and higher education and timing of revenue and related expenses reported.
Under these arrangements, while an agreement consideration is measured using the expected value method, may span for multiple years, the contract duration has been except where amounts are contingent upon a future events determined to be each academic period based on the structure of occurrence, such as performance bonuses.
Such event-driven contracts, including clauses regarding termination.
While in some contingency payments are measured using the most likely amount cases the customer may have the ability to terminate during the approach.
To the extent a higher degree of uncertainty exists term for convenience, significant financial or qualitative barriers regarding variable consideration, these amounts are excluded exist limiting the potential for such terminations in the middle of an from the transaction price and expensed when the uncertainty is academic period.
The academic period for this customer base is reasonably removed.
normally an academic year for schools and a semester for higher Customer payments are generally defined in the contract through education universities.
a payment schedule, which may require customer acceptance Within each academic period, while a variety of services are for services rendered.
Pearson has a history of providing provided such as programme development, student acquisition, satisfactory services which are accepted by the customer.
While a education technology and student support services.
While each of delay between rendering of services and payment may exist, these services is capable of being distinct, they are not distinct in the payment terms are within 12 months and the Group has elected context of the customer contract as Pearson provides an integrated to use the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and not identify managed service offering and these activities are accounted for a significant financing component on these transactions.
together as a comprehensive performance obligation.
Revenue is recognised for Assessment contracts over time as the customer is benefiting as performance takes place through a continuous transfer of control to the customer.
This continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contracts which may allow the customer to terminate for convenience, compensate us for work performed to date, and take possession of work in process.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Revenue from contracts with customers continued b. Disaggregation of revenue a.
Nature of goods and services continued Services continued The tables in notes 2 and 3 show revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated by operating segment, geography and Where Services are provided to university customers, volumes and revenue stream.
These disaggregation categories are appropriate as transaction price is fixed at the start of the semester.
Where Services they represent the key groupings used in managing and evaluating are provided to School customers, the transaction price may contain underlying performance of each of the businesses.
The categories both fixed and variable amounts which require estimation during also reflect groups of similar types of transactional characteristics, the academic period.
Estimation is required where consideration is among similar customers, with similar accounting conclusions.
based upon average enrolments or other metrics which are not known at the start of the academic year.
Variable consideration is c. Contract balances measured using the expected value method.
To the extent a higher Transactions within the Courseware revenue stream generally entail degree of uncertainty exists regarding variable consideration, these customer billings at or near the contracts inception and accordingly amounts are excluded from the transaction price and recognised Courseware deferred income balances are primarily related to when the uncertainty is reasonably removed.
subscription performance obligations to be delivered over time.
Customer payments are generally defined in the contract as Transactions within the Assessments and Services revenue streams occurring shortly after invoicing.
Where there is a longer payment generally entail customer billings over time based on periodic term offered to a customer through a payment schedule, payment intervals, progress towards milestones or enrolment census dates.
terms are within 12 months and the Group has elected to use the As the performance obligations within these arrangements are practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and not identify a significant delivered over time, the extent of accrued income or deferred financing component on these transactions.
income will ultimately depend upon the difference between Revenue is recognised for Service contracts over time as the revenue recognised and billings to date.
customer is benefiting as performance takes place through a Refer to note 22 for opening and closing balances of accrued continuous transfer of control to the customer.
Refer to note 24 for opening and closing balances of transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in deferred income.
Revenue recognised during the period from the contracts which may allow the customer to terminate for changes in deferred income was driven primarily by the release convenience, compensate us for work performed to date, of revenue over time from digital subscriptions.
and take possession of work in process.
d. Contract costs As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on The Group capitalises incremental costs to obtain contracts with the extent of progress towards completion of the performance customers where it is expected these costs will be recoverable.
The selection of the method to measure progress Incremental costs to obtain contracts with customers are towards completion requires judgement and is based on the considered those which would not have been incurred if the nature of the products or services provided.
Within the contract had not been obtained.
For the Group, these costs relate comprehensive service obligation, the timing of services primarily to sales commissions.
The Group has elected to use the occurs relatively evenly over each academic period and as such, practical expedient as allowable by IFRS 15 whereby such costs will time elapsed is used to recognise the transfer of control to the be expensed as incurred where the expected amortisation period customer on a straight-line basis.
Where the amortisation period is greater than Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss one year, these costs are amortised over the contract term on a first becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined to be systematic basis consistent with the transfer of the underlying the amount by which estimated total costs of the contract exceed goods and services within the contract to which these costs relate, the estimated total revenues that will be generated.
which will generally be on a ratable basis.
Impairment of capitalised contract costs was nil in 2018.
In cases of optional or add-on purchases, institutions may purchase physical goods priced at their standalone value, which are The Group does not recognise any material costs to fulfil contracts accounted for separately and recognised at the point in time with customers as these types of activities are governed by other when control passes to the customer upon shipment.
Refer to note 22 for further details of opening and closing balances of these costs reflected within deferred contract costs.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 165 3.
Revenue from contracts with customers continued e. Remaining transaction price The below table depicts the remaining transaction price on unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations from contracts with customers as at 31 December 2018.
Total remaining Deferred Committed transaction 2021 Sales income sales price 2019 2020 and later Courseware Products transferred at a point in time sale or return 1,228 1 1 1 Products transferred at a point in time other 35 Products and services transferred over time 776 679 8 687 272 131 284 Assessments Products transferred at a point in time 217 Products and services transferred over time 1,128 196 402 598 420 173 5 Services Products transferred at a point in time 64 Products and services transferred over time subscriptions 310 17 17 13 3 1 Products and services transferred over time other ongoing performance obligations 371 19 145 164 162 1 1 Total 4,129 912 555 1,467 868 308 291 Committed sales amounts are equal to the transaction price from contracts with customers excluding those amounts previously recognised as revenue and amounts currently recognised in deferred income.
The total of committed sales and deferred income is equal to the remaining transaction price.
Time bands represented above represent the expected timing of when the remaining transaction price will be recognised as revenue.
Operating expenses All figures in millions 2018 2017 By function: Cost of goods sold 1,943 2,066 Operating expenses Distribution costs 88 84 Selling, marketing and product development costs 759 896 Administrative and other expenses 1,039 1,207 Restructuring costs 90 79 Other income 69 64 Total net operating expenses 1,907 2,202 Other net gains and losses 230 128 Total 3,620 4,140 Included in other income is service fee income from Penguin Random House of 3m 2017: 3m.
Included in administrative and other expenses are research and efficacy costs of 14m 2017: 14m.
In addition to the restructuring costs shown above, there were major restructuring costs in relation to associates of 12m 2017: nil.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.
Operating expenses continued An analysis of major restructuring costs is as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 By nature: Product costs 12 15 Employee costs 56 11 Depreciation and amortisation 1 13 Property and facilities 5 24 Technology and communications 1 2 Professional and outsourced services 9 12 General and administrative costs 16 2 Total restructuring operating expenses 90 79 Share of associate restructuring 12 Total 102 79 The 2017-2019 restructuring programme was announced in May 2017, began in the second half of 2017 and is expected to drive significant cost savings.
The costs of this programme have been excluded from adjusted operating profit so as to better highlight the underlying performance see note 8.
In 2018, property and facilities costs include gains on the disposal of properties sold as part of the restructuring programme.
All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 By nature: Royalties expensed 236 246 Other product costs 516 564 Employee benefit expense 5 1,637 1,805 Contract labour 161 152 Employee-related expense 115 127 Promotional costs 233 229 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 66 90 Amortisation of intangible assets pre-publication 20 338 338 Amortisation of intangible assets software 11 88 85 Amortisation of intangible assets other 11 99 138 Property and facilities 147 202 Technology and communications 192 218 Professional and outsourced services 396 322 Other general and administrative costs 85 140 Costs capitalised to intangible assets 390 324 Other net gains and losses 230 128 Other income 69 64 Total 3,620 4,140 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 167 4.
Operating expenses continued During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditors: All figures in millions 2018 2017 The audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 4 4 The audit of the companys subsidiaries 2 2 Total audit fees 6 6 Audit-related and other assurance services 1 1 Other non-audit services 1 Total other services 1 2 Total non-audit services 1 2 Total 7 8 Reconciliation between audit and non-audit service fees is shown below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Group audit fees including fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 6 6 Non-audit fees 1 2 Total 7 8 Fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are allocated between fees payable for the audits of consolidated and subsidiary accounts.
Included in non-audit fees is audit related work in relation to disposal transactions and other assurance work related to the audit of the Groups efficacy programme.
Employee information All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Employee benefit expense Wages and salaries including termination costs 1,421 1,567 Social security costs 112 130 Share-based payment costs 26 37 33 Retirement benefits defined contribution plans 25 56 57 Retirement benefits defined benefit plans 25 23 19 Other post-retirement medical benefits 25 12 1 Total 1,637 1,805 The details of the emoluments of the Directors of Pearson plc are shown in the report on Directors remuneration.
Average number employed 2018 2017 Employee numbers North America 14,113 16,295 Core 5,192 5,291 Growth 4,521 8,268 Other 496 485 Total 24,322 30,339 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 168 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Net finance costs All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Interest payable on financial liabilities at amortised cost and associated derivatives 42 99 Net foreign exchange losses 36 Finance costs associated with transactions 1 6 Derivatives not in a hedge relationship 7 5 Derivatives in a hedge relationship 5 Finance costs 91 110 Interest receivable on financial assets at amortised cost 18 20 Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits 25 11 3 Net foreign exchange gains 44 Derivatives not in a hedge relationship 6 12 Derivatives in a hedge relationship 1 1 Finance income 36 80 Net finance costs 55 30 Analysed as: Net interest payable reflected in adjusted earnings 24 79 Other net finance income costs 31 49 Total net finance costs 55 30 Included in interest receivable is 1m 2017: 1m of interest receivable from related parties.
There was a net movement of nil on fair value hedges in 2018 2017: 1m, comprising a gain of 4m 2017: gain of 37m on the underlying bonds, offset by a loss of 4m 2017: loss of 36m on the related derivative financial instruments.
For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8.
Income tax All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Current tax Credit charge in respect of current year 92 121 Adjustments in respect of prior years 34 2 Total current tax credit charge 126 123 Deferred tax In respect of temporary differences 6 96 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 28 14 Total deferred tax charge credit 13 34 110 Total tax credit charge 92 13 The adjustments in respect of prior years in both 2018 and 2017 primarily arise from revising the previous years reported tax provision to reflect the tax returns subsequently filed.
This results in a change between deferred and current tax as well as an absolute benefit to the total tax charge.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 169 7.
Income tax continued The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK tax rate as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Profit before tax 498 421 Tax calculated at UK rate 2018: 19%, 2017: 19.25% 94 81 Effect of overseas tax rates 28 15 Joint venture and associate income reported net of tax 8 15 Intra-group financing benefit 25 26 Movement in provisions for tax uncertainties 111 49 Impact of US tax reform 1 Net expense not subject to tax 29 39 Benefit from change in US tax accounting treatment 25 Gains and losses on sale of businesses not subject to tax 77 8 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and credits 1 Unrecognised tax losses 9 16 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 12 Total tax credit charge 92 13 UK 37 36 Overseas 55 23 Total tax credit charge 92 13 Tax rate reflected in earnings 18.5 % 3.1% Included in net expense not subject to tax are foreign taxes not the potential disallowance of intra-group recharges.
The Group is creditable, the tax impact of share-based payments and other currently under audit in a number of countries, and the timing of expenses not deductible.
any resolution of these audits is uncertain.
Of the balance of 181m, Factors which may affect future tax charges include changes 57m relates to 2014 and earlier and is mostly under audit.
In most in tax legislation, transfer pricing regulations, the level and mix countries tax years up to and including 2014 are now statute barred of profitability in different countries, and settlements with from examination by tax authorities.
Of the remaining balance, tax authorities.
If relevant enquiry windows pass with no audit, management The movement in provisions for tax uncertainties primarily reflects believes it is reasonably possible that provision levels will reduce releases due to the expiry of relevant statutes of limitation and the by an estimated 50m within the next 12 months.
However the tax reassessment of historical tax positions.
The current tax liability of authorities may take a different view from management and the 72m 2017: 231m includes 181m 2017: 280m of provisions for final liability may be greater than provided.
For items currently tax uncertainties principally in respect of a number of issues in the under audit if tax authorities are successful, liabilities could US, the UK and China.
The issues provided for include the allocation increase by 25m 2017: 25m.
between territories of proceeds of historical business disposals and Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 170 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.
Income tax continued The tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings is calculated as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Profit before tax 498 421 Adjustments: Cost of major restructuring 102 79 Other net gains and losses 230 128 Intangible charges 113 166 Other net finance costs income 31 49 UK pension GMP equalisation 8 Impact of US tax reform 8 Adjusted profit before tax 522 497 Total tax credit charge 92 13 Adjustments: Tax benefit on cost of major restructuring 37 26 Tax benefit charge on other net gains and losses 31 20 Tax benefit on intangible charges 18 85 Tax benefit charge on other net finance income costs 6 9 Tax benefit on UK pension GMP equalisation 2 Impact of US tax reform 1 Tax amortisation benefit on goodwill and intangibles 29 39 Adjusted income tax credit charge 27 55 Tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings 5.2 % 11.1% For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8.
The tax benefit charge recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4 9 Fair value gain on other financial assets 4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 9 42 5 37 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 171 8.
Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares to take account of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and adjusting the profit attributable, if applicable, to account for any tax consequences that might arise from conversion of those shares.
All figures in millions 2018 2017 Earnings for the year 590 408 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings attributable to equity holders of the company 588 406 Weighted average number of shares millions 778.1 813.4 Effect of dilutive share options millions 0.6 0.3 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 778.7 813.7 Earnings per share Basic 75.6p 49.9p Diluted 75.5p 49.9p Adjusted of the consolidation of the Groups property footprint in London which resulted in a charge for onerous leases of 91m partially For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted offset by profit from the sale of property of 81m.
The costs of this measures, see p222-225 Financial key performance indicators.
restructuring programme are significant enough to exclude from See note 2 for details of specific items excluded from or included the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the in adjusted operating profit in 2018 and 2017. underlying performance see note 4.
In order to show results from operating activities on a consistent Other net gains and losses These represent profits and losses on basis, an adjusted earnings per share is presented.
The Groups the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial definition of adjusted earnings per share may not be comparable assets and are excluded from adjusted earnings as they distort the with other similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis.
Adjusted earnings is a non-GAAP non-statutory financial measure Intangible charges These represent charges in respect of intangible and is included as it is a key financial measure used by management assets acquired through business combinations and the direct costs to evaluate the performance of the Group and allocate resources of acquiring those businesses.
These charges are excluded as they to business segments.
The measure also enables investors to reflect past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational current year performance of the Group.
Intangible amortisation performance of the Group and its business segments over time charges in 2018 were 113m compared to a charge of 166m in 2017. by separating out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal transactions, major restructuring Other net finance income costs These include finance costs programmes and certain other items that are also not in respect of retirement benefits, finance costs of deferred representative of underlying performance.
consideration and foreign exchange and other gains and losses.
Finance income relating to retirement benefits is excluded as Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as adjusted earnings management does not believe that the consolidated income divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue on statement presentation under IAS 19 reflects the economic an undiluted basis.
The following items are excluded from or substance of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Finance costs included in adjusted earnings: associated with transactions are excluded as these relate to future Cost of major restructuring In May 2017, the Group announced a earn-outs or acquisition expenses and are not part of the underlying restructuring programme, to run between 2017 and 2019, to drive financing.
Foreign exchange and other gains and losses are excluded significant cost savings.
This programme began in the second half as they represent short-term fluctuations in market value and are of 2017 and net costs incurred were 79m in 2017 and 102m in subject to significant volatility.
Other gains and losses may not be 2018 and relate to delivery of cost efficiencies in the enabling realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the functions and the US Higher Education Courseware business related instruments to maturity.
In 2018 and 2017, the foreign together with further rationalisation of the property and supplier exchange gains and losses largely relate to foreign exchange portfolio.
The restructuring costs in 2018 relate predominantly to differences on unhedged US dollar and euro loans, cash and staff redundancies and the net cost of property rationalisation.
Included in the property rationalisation in 2018 is the impact Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 172 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted continued UK pension GMP equalisation In 2018, also excluded is the impact of adjustments arising from clarification of guaranteed minimum pension GMP equalisation legislation in the UK as this relates to historical circumstances see note 25.
Impact of US tax reform In 2017, as a result of US tax reform, the Groups share of profit from associates was adversely impacted by 8m.
This amount was excluded from adjusted earnings as it is considered to be a transition adjustment that is not expected to recur in the near future.
Tax Tax on the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings.
Where relevant the Group also excludes the benefit from recognising previously unrecognised pre-acquisition and capital losses.
As a result of US tax reform in 2017, the reported tax charge on a statutory basis includes a benefit from the revaluation of deferred tax balances to the reduced federal rate of 5m and a repatriation tax charge of 6m.
This amount has been excluded from adjusted earnings as it is considered to be a transition adjustment that is not expected to recur in the near future.
The tax benefit from tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is added to the adjusted income tax charge as this benefit more accurately aligns the adjusted tax charge with the expected rate of cash tax payments.
Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interest for the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings.
The following tables reconcile the statutory income statement to the adjusted income statement.
2018 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance UK pension Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income GMP amortisation income All figures in millions statement restructuring losses charges costs equalisation benefit statement Operating profit 553 102 230 113 8 546 Net finance costs 55 31 24 Profit before tax 498 102 230 113 31 8 522 Income tax 92 37 31 18 6 2 29 27 Profit for the year 590 65 261 95 25 6 29 549 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings 588 65 261 95 25 6 29 547 Weighted average number of shares millions 778.1 778.1 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 778.7 778.7 Earnings per share basic 75.6p 70.3p Earnings per share diluted 75.5p 70.2p 2017 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income Impact of US amortisation income All figures in millions statement restructuring losses charges costs tax reform benefit statement Operating profit 451 79 128 166 8 576 Net finance costs 30 49 79 Profit before tax 421 79 128 166 49 8 497 Income tax 13 26 20 85 9 1 39 55 Profit for the year 408 53 108 81 40 9 39 442 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings 406 53 108 81 40 9 39 440 Weighted average number of shares millions 813.4 813.4 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 813.7 813.7 Earnings per share basic 49.9p 54.1p Earnings per share diluted 49.9p 54.1p Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 173 9.
Dividends All figures in millions 2018 2017 Final paid in respect of prior year 12.0p 2017: 34.0p 93 277 Interim paid in respect of current year 5.5p 2017: 5.0p 43 41 136 318 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 13.0p per share which will absorb an estimated 102m of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 10 May 2019 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 5 April 2019.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Land and Plant and course of All figures in millions buildings equipment construction Total Cost At 1 January 2017 398 560 20 978 Exchange differences 20 29 2 51 Additions 26 40 24 90 Disposals 13 34 47 Disposal through business disposal 11 5 16 Reclassifications 5 8 13 Transfer to intangible assets 11 11 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 55 2 57 At 31 December 2017 330 527 29 886 Exchange differences 11 14 1 26 Additions 32 22 12 66 Disposals 75 97 172 Reclassifications 19 8 11 Transfer to intangible assets 11 11 Transfer to intangible assets pre-publication 2 2 At 31 December 2018 317 458 18 793 Assets in Land and Plant and course of All figures in millions buildings equipment construction Total Depreciation At 1 January 2017 229 406 635 Exchange differences 12 23 35 Charge for the year 35 55 90 Disposals 9 26 35 Disposal through business disposal 6 3 9 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 40 1 41 At 31 December 2017 197 408 605 Exchange differences 5 11 16 Charge for the year 20 46 66 Disposals 34 97 131 Reclassifications 7 7 At 31 December 2018 195 361 556 Carrying amounts At 1 January 2017 169 154 20 343 At 31 December 2017 133 119 29 281 At 31 December 2018 122 97 18 237 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 174 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10.
Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation expense of 18m 2017: 23m has been included in the income statement in cost of goods sold and 48m 2017: 67m in operating expenses.
The Group leases certain equipment under a number of finance lease agreements.
The net carrying amount of leased plant and equipment included within property, plant and equipment was 7m 2017: 9m.
Intangible assets Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Cost At 1 January 2017 2,341 798 974 353 211 600 5,277 Exchange differences 148 46 74 26 6 50 350 Additions internal development 133 133 Additions purchased 17 17 Disposals 23 23 Disposal through business disposal 4 9 19 27 59 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11 11 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 163 4 2 27 21 34 251 At 31 December 2017 2,030 882 889 281 184 489 4,755 Exchange differences 74 32 39 2 1 144 Additions internal development 124 124 Additions purchased 6 6 Disposals 94 18 12 33 157 Disposal through business disposal 2 2 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11 11 Transfer from assets classified as held for sale 7 7 At 31 December 2018 2,111 959 910 267 184 457 4,888 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 175 11.
Intangible assets continued Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Amortisation At 1 January 2017 461 555 209 198 412 1,835 Exchange differences 30 43 13 4 36 126 Charge for the year 85 77 18 3 40 223 Disposals 21 21 Disposal through business disposal 2 8 18 22 50 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 16 19 34 70 At 31 December 2017 493 580 180 178 360 1,791 Exchange differences 23 26 1 2 10 56 Charge for the year 88 59 14 2 24 187 Disposals 92 18 12 33 155 Disposal through business disposal At 31 December 2018 512 647 181 178 361 1,879 Carrying amounts At 1 January 2017 2,341 337 419 144 13 188 3,442 At 31 December 2017 2,030 389 309 101 6 129 2,964 At 31 December 2018 2,111 447 263 86 6 96 3,009 Goodwill Other intangible assets The goodwill carrying value of 2,111m relates to acquisitions Other intangibles acquired include content, technology and completed after 1 January 1998.
Prior to 1 January 1998 all software rights.
goodwill was written off to reserves on the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets are valued separately for each acquisition and For acquisitions completed between 1 January 1998 and the primary method of valuation used is the discounted cash 31 December 2002, no value was ascribed to intangibles other flow method.
The majority of acquired intangibles are amortised than goodwill which was amortised over a period of up to 20 years.
using an amortisation profile based on the projected cash flows On adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2003, the Group chose not to underlying the acquisition date valuation of the intangible asset, restate the goodwill balance and at that date the balance was frozen which generally results in a larger proportion of amortisation being i. e. amortisation ceased.
If goodwill had been restated, then a recognised in the early years of the assets life.
The Group keeps significant value would have been ascribed to other intangible the expected pattern of consumption under review.
assets, which would be subject to amortisation, and the carrying value of goodwill would be significantly lower.
For acquisitions Amortisation of 18m 2017: 17m is included in the income completed after 1 January 2003, value has been ascribed to other statement in cost of goods sold and 169m 2017: 206m in intangible assets which are amortised.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 176 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued Other intangible assets continued The range of useful economic lives for each major class of intangible asset excluding goodwill and software is shown below: 2018 Class of intangible asset Useful economic life Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 3-20 years Acquired trademarks and brands 2-20 years Acquired publishing rights 5-20 years Other intangibles acquired 2-20 years The expected amortisation profile of acquired intangible assets is shown below: 2018 One to Six to More than All figures in millions five years ten years ten years Total Class of intangible asset Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 187 66 10 263 Acquired trademarks and brands 49 27 10 86 Acquired publishing rights 5 1 6 Other intangibles acquired 77 19 96 Impairment tests for cash-generating units CGUs containing goodwill Impairment tests have been carried out where appropriate as described below.
Goodwill was allocated to CGUs, or an aggregation of CGUs, where goodwill could not be reasonably allocated to individual business units.
Impairment reviews were conducted on these CGUs including Growth given the recent write down of goodwill.
The recoverable amount for each unit exceeds its carrying value, therefore there is no impairment in 2018.
The carrying value of the goodwill in each of the CGUs is summarised below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 North America 930 1,013 Core 701 641 Growth includes Brazil, China, India and South Africa Pearson VUE 480 376 Total 2,111 2,030 The recoverable amount of each aggregated CGU is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment.
Other than goodwill there are no intangible assets with indefinite lives.
The goodwill is generally denominated in the currency of the relevant cash flows and therefore the impairment review is not materially sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 177 11.
Intangible assets continued The key assumptions used by management in setting the financial Key assumptions budgets for the initial five-year period were as follows: For the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs of disposal of the CGUs, management has used an income approach based on Forecast sales growth rates Forecast sales growth rates are present value techniques.
The calculations use cash flow projections based on past experience adjusted for the strategic direction and based on financial budgets approved by management covering near-term investment priorities within each CGU.
Key assumptions a five-year period, managements best estimate about future include growth in Online Program Management, Virtual Schools and developments and market assumptions.
The fair value less costs Professional Certification, stabilisation in UK Qualifications and US of disposal measurement is categorised as Level 3 on the fair value Assessments, and ongoing pressures in the US Higher Education hierarchy.
The key assumptions used by management in the fair Courseware market.
The five-year sales forecasts use average value less costs of disposal calculations were: nominal growth rates between 2% and 3% for mature markets and between 1 % and 12% for emerging markets with high inflation.
Discount rates The discount rate is based on the risk-free rate for government bonds, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the Operating profits Operating profits are forecast based on historical increased risk in investing in equities.
The risk premium adjustment experience of operating margins, adjusted for the impact of changes is assessed for each specific CGU.
The average post-tax discount to product costs and cost-saving initiatives, including the impact of rates range from 7.9% to 15.8%.
Discount rates are lower for those the implementation of our cost efficiency programme.
businesses which operate in more mature markets with low Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of operating cash inflation and higher for those operating in emerging markets flow to operating profit.
Management forecasts cash conversion with higher inflation.
rates based on historical experience.
Perpetuity growth rates A perpetuity growth rate of 2.0% was used for cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period for CGUs operating in mature markets.
This perpetuity growth rate is a conservative rate and is considered to be lower than the long-term historical growth rates of the underlying territories in which the CGU operates and the long-term growth rate prospects of the sectors in which the CGU operates.
CGU growth rates between 3.0% and 6.5% were used for cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period for CGUs operating in emerging markets with high inflation.
These growth rates are also below the long-term historical growth rates in these markets.
Sensitivities Impairment testing for the year ended 31 December 2018 has identified the following CGUs, or groups of CGUs, as being sensitive to changes in assumptions.
The table below shows the headroom at 31 December 2018 and the cumulative impact of changes in the assumptions used in calculating the fair value.
1% decrease in Headroom at 31 1% increase in 5% decrease in annual 10% decrease in perpetuity growth All figures in millions December 2018 average discount rate contribution annual contribution rate Headroom impairment North America 356 128 27 301 167 Core 210 67 84 42 83 Brazil 20 8 3 14 4 The above analysis is performed at the exchange rates used in the Groups strategic planning process.
CGU contribution excludes fixed costs and corporate overheads.
The goodwill related to the Brazil CGU was fully impaired in prior years, and the intangibles related to the Brazil CGU are amortised over their useful economic life.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 178 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Associates 392 395 Joint ventures 3 Total 392 398 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Associates 43 77 Joint ventures 1 1 Total 44 78 Investment in associates The Group has the following material associates: Principal place Ownership Nature of Measurement of business interest relationship method Penguin Random House Ltd UK Global 25% See below Equity Penguin Random House LLC US 25% See below Equity On 1 July 2013, Penguin Random House was formed, upon the The shareholder agreement includes protective rights for completion of an agreement between Pearson and Bertelsmann Pearson as the minority shareholder, including rights to dividends.
to merge their respective trade publishing companies, Penguin Management considers ownership percentage, Board composition and Random House, with the parent companies owning 47% and the additional protective rights, and exercises judgement to and 53% of the combined business respectively.
On 5 October determine that Pearson has significant influence over Penguin 2017, Pearson sold a 22% stake in Penguin Random House to Random House and Bertelsmann has the power to direct the Bertelsmann, retaining a 25% share.
Pearson owns its 25% interest relevant activities and therefore control.
Following the transaction in Penguin Random House via 25% interests in each of the two in 2017 the assessment of significant influence has not changed.
entities listed in the table above.
Despite the separate legal Penguin Random House does not have a quoted market price.
structures of the two Penguin Random House entities, Pearson regards Penguin Random House as one combined global business.
Consequently, Pearson discloses Penguin Random House as one single operating segment and presents disclosures related to its interests in Penguin Random House on a combined basis.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 179 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Investment in associates continued The summarised financial information of the material associate is detailed below: 2018 2017 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in millions House House Assets Non-current assets 1,043 1,048 Current assets 1,929 1,758 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 1,104 859 Current liabilities 1,546 1,579 Net assets 322 368 Sales 2,775 2,693 Profit for the year 185 171 Other comprehensive income expense 13 60 Total comprehensive income 198 111 Dividends received from associate in relation to profits 67 146 Re-capitalisation dividends received from associate 50 312 The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the associate, adjusted for fair value and similar adjustments.
The tax on Penguin Random House LLC is settled by the partners.
For the purposes of clear and consistent presentation, the tax has been shown in the associate line items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, recording the Groups share of profit after tax consistently for the Penguin Random House associates.
A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying value of the material associate is shown below: 2018 2017 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in millions House House Opening net assets 368 1,386 Exchange differences 18 18 Profit for the year 185 171 Other comprehensive income expense 13 60 Dividends, net of tax paid 262 1,167 Tax adjustments in relation to disposals 56 Closing net assets 322 368 Share of net assets 80 92 Goodwill 307 296 Carrying value of associate 387 388 Information on other individually immaterial associates is detailed below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Loss profit for the year 3 7 Total comprehensive expense income 3 7 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 180 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Transactions with material associates From time to time the Group loans funds to Penguin Random House The Group also has a current asset receivable of 17m 2017: 19m which are unsecured and interest is calculated based on market from Penguin Random House and a current liability payable of rates.
The amount outstanding at 31 December 2018 was nil nil 2017: 3m arising from the provision of services.
The loans are provided under a working capital facility other income note 4 is 3m 2017: 3m of service fees.
In addition, and fluctuate during the year.
The loan outstanding at 31 December the Group received a further re-capitalisation dividend of 50m in 2017 was repaid in its entirety in January 2018.
April 2018, which was triggered by the Groups decision to sell a 22% stake in Penguin Random House in 2017.
Investment in joint ventures Information on joint ventures, all of which are individually immaterial, is detailed below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Profit for the year 1 1 Total comprehensive income 1 1 13.
Deferred income tax All figures in millions 2018 2017 Deferred income tax assets 60 95 Deferred income tax liabilities 136 164 Net deferred income tax 76 69 Substantially all of the deferred income tax assets are expected to Deferred tax assets of 43m 2017: 75m have been recognised in be recovered after more than one year.
countries that reported a tax loss in either the current or preceding year.
The majority arises in Brazil in respect of tax deductible Deferred income tax assets and liabilities shall be offset when there goodwill.
It is considered more likely than not that there will be is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets sufficient future taxable profits to realise these assets.
with current income tax liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
At 31 December 2018, The recognition of the deferred income tax assets is supported the Group has unrecognised deferred income tax assets of 31m by managements forecasts of the future profitability of the 2017: 32m in respect of UK losses, 28m 2017: 18m in respect relevant countries.
of US losses and approximately 90m 2017: 86m in respect of losses in other territories.
The UK losses are capital losses.
The US losses relate to state taxes and therefore have expiry periods of between five and 20 years.
Other deferred tax assets of 12m 2017: 12m have not been recognised.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 181 13.
Deferred income tax continued The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows: Retirement Trading Returns benefit Deferred Goodwill and All figures in millions losses provisions obligations revenue intangibles Other Total Deferred income tax assets liabilities At 1 January 2017 22 35 37 117 295 69 15 Exchange differences 2 3 4 8 19 8 6 Income statement charge benefit 11 6 7 9 118 1 110 Disposal through business disposal 3 3 Tax benefit in other comprehensive income 84 5 89 Transfer to assets liabilities classified as held for sale 4 73 3 8 66 At 31 December 2017 9 34 44 27 155 60 69 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 15 see note 1b 15 1 16 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 see note 1c 3 3 Exchange differences 1 1 6 16 5 13 Income statement charge benefit 11 4 21 20 34 14 42 Disposal through business disposal 16 16 Tax charge in other comprehensive income 9 9 Tax charge in equity 4 4 At 31 December 2018 20 31 55 68 205 65 76 Other deferred income tax items include temporary differences in respect of share-based payments, provisions, depreciation and royalty advances.
In addition, 98m 2017: 68m asset and 2m liability of deferred income tax assets are included in assets classified as held for sale with a charge of 8m in 2018 relating to assets and liabilities held for sale.
Classification of financial instruments The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets, and their carrying values, is as follows: 2018 2017 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Fair value Total Derivatives Derivatives Total hedging Financial carrying Available held for in hedge Loans and carrying All figures in millions Notes FVOCI FVTPL instrument assets value for sale trading relationship receivables value Investments in unlisted securities 15 93 93 77 77 Cash and cash equivalents 17 568 568 518 518 Cash and cash equivalents within assets classified as held for sale 32 127 127 Marketable securities 8 8 Derivative financial instruments 16 4 64 68 3 137 140 Trade receivables 22 904 904 760 760 Trade receivables within assets classified as held for sale 49 49 22 22 Total financial assets 93 4 64 1,521 1,682 85 3 137 1,427 1,652 The carrying value of the Groups financial assets is equal to, or approximately equal to, the market value.
Following the adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018 the terminology used to describe financial assets has been changed see note 1c.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 182 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14.
Classification of financial instruments continued The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial liabilities, together with their carrying values and market values, is as follows: 2018 2017 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Fair value Other Total Total Derivatives Derivatives Total Total hedging financial carrying market held for in hedge Other carrying market All figures in millions Notes FVTPL instrument liabilities value value trading relationship liabilities value value Derivative financial instruments 16 59 59 59 140 140 140 Trade payables 24 311 311 311 265 265 265 Trade payables within liabilities classified as held for sale 22 22 22 20 20 20 Liability to purchase own shares 24 151 151 151 Bank loans and overdrafts 18 43 43 43 15 15 15 Other borrowings due within one year 18 3 3 3 4 4 4 Borrowings due after more than one year 18 674 674 663 1,066 1,066 1,070 Total financial liabilities 59 1,053 1,112 1,101 140 1,521 1,661 1,665 Following the adoption of IFRS 9 in 2018 the terminology used to describe financial liabilities has been changed see note 1c.
Fair value measurement As shown above, the Groups derivative assets and liabilities, unlisted securities and marketable securities are held at fair value.
Financial instruments that are measured subsequently to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The Groups derivative assets valued at 68m 2017: 140m and derivative liabilities valued at 59m 2017: 140m are classified as level 2.
The Groups marketable securities valued at nil 2017: 8m are classified as level 2.
The Groups investments in unlisted securities are valued at 93m 2017: 77m and are classified as level 3.
The following table analyses the movements in level 3 fair value remeasurements: 2018 2017 Investments Investments in unlisted in unlisted All figures in millions securities securities At beginning of year 77 65 Exchange differences 4 4 Acquisition of investments 13 3 Fair value movements 7 13 Disposal of investments 8 At end of year 93 77 The fair value of the investments in unlisted securities is determined by reference to the financial performance of the underlying asset, recent funding rounds and amounts realised on the sale of similar assets.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 183 15.
Other financial assets All figures in millions 2018 2017 At beginning of year 77 65 Exchange differences 4 4 Acquisition of investments 13 3 Fair value movements 7 13 Disposal of investments 8 At end of year 93 77 Other financial assets comprise unlisted securities of 93m 2017: 77m that are classified at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The assets, which are not held for trading, relate to the Groups interests in new and innovative educational ventures across the world.
These are strategic investments and the Group considers the classification as FVOCI to be more relevant.
None of the investments are individually significant to the financial statements.
In 2018, equities held at a fair value of 8m 2017: nil were disposed.
The cumulative gain on disposal was nil and 2m was recycled from the fair value reserve to retained earnings.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19.
The Groups outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2018 2017 Gross notional Gross notional All figures in millions amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives in a fair value hedge relationship 404 13 799 23 Interest rate derivatives not in a hedge relationship 362 3 429 3 Cross-currency rate derivatives in a hedge relationship 577 51 35 1,522 114 140 FX forwards and collars in a hedge relationship 434 24 Other derivatives not in a hedge relationship 473 1 Total 2,250 68 59 2,750 140 140 Analysed as expiring: In less than one year 771 1 23 Later than one year and not later than five years 795 22 1 1,638 65 95 Later than five years 684 45 35 1,112 75 45 Total 2,250 68 59 2,750 140 140 The Groups fixed rate USD debt is held as fixed rate instruments at were held at an average GBP USD rate of 1.39.
These derivatives are amortised cost.
in designated net investment hedging relationships.
Outstanding contracts on the cross currency swaps at 31 December 2018 were The majority of the Groups fixed rate euro debt is converted to a held at an average EUR GBP rate of 0.79.
These derivatives are in floating rate exposure using interest rate and cross-currency swaps.
designated fair value hedging relationships.
The Group receives interest under its euro debt related swap contracts to match the interest on the bonds ranging from a receipt At the end of 2018, the currency split of the mark-to-market values of 1.375% on its euro 2025 notes to 1.875% on its euro 2021 notes of rate derivatives, including the exchange of principal on cross and, in turn, pays either a floating US dollar or sterling variable rates currency rate derivatives, was US dollar 185 m, sterling 215 m of GBP Libor 0.81% and US Libor 1.36%.
and euro 432m 2017: US dollar 869 m, sterling 12m and euro 857m.
GBP and USD Interest rate swaps are subsequently used to fix an element of the interest charge.
The all-in rates including the The Groups portfolio of rate derivatives is diversified by maturity, spread above Libor that the Group pays are between 2.2% and counterparty and type.
Natural offsets between transactions within 3.8%.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had interest rate swap the portfolio and the designation of certain derivatives as hedges contracts to fix 361m of debt and a further 256m of outstanding significantly reduce the risk of income statement volatility.
The fixed rate bonds bringing the total fixed rate debt to 617m.
sensitivity of the portfolio to changes in market rates is set out in These pay fixed interest rate derivatives are not in designated note 19. hedging relationships.
Additionally the group uses FX derivatives including forwards, collars and cross currency swaps to create synthetic USD debt as a hedge of its USD assets and to achieve certainty of USD currency conversion rates, in line with the Groups FX hedging policy.
Outstanding contracts as at 31 December 2018 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 184 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Fair value hedges A foreign currency exposure arises from foreign exchange fluctuations on translation of the Groups euro debt into GBP.
The group uses Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps as The hedged risk is the risk of changes in the GBPEUR spot rate that Fair value hedges of the Groups euro issued debt.
will result in changes in the value of the euro debt when translated Interest rate exposure arises from movements in the fair value of the into GBP.
The hedged items are a portion of the Groups euro bonds.
Groups euro debt attributable to movements in euro interest rates.
The hedging instruments are floating to floating cross currency The hedged risk is the change the euro bonds fair value attributable swaps which creates an exposure to euro strengthening against to interest rate movements.
The hedged items are the Groups euro GBP within the hedge item.
The final exchange on the cross currency bonds which are issued at a fixed rate.
The hedging instruments are swap creates an exposure to euro weakening against GBP.
fixed to floating euro interest rate swaps where the Group receives As the critical terms of the cross currency swap match the bonds fixed interest payments and pays three month Euribor.
there is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and As the critical terms of the interest rate swaps match the bonds such the value of the hedged item move in the opposite direction as a there is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and result of movements in the EURGBP exchange rate.
The hedge the value of the hedged item move in the opposite direction as a ratio is 100%.
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness are a reduction or result of movements in the zero coupon Euribor curve.
The hedge modification in the hedged item or a material change in the credit ratio is 100%.
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness are a reduction or risk of swap counterparties.
modification in the hedged item or a material change in the credit At December 2018, the Group held the following instruments to risk of swap counterparties.
hedge exposures to changes in interest rates and foreign currency risk associated with borrowings.
Change in fair value of hedging instrument Carrying amount of used to determine Nominal amounts of All figures in millions hedging instruments hedge ineffectiveness hedging instruments Interest rate risk Financial assets derivative financial instruments 13 7 404 Currency risk Financial assets derivative financial instruments 51 3 404 The amounts at the reporting date relating to items designated as hedge items were as follows: Accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on Change in fair value of the hedged item hedged item used to Line item in profit or Carrying amount of included in the determine hedge Hedge loss that includes All figures in millions hedged items carrying amount ineffectiveness ineffectiveness hedge ineffectiveness Interest rate risk Financial liabilities borrowings 416 9 7 n a Currency risk Financial liabilities borrowings 416 n a 3 n a Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation It is expected that the change in value of each of these items will mirror each other as there is a clear and direct economic A foreign currency exposure arises from the translation of the relationship between the hedge and the hedged item in the Groups net investments in its subsidiaries which have USD and euro hedge relationship.
The hedged risk is the risk of changes in the GBPUSD and GBPEUR spot rates that will result in changes in the Hedge ineffectiveness would arise if the value of the hedged value of the groups net investment in its USD and euro assets when items fell below the value of the hedging instruments however translated into GBP.
The hedged items are a portion of the Groups this is unlikely as the value of the groups assets denominated assets which are denominated in USD and euro.
The hedging in USD and euro are significantly greater than the proposed net instruments are debt and derivative financial instruments, including investment programme.
Cross Currency Swaps, FX Forwards and FX Collars which creates an exposure to USD and euro weakening against GBP.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 185 16.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments were as follows: Change in value of hedging instrument Nominal amounts Hedging Hedge ineffectiveness Carrying amount of used to determine of hedging gains losses recognised in All figures in millions hedged instruments hedge ineffectiveness instruments recognised in OCI profit or loss Financial liabilities derivative financial instruments 59 22 607 22 Financial liabilities borrowings 256 10 256 10 In addition to the above, 15m of hedging losses were recognised in OCI in relation to derivative financial instruments that matured during the year.
Offsetting arrangements Derivative financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting arrangements are as follows: 2018 2017 Gross Gross Net derivative Gross Gross Net derivative derivative derivative assets derivative derivative assets All figures in millions assets liabilities liabilities assets liabilities liabilities Counterparties in an asset position 67 44 23 103 78 25 Counterparties in a liability position 1 15 14 37 62 25 Total as presented in the balance sheet 68 59 9 140 140 All of the Groups derivative financial instruments are subject to enforceable netting arrangements with individual counterparties, allowing net settlement in the event of default of either party.
Offset arrangements in respect of cash balances are described in note 17.
Counterparty exposure from all derivatives is managed, together with that from deposits and bank account balances, within credit limits that reflect published credit ratings and by reference to other market measures e. g. market prices for credit default swaps to ensure that there is no significant risk to any one counterparty.
The Group has no material embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cash at bank and in hand 533 361 Short-term bank deposits 35 157 568 518 Cash at bank and in hand within assets classified as held for sale 127 568 645 Short-term bank deposits are invested with banks and earn interest at the prevailing short-term deposit rates.
At the end of 2017, a significant proportion of the renminbi cash related to assets held for sale.
Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that approximate to their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 568 518 Cash and cash equivalents within assets classified as held for sale 127 Bank overdrafts 43 15 525 630 The Group has certain cash pooling arrangements in US dollars, sterling, euro and Canadian dollars where both the company and the bank have a legal right of offset.
Offsetting amounts are presented gross in the balance sheet.
Offset arrangements in respect of derivatives are shown in note 16.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 186 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18.
Financial liabilities borrowings The Groups current and non-current borrowings are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Non-current 1.875% euro notes 2021 nominal amount 250m: 2017 nominal amount 500m 233 463 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 nominal amount $117m 92 85 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 nominal amount $94m 74 69 1.375% euro notes 2025 nominal amount 300m: nominal amount 500m 273 445 Finance lease liabilities 2 4 674 1,066 Current Due within one year or on-demand: Bank loans and overdrafts 43 15 Finance lease liabilities 3 4 46 19 Total borrowings 720 1,085 Included in the non-current borrowings above is 6m of accrued interest 2017: 10m.
Included in the current borrowings above is nil of accrued interest 2017: nil.
The maturities of the Groups non-current borrowings are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Between one and two years 1 3 Between two and five years 400 549 Over five years 273 514 674 1,066 The carrying amounts and market values of borrowings are as follows: 2018 2017 Effective Carrying Market Effective Carrying Market All figures in millions interest rate value value interest rate value value Bank loans and overdrafts n a 43 43 n a 15 15 1.875% euro notes 2021 2.04% 233 233 2.04% 463 467 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 3.94% 92 91 3.94% 85 87 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 3.36% 74 71 3.36% 69 67 1.375% euro notes 2025 1.44% 273 266 1.44% 445 445 Finance lease liabilities n a 5 5 n a 8 8 720 709 1,085 1,089 The market values stated above are based on clean market prices at the year end or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies.
The effective interest rates above relate to the underlying debt instruments.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings before the effect of derivatives see notes 16 and 19 for further information on the impact of derivatives are denominated in the following currencies: All figures in millions 2018 2017 US dollar 188 172 Sterling 23 1 Euro 506 911 Other 3 1 720 1,085 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 187 18.
Financial liabilities borrowings continued The Group has $1.75bn 1.4bn of undrawn capacity on its committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2018 2017: $1.75bn 1.3bn undrawn.
In addition, there are a number of short-term facilities that are utilised in the normal course of business.
All of the Groups borrowings are unsecured.
In respect of finance lease obligations, the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The maturity of the Groups finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments Not later than one year 3 4 Later than one year and not later than two years 1 3 Later than two years and not later than three years 1 1 Later than three years and not later than four years Later than four years and not later than five years Later than five years Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease liabilities 5 8 The present value of the Groups finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Not later than one year 3 4 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 4 Later than five years 5 8 The carrying amounts of the Groups lease obligations approximate their fair value.
Financial risk management The Groups approach to the management of financial risks together Capital risk with sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments is set out below.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: Treasury policy To maintain a strong balance sheet and a solid investment Pearsons treasury policies set out the groups principles for grade rating: addressing key financial risks including capital risk, liquidity risk, To continue to invest in the business: foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk and sets out measurable targets for each.
The Audit Committee receive quarterly reports To have a sustainable and progressive dividend policy, and: incorporating compliance with these measurable targets and To return surplus cash to our shareholders where appropriate.
review and approve the treasury policies annually.
The Group aims to maintain net debt at a level less than 1.5 times The treasury function is permitted to use derivatives where their EBITDA before the adoption of IFRS 16 and less than 2.2 times use reduces a risk or allows a transaction to be undertaken more EBITDA after the adoption of IFRS16.
This is consistent with a solid cost effectively.
Derivatives permitted include swaps, forwards investment grade rating assuming no material deterioration in and collars to manage foreign exchange and interest rate risk, with trading performance and provides comfortable headroom foreign exchange swap and forward contracts the most commonly against covenants.
Speculative transactions are not permitted.
The Group is currently rated BBB negative outlook with Standard and Poors and Baa2 stable outlook with Moodys.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 188 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued Net debt The Groups net debt position is set out below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 568 645 Marketable securities 8 Derivative financial instruments 9 Bank loans and overdrafts 43 15 Bonds 672 1,062 Finance lease liabilities 5 8 Net debt 143 432 Interest and foreign exchange rate management Overseas profits are converted to sterling to satisfy sterling cash outflows such as dividends at the prevailing spot rate at the time The Groups principal currency exposure is to the US dollar which of the transaction.
To the extent the Group has sufficient sterling, represents more than 60% of the Groups sales.
US dollars may be held as dollar cash to provide a natural offset The Groups long-term debt is primarily held in US dollars to provide to the Groups debt or to satisfy future US dollar cash outflows.
a natural hedge of this exposure, which is achieved through issued The Group does not have significant cross border foreign exchange US dollar debt or converting euro debt to US dollars using crosstransactional exposures.
currency swaps, forwards and collars.
As at 31 December 2018, 617m of the Groups debt is held at fixed rates 2017: 674m, As at 31 December 2018, the sensitivity of the carrying value of the with 103m held at floating rates 2017: 411m, partially offset Groups financial instruments to fluctuations in interest rates and by US dollar cash balances which attract floating rate interest.
exchange rates is as follows: See note 16 for details of the Groups hedging programme which addresses interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Impact of 1% Impact of 1% Impact of 10% Impact of 10% Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in All figures in millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling Investments in unlisted securities 93 7 9 Cash and cash equivalents 568 36 45 Derivative financial instruments 9 3 3 1 1 Bonds 672 17 17 61 74 Other borrowings 48 2 3 Other net financial assets 620 51 62 Total financial instruments 570 14 14 30 38 The table shows the sensitivities of the fair values of each class of Liquidity and re-financing risk management financial instrument to an isolated change in either interest rates The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities or foreign exchange rates.
Other net financial assets comprises required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent trade receivables less trade payables.
A significant proportion cash flow forecast for the next three to five years, determining the of the movements shown above would impact equity rather than level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning the income statement due to the location and functional currency for shareholder returns and repayments of maturing debt, and of the entities in which they arise and the availability of net identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a investment hedging.
The Groups income statement is reported at average rates for the At 31 December 2018, the Group had cash of 0.5bn and an year while the balance sheet is translated at the year-end closing undrawn US dollar denominated revolving credit facility due 2021 rate.
Differences between these rates can distort ratio calculations of $1.75bn 1.4bn.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had cash of such as debt to EBITDA and interest cover.
Adjusted operating profit 0.6bn and an undrawn US dollar denominated revolving credit translated at year-end closing rates would be 28m higher than the facility due 2021 of $1.75bn 1.3bn.
EBITDA translated at year-end closing rates would be 32m higher than the reported figure of 698m at 730m.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 189 19.
Financial risk management continued The $1.75bn facility contains interest cover and leverage The following table analyses the Groups bonds and derivative covenants which the Group has complied with for the year assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on ended 31 December 2018.
The maturity of the carrying values of the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual the Groups borrowings and trade payables are set out in notes 18 maturity date.
Short dated derivative instruments have not been and 24 respectively.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as At the end of 2018, the currency split of the Groups trade payables such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
was US dollar 178m, sterling 57m and other currencies 98m 2017: US dollar 137m, sterling 58m and other currencies 90m.
Trade payables are all due within one year 2017: all due within one year.
Analysed by maturity Analysed by currency Greater than Later than one month one year but and less than less than five Five years All figures in millions one year Total Total years or more USD GBP Other At 31 December 2018 Bonds 14 431 277 722 189 533 722 Rate derivatives inflows 20 288 343 651 40 167 444 651 Rate derivatives outflows 23 289 341 653 254 390 9 653 FX forwards inflows 251 35 286 286 286 FX forwards outflows 275 37 312 312 312 Total 41 434 275 750 715 63 98 750 At 31 December 2017 Bonds 20 601 533 1,154 184 970 1,154 Rate derivatives inflows 38 975 684 1,697 53 751 893 1,697 Rate derivatives outflows 48 1,060 667 1,775 1,003 751 21 1,775 FX forwards inflows FX forwards outflows Total 30 686 516 1,232 1,134 98 1,232 Financial counterparty and credit risk management For trade receivables and contract assets the Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of Financial counterparty and credit risk arises from cash and cash each customer.
However, risk associated with the industry and equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and country in which customers operate may also influence the credit deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit risk.
The credit quality of customers is assessed by taking into exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables.
account financial position, past experience and other relevant Counterparty credit limits, which take published credit rating and factors.
Individual credit limits are set for each customer based on other factors into account, are set to cover the Groups total internal ratings.
The compliance with credit limits is regularly aggregate exposure to a single financial institution.
The limits monitored by the Group.
A default on a trade receivable is when applicable to published credit rating bands are approved by the the counterparty fails to make contractual payments within the Chief Financial Officer within guidelines approved by the Board.
Trade receivables and contract assets are Exposures and limits applicable to each financial institution are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
The carrying amounts of financial assets, trade receivables and contract assets represent the maximum credit exposure.
Cash deposits and derivative transactions are made with approved counterparties up to pre-agreed limits.
To manage counterparty Trade receivables and contract assets are subject to impairment risk associated with cash and cash equivalents, the Group uses a using the expected credit loss model.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 mixture of money market funds as well as bank deposits.
As at simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses 31 December 2018, 85% of cash and cash equivalents was held with a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables investment grade bank counterparties, 7% with AAA money market and contract assets.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade funds and 8% held with non-investment grade bank counterparties.
receivables and contract assets have been grouped based on As at 31 December 2018, the Group had a net exposure of 33m shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
See note with investment grade counterparties for derivative transactions.
22 for further details about trade receivables and contract assets including movements in provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 190 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.
Intangible assets pre-publication All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cost At beginning of year 1,854 2,417 Exchange differences 70 168 Additions 328 362 Disposal through business disposal 1 Disposals 158 248 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 508 At end of year 2,096 1,854 Amortisation At beginning of year 1,113 1,393 Exchange differences 53 109 Charge for the year 271 338 Disposals 158 248 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 261 At end of year 1,279 1,113 Carrying amounts At end of year 817 741 Included in the above are pre-publication assets amounting to 577m 2017: 504m which will be realised in more than one year.
Amortisation is included in the income statement in cost of goods sold.
In addition to the above 242m 2017: 247m of pre-publication assets are included in assets classified as held for sale see note 32 with a charge of 67m and additions of 60m in 2018 relating to assets and liabilities held for sale.
Inventories All figures in millions 2018 2017 Raw materials 5 4 Work in progress 2 Finished goods 149 142 Returns asset 10 164 148 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the income statement in cost of goods sold amounted to 375m 2017: 324m.
In 2018 39m 2017: 38m of inventory provisions was charged in the income statement.
None of the inventory is pledged as security.
Included within the inventory balance is the estimation of the right to receive goods from contracts with customers via returns see note 1b.
The value of the returns asset is measured at the carrying amount of the assets at the time of sale aligned to the Groups normal inventory valuation methodology less any expected costs to recover the asset and any expected reduction in value.
Impairment charges against the inventory returns asset are nil in 2018.
The returns asset all relates to finished goods.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 191 22.
Trade and other receivables All figures in millions 2018 2017 Current Trade receivables 874 739 Royalty advances 5 8 Prepayments 103 82 Deferred contract costs 1 Accrued income 2 1 Other receivables 193 280 1,178 1,110 Non-current Trade receivables 30 21 Royalty advances 21 20 Prepayments 13 15 Deferred contract costs 1 Accrued income 10 10 Other receivables 25 37 100 103 Accrued income represents contract assets which are unbilled amounts generally resulting from assessments and services revenue streams where revenue to be recognised over time has been recognised in excess of customer billings to date.
Impairment charges on accrued income assets are nil in 2018.
The carrying value of the Groups trade and other receivables approximates its fair value.
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Trade and other receivables includes the impact of adoption of IFRS 15 in 2018 see note 1b.
This impact increased trade and other receivables as a result of the transfer of the sales return liability of 173m to trade and other liabilities that was previously netted in trade receivables.
Comparatives have not been restated.
The movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 At beginning of year 116 112 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 see note 1c 12 Exchange differences 2 7 Income statement movements 1 38 Utilised 31 21 Disposal through business disposal 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 5 At end of year 96 116 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups large number of customers, who are internationally dispersed.
The ageing of the Groups trade receivables is as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Within due date 606 661 Up to three months past due date 172 187 Three to six months past due date 72 48 Six to nine months past due date 16 18 Nine to 12 months past due date 24 13 More than 12 months past due date 14 3 Total trade receivables 904 930 Less: sales return liability 170 Net trade receivables 904 760 The Group reviews its bad debt provision at least twice a year following a detailed review of receivable balances and historical payment profiles.
Management believes all the remaining receivable balances are fully recoverable.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 192 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in millions consideration Property and closures and other Total At 1 January 2018 45 3 11 21 80 Exchange differences 2 2 Charged to income statement 103 3 106 Released to income statement 2 5 7 Utilised 5 2 5 3 15 Disposal through business disposal 1 1 At 31 December 2018 42 102 5 16 165 2018 Analysis of provisions: Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in millions consideration Property and closures and other Total Current 6 2 5 7 20 Non-current 36 100 9 145 42 102 5 16 165 2017 Current 5 1 11 8 25 Non-current 40 2 13 55 45 3 11 21 80 Deferred consideration primarily relates to the formation of a venture in North America in 2011.
The provision will be utilised over a number of years as payments are based on a royalty rate.
The provision above represents managements best estimate of the liability, however, the maximum that could be payable is 84m.
Property provisions predominantly relate to restructuring and onerous leases.
The main provisions relate to the consolidation of London properties and are expected to be utilised from 2020.
Uncertainties around property provisions relate to prevailing market conditions including potential sublet income, lease terms including rent free periods, void periods, lease incentives and running costs.
Disposals and closures include liabilities related to recent disposals and are expected to be utilised in 2019.
Legal and other includes legal claims, contract disputes and potential contract losses with the provisions utilised as the cases are settled.
Also included in legal and other are other restructuring provisions that are generally utilised within one year.
Trade and other liabilities All figures in millions 2018 2017 Trade payables 311 265 Sales return liability 173 Social security and other taxes 16 21 Accruals 397 447 Deferred income 387 322 Interest payable 46 45 Liability to purchase own shares 151 Other liabilities 225 224 1,555 1,475 Less: non-current portion Accruals 15 26 Deferred income 66 35 Other liabilities 74 72 155 133 Current portion 1,400 1,342 The carrying value of the Groups trade and other liabilities approximates its fair value.
The deferred income balance comprises contract liabilities in respect of advance payments in assessment, testing and training businesses: subscription income in school and college businesses: and obligations to deliver digital content in future periods.
Trade and other liabilities includes the impact of adoption of IFRS 15 in 2018 see note 1b.
This impact increased trade and other liabilities as a result of the transfer of the sales return liability of 173m that was previously netted in trade receivables and deferred income by 28m at 31 December 2018.
The liability to purchase own shares in 2017 relates to a buyback agreement for the purchase of the companys own shares see note 27.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 193 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations Background The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined A ruling in the Lloyds Bank High Court case in October 2018 provided contribution retirement plans throughout the world.
clarity on how pension plans should equalise guaranteed minimum pensions GMP between males and females.
The case ruling The largest plan is the Pearson Group Pension Plan UK Group plan resulted in a past service charge in the income statement of 8m in the UK, which is sectionalised to provide both defined benefit and and an additional liability of 8m which has been incorporated defined contribution pension benefits.
The defined benefit section into the valuation of the UK Group plan defined benefit obligation.
was closed to new members from 1 November 2006.
The defined This charge has been excluded from the Groups adjusted earnings contribution section, opened in 2003, is open to new and existing as this relates to historical circumstances see note 8.
Finally, there is a separate section within the UK Group is an estimate based on available data and revisions to these plan set up for auto-enrolment.
The defined benefit section of the estimates in future years will be treated as assumption changes and UK Group plan is a final salary pension plan which provides benefits recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable statement.
The level of benefits depends on the length of service and final pensionable pay.
The UK Group plan is funded with benefit payments from trustee-administered funds.
The UK Group plan is administered in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules in the interests of its beneficiaries by Pearson Group Pension Trustee Limited.
At 31 December 2018, the UK Group plan had approximately 24,000 members, analysed in the following table: All figures in % Active Deferred Pensioners Total Defined benefit 1 25 35 61 Defined contribution 9 30 39 Total 10 55 35 100 The other major defined benefit plans are based in the US.
The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan operates a These are also final salary pension plans which provide benefits Reference Scheme Test first pension underpin for its members.
to members in the form of a guaranteed pension payable for life, Where a members fund value is insufficient to purchase the with the level of benefits dependent on length of service and first pension upon retirement, the UK Group plan is liable for the final pensionable pay.
The majority of the US plans are funded.
shortfall to cover the members first pension.
In 2017, the UK Group plan revised its approach to securing the first underpin by The Group also has several post-retirement medical benefit plans converting a members fund value into a pension in the UK Group PRMBs, principally in the US.
PRMBs are unfunded but are plan rather than purchasing an annuity with an insurer.
A liability accounted for and valued similarly to defined benefit pension of 23m 2017: 32m in respect of the underpin is included in the plans.
In 2018, changes made to the US PRMB have resulted in a UK Group plans defined benefit obligation, calculated as the present curtailment gain of 11m being recognised in the income statement.
value of projected payments less the fund value.
The UK Group plans conversion factors are lower than the respective insurer The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, annuity values and this drove a reduction in the underpin liability, such as life expectancy, inflation risks, and investment risk including resulting in an actuarial gain through other comprehensive income asset volatility and changes in bond yields.
The Group is not exposed and an increase in the surplus at 31 December 2017.
From 1 January to any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks.
2018, members who have sufficient funds to purchase an first pension are able to convert their fund value into a pension in the UK Group plan as an alternative to purchasing an annuity with an insurer.
The Group does not recognise the assets and liabilities for members of the defined contribution section of the UK Group plan whose fund values are expected to be sufficient to purchase an first pension without assistance from the UK Group plan.
The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan had gross assets of 453m at 31 December 2018.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 194 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Assumptions The principal assumptions used for the UK Group plan and the US PRMB are shown below.
Weighted average assumptions have been shown for the other plans, which primarily relate to US pension plans.
2018 2017 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan plans PRMB plan plans PRMB Inflation 3.3 1.6 1.5 3.2 1.6 1.5 Rate used to discount plan liabilities 2.8 4.0 4.1 2.5 3.0 3.0 Expected rate of increase in salaries 3.8 2.9 3.0 3.7 3.0 3.0 Expected rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.1 to 5.1 2.1 to 5.1 Initial rate of increase in healthcare rate 7.0 6.5 Ultimate rate of increase in healthcare rate 5.5 5.0 The UK discount rate is based on corporate bond yields adjusted to reflect the duration of liabilities.
The US discount rate is set by reference to a US bond portfolio matching model.
The inflation rate for the UK Group plan of 3.3% reflects the RPI rate.
In line with changes to legislation in 2010, certain benefits have been calculated with reference to CPI as the inflationary measure and in these instances a rate of 2.3% has been used.
The expected rate of increase in salaries has been set at 3.8% for 2018.
For the UK Group plan, the mortality base table assumptions have been updated and are derived from the SAPS S2 for males and females, adjusted to reflect the observed experience of the plan, with CMI model improvement factors.
A 1.5% long-term rate improvement on the CMI model is applied for both males and females.
For the US plans, the mortality table RP 2018 and 2018 improvement scale MP 2018 with generational projection for male and female annuitants has been adopted.
Using the above tables, the remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date for the UK Group plan and US plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2018 2017 2018 2017 Male 23.8 23.6 20.7 20.8 Female 24.5 25.7 22.7 22.8 The remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, for the UK and US Group plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2018 2017 2018 2017 Male 25.4 25.7 22.3 22.5 Female 26.3 27.9 24.2 24.4 Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised during the life of the plan to address member benefits, the Group recognises its pension surplus in full in respect of the UK Group plan on the basis that it is managements judgement that there are no substantive restrictions on the return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member obligations have been met.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 195 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2018 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 7 2 9 56 1 64 Past service cost 8 8 8 Curtailments 11 11 Administration expenses 6 6 6 Total operating expense 21 2 23 56 12 67 Interest on plan assets 82 5 87 87 Interest on plan liabilities 68 6 74 2 76 Net finance income expense 14 1 13 2 11 Net income statement charge 7 3 10 56 10 56 2017 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 8 1 9 57 1 65 Administration expenses 9 1 10 10 Total operating expense 17 2 19 57 1 75 Interest on plan assets 84 5 89 89 Interest on plan liabilities 77 7 84 2 86 Net finance income expense 7 2 5 2 3 Net income statement charge 10 4 14 57 1 72 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2018 2017 Other Other UK Group Other funded unfunded UK Group Other funded unfunded All figures in millions plan plans plans Total plan plans plans Total Fair value of plan assets 3,240 141 3,381 3,337 155 3,492 Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,671 158 19 2,848 2,792 161 20 2,973 Net pension asset liability 569 17 19 533 545 6 20 519 Other post-retirement medical benefit obligation 49 67 Other pension accruals 13 11 Net retirement benefit asset 471 441 Analysed as: Retirement benefit assets 571 545 Retirement benefit obligations 100 104 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 196 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued The following gains have been recognised in other comprehensive income: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Amounts recognised for defined benefit plans 16 175 Amounts recognised for post-retirement medical benefit plans 6 Total recognised in year 22 175 The fair value of plan assets comprises the following: 2018 2017 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan funded plans Total plan funded plans Total Insurance 28 1 29 29 29 Equities 1 1 2 1 1 2 Bonds 2 2 3 3 Property 7 7 8 8 Pooled asset investment funds 44 44 44 44 Other 16 16 14 14 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, or any property occupied by the Group.
The table below further disaggregates the plan assets into additional categories and those assets which have a quoted market price in an active market and those that do not: 2018 2017 Quoted No quoted Quoted No quoted All figures in % market price market price market price market price Insurance 29 29 Non-UK equities 2 2 Fixed-interest securities 2 3 Property 7 8 Pooled asset investment funds 44 44 Other 16 14 Total 75 25 76 24 The liquidity profile of the UK Group plan assets is as follows: All figures in % 2018 2017 Liquid call 1 month 51 50 Less liquid call 13 months Illiquid call 3 months 49 50 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 197 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued Changes in the values of plan assets and liabilities of the retirement benefit plans are as follows: 2018 2017 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in millions plan plans Total plan plans Total Fair value of plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets 3,337 155 3,492 3,339 158 3,497 Exchange differences 4 4 8 8 Interest on plan assets 82 5 87 84 5 89 Return on plan assets excluding interest 45 13 58 140 10 130 Contributions by employer 6 1 7 234 8 242 Benefits paid 140 11 151 188 18 206 Other 8 8 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,240 141 3,381 3,337 155 3,492 Present value of defined benefit obligation Opening defined benefit obligation 2,792 181 2,973 3,181 205 3,386 Exchange differences 3 3 13 13 Current service cost 7 2 9 8 1 9 Past service cost 8 8 Administration expenses 6 6 9 1 10 Interest on plan liabilities 68 6 74 77 7 84 Actuarial gains losses experience 49 2 51 126 6 132 Actuarial gains losses demographic 12 12 133 1 134 Actuarial gains losses financial 131 6 137 44 5 39 Contributions by employee Other 8 8 Benefits paid 140 11 151 188 18 206 Closing defined benefit obligation 2,671 177 2,848 2,792 181 2,973 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16.1 years for the UK and 7.1 years for the US.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 198 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued Changes in the value of the US PRMB are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Opening defined benefit obligation 67 77 Exchange differences 2 5 Current service cost 1 1 Curtailments 11 Interest on plan liabilities 2 2 Actuarial gains losses experience 4 1 Actuarial gains losses demographic 1 Actuarial gains losses financial 2 2 Benefits paid 4 6 Closing defined benefit obligation 49 67 Funding The UK Group plan is self-administered with the plans assets being In February 2019, the UK Group plan purchased a further pensioner held independently of the Group in trust.
The trustee of the plan buy-in policy valued at approximately 500m with Legal & General.
is required to act in the best interest of the plans beneficiaries.
This is in addition to the previous buy-in policies with Aviva and The most recent triennial actuarial valuation for funding purposes Legal & General totalling 1.2bn which were purchased in 2017. was completed as at 1 January 2018 and this valuation revealed a As a result of this latest transaction, 95% of the UK Group plans technical provisions funding surplus of 163m.
The plan expects pensioner liabilities are now matched with buy-in policies.
to be able to provide benefits in accordance with the plan rules These transfer significant longevity risk to Aviva and Legal & with a very low level of reliance on future funding from the Group.
General, reducing the pension risks being underwritten by the Group and providing additional security for members.
Assets of the plan are divided into two elements: matching assets, which are assets that produce cash flows that can be expected Regular contributions to the plan in respect of the defined benefit to match the cash flows for a proportion of the membership, sections are estimated to be 3m for 2019. and include a liability-driven investment mandate UK bonds, interest rate inflation swaps and other derivative instruments, Pensioner buy-in insurance policies, inflation-linked property and infrastructure: and return seeking assets, which are assets invested with a longer-term horizon to generate the returns needed to provide the remaining expected cash flows for the beneficiaries, and include diversified growth funds, property and alternative asset classes.
The plans long-term investment strategy allocates 85% to matching assets and 15% to return seeking assets.
Sensitivities The effect of a one percentage point increase and decrease in the discount rate on the defined benefit obligation and the total pension expense is as follows: 2018 All figures in millions 1% increase 1% decrease Effect: Decrease increase in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 386 522 Decrease increase in defined benefit obligation US plan 11 13 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 199 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Sensitivities continued The effect of members living one year more or one year less on the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2018 One year One year All figures in millions increase decrease Effect: Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 143 138 Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation US plan 7 8 The effect of a half percentage point increase and decrease in the inflation rate is as follows: 2018 All figures in millions 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease Effect: Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 129 114 Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation US plan The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, although in practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating these sensitivities, the same method has been applied to calculate the defined benefit obligation as has been applied when calculating the liability recognised in the balance sheet.
This methodology is the same as prior periods.
Share-based payments The Group recognised the following charges in the income statement in respect of its equity-settled share-based payment plans: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Pearson plans 37 33 The Group operates the following equity-settled employee option Long-Term Incentive Plan The plan was first introduced in 2001, and share plans: renewed again in 2006 and again in 2011.
The plan consists of restricted shares.
The vesting of restricted shares is normally Worldwide Save for Shares Plan Since 1994, the Group has operated dependent on continuing service over a three-to five-year period, a Save-As-You-Earn plan for UK employees.
In 1998, the Group and in the case of executive directors and senior management upon introduced a Worldwide Save for Shares Plan.
Under these plans, the satisfaction of corporate performance targets over a three-year employees can save a portion of their monthly salary over periods period.
These targets may be based on market and or non-market of three or five years.
At the end of this period, the employee has the performance criteria.
Restricted shares awarded to executive option to purchase ordinary shares with the accumulated funds at directors in May 2018 and September 2017 vest dependent on a purchase price equal to 80% of the market price prevailing at the relative total shareholder return, return on invested capital and time of the commencement of the employees participation in the adjusted earnings per share growth.
Restricted shares awarded to plan.
Options that are not exercised within six months of the end senior management in March 2017 vest dependent on adjusted of the savings period lapse unconditionally.
Other restricted shares awarded in 2018 and 2017 vest depending on continuing service over periods Employee Stock Purchase Plan In 2000, the Group established an of up to three years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan which allows all employees in the US to save a portion of their monthly salary over six-month periods.
Management Incentive Plan The plan was introduced in 2017 At the end of the period, the employee has the option to purchase combining the Groups Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term American Depository Receipts ADRs with their accumulated funds Incentive Plan for senior management.
The number of shares to be at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lower of the market prices granted to participants is dependent on Group performance in the prevailing at the beginning or end of the period.
calendar year preceding the date of grant on the same basis as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Subsequently, the shares vest dependent on continuing service over a three year period, and additionally in the case of Pearson Executive Management upon satisfaction of non-market based performance criteria as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Restricted shares awarded as part of the 2017 Management Incentive Plan were granted in April 2018.
Restricted shares awarded as part of the 2018 Management Incentive Plan will be granted in April 2019.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 200 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26.
Share-based payments continued The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options granted under the Groups plans are as follows: 2018 2017 Number of share Weighted average Number of share Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price 000s 000s Outstanding at beginning of year 2,981 6.84 2,978 8.14 Granted during the year 729 5.80 1,619 5.50 Exercised during the year 70 6.57 9 7.00 Forfeited during the year 668 7.58 1,451 8.04 Expired during the year 244 8.19 156 9.09 Outstanding at end of year 2,728 5.76 2,981 6.84 Options exercisable at end of year 169 11.31 350 8.18 Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average share price during the year was 8.45 2017: 6.71.
Early exercises arising from redundancy, retirement or death are treated as an acceleration of vesting and the Group therefore recognises in the income statement the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the original vesting period.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have weighted average remaining contractual lives and exercise prices as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average Weighted average Range of exercise prices Number of contractual life Number of contractual life share options 000s Years share options 000s Years 510 2,553 2.29 2,697 2.52 10 175 0.29 284 1.24 2,728 2.16 2,981 2.40 In 2018 and 2017, options were granted under the Worldwide Save for Shares Plan.
The weighted average estimated fair value for the options granted was calculated using a BlackScholes option pricing model.
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the BlackScholes model are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average Weighted average Fair value 1.88 1.24 Weighted average share price 7.49 6.83 Weighted average exercise price 5.80 5.50 Expected volatility 35.78% 34.75% Expected life 3.7 years 3.7 years Risk-free rate 0.87% 0.20% Expected dividend yield 5.21% 7.61% Forfeiture rate 3.2% 3.2% The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the companys share price over the previous three to seven years depending on the vesting term of the options.
The following shares were granted under restricted share arrangements: 2018 2017 Number of Weighted average fair Number of Weighted average fair shares value shares value 000s 000s Long-Term Incentive Plan 2,907 7.55 6,453 6.61 Management Incentive Plan 2,035 7.45 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 201 26.
Share-based payments continued The fair value of shares granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Management Incentive Plan that vest unconditionally is determined using the share price at the date of grant.
The number of shares expected to vest is adjusted, based on historical experience, to account for potential forfeitures.
Participants under the plan are entitled to dividends during the vesting period and therefore the share price is not discounted.
Restricted shares with a market performance condition were valued by an independent actuary using a Monte Carlo model.
Restricted shares with a non-market performance condition were fair valued based on the share price at the date of grant.
Non-market performance conditions are taken into consideration by adjusting the number of shares expected to vest based on the most likely outcome of the relevant performance criteria.
Share capital and share premium Number of Share Share shares capital premium 000s m m At 1 January 2017 822,127 205 2,597 Issue of ordinary shares share option schemes 923 5 Purchase of own shares 20,996 5 At 31 December 2017 802,054 200 2,602 Issue of ordinary shares share option schemes 864 1 5 Purchase of own shares 21,840 6 At 31 December 2018 781,078 195 2,607 The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share 2017: 25p per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
All shares have the same rights.
The 300m share buyback programme announced in October 2017 was completed on 16 February 2018.
In 2017, the Groups brokers purchased 21m shares at a value of 153m of which 149m had been cancelled at 31 December 2017.
Cash payments of 149m had been made in respect of the purchases with the outstanding 4m settlement made at the beginning of January 2018.
This 4m together with the remaining value of the buyback programme of 147m was recorded as a liability at 31 December 2017 see note 24.
A further 22m shares were purchased under the programme in 2018 see note 37.
The shares bought back have been cancelled and the nominal value of these shares transferred to a capital redemption reserve.
The nominal value of shares cancelled at 31 December 2018 was 11m 2017: 5m.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt see note 18, cash and cash equivalents see note 17 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group reviews its capital structure on a regular basis and will balance its overall capital structure through payments of dividends, new share issues as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt in line with the financial risk policies outlined in note 19.
Treasury shares Pearson plc Number of shares 000s m At 1 January 2017 7,719 79 Purchase of treasury shares Release of treasury shares 1,725 18 At 31 December 2017 5,994 61 Purchase of treasury shares Release of treasury shares 2,769 28 At 31 December 2018 3,225 33 The Group holds Pearson plc shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans see note 26.
These shares, representing 0.4% 2017: 0.8% of called-up share capital, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p per share.
The nominal value of Pearson plc treasury shares amounts to 0.8m 2017: 1.5m.
Dividends on treasury shares are waived.
At 31 December 2018, the market value of Pearson plc treasury shares was 30m 2017: 44m.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 202 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
Other comprehensive income 2018 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 91 91 91 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 1 1 1 Currency translation adjustment disposed 4 4 4 Attributable tax 4 4 4 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 8 8 8 Attributable tax Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 22 22 22 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 3 3 3 Attributable tax 9 9 9 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 8 86 30 124 124 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 158 158 158 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 104 104 104 Currency translation adjustment disposed 51 51 51 Attributable tax 9 9 9 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 13 13 13 Attributable tax 4 4 4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 175 175 175 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 7 7 7 Attributable tax 42 42 42 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 13 313 145 155 155 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 203 30. Business combinations There were no significant acquisitions in 2018 or 2017.
There were no material adjustments to prior year acquisitions.
The net cash outflow relating to acquisitions in the year is shown below.
All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cash flow on acquisitions Deferred payments for prior year acquisitions and other items 5 11 Net cash outflow 5 11 31.
Disposals In March 2018, the Group completed the sale of its Wall Street English language teaching business WSE resulting in a pre-tax profit on sale of 207m.
Tax on the disposal is estimated at 6m.
WSE was classified as held for sale on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 see note 32.
In May 2018 the Group disposed of the equity interest in UTEL, the online University partnership in Mexico realising a gain of 19m before tax of 2m.
2018 2017 All figures in millions Notes WSE UTEL Other Total Total Disposal of subsidiaries and associates Property, plant and equipment 17 17 7 Intangible assets 15 2 17 9 Investments in joint ventures and associates 3 3 352 Net deferred income tax assets 3 Intangible assets pre-publication 8 8 1 Inventories 1 1 2 Trade and other receivables 30 30 16 Current income tax receivable 5 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 119 119 13 Net deferred income tax liabilities 16 16 Trade and other liabilities 171 1 172 34 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 1 1 Cumulative currency translation adjustment 29 4 4 51 Net assets liabilities disposed 1 3 2 323 Cash received 212 22 9 243 468 Deferred proceeds 2 2 Fair value of financial asset acquired 3 3 Costs 6 10 16 17 Gain on disposal 207 19 4 230 128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 204 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Disposals continued All figures in millions 2018 2017 Cash flow from disposals Cash current year disposals 243 468 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 119 13 Costs and other disposal liabilities paid 23 25 Net cash inflow 101 430 Analysed as: Cash inflow from sale of subsidiaries 83 19 Cash inflow from sale of joint ventures and associates 18 411 32.
Held for sale Held for sale assets and liabilities in 2018 relate to the K12 school courseware business in the US K12.
Following the decision in 2017 to sell both the Wall Street English language teaching business WSE and the K12 business, the assets and liabilities of those businesses were classified as held for sale on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
During 2018 WSE was sold and the K12 business remains on the balance sheet as a held for sale asset prior to the disposal announced in February 2019 see note 37.
2018 2017 All figures in millions Notes Total Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 16 Intangible assets 168 181 Deferred income tax assets 98 68 Trade and other receivables 25 27 291 292 Current assets Intangible assets pre-publication 242 247 Inventories 55 46 Trade and other receivables 60 48 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 17 127 357 468 Assets classified as held for sale 648 760 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 2 Other liabilities 371 284 371 286 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 202 302 202 302 Liabilities classified as held for sale 573 588 Net assets classified as held for sale 75 172 Goodwill is allocated to the held for sale businesses on a relative fair value basis where these businesses form part of a larger cash generating unit CGU.
The goodwill allocated to the K12 business was reassessed at 31 December 2018.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 205 33.
Cash generated from operations All figures in millions Notes 2018 2017 Profit 590 408 Adjustments for: Income tax 92 13 Depreciation 10 66 90 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and goodwill 11 99 138 Amortisation of software 11 88 85 Net finance costs 6 55 30 Charges relating to GMP equalisation 8 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 44 78 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets 315 116 Net foreign exchange adjustment from transactions 28 26 Share-based payment costs 26 37 33 Pre-publication 37 35 Inventories 10 24 Trade and other receivables 15 133 Trade and other liabilities 35 6 Retirement benefit obligations 9 232 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 63 11 Net cash generated from operations 547 462 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 117 458 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House 50 312 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 70 82 Purchase of intangible software assets 130 150 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets 128 Finance lease principal payments 4 5 Special pension contribution 227 Net proceeds from cost paid re major restructuring 25 71 Operating cash flow 513 669 Operating tax paid 43 75 Net operating finance costs paid 22 69 Operating free cash flow 448 525 Special pension contribution 227 Net proceeds from cost paid re major restructuring 25 71 Free cash flow 473 227 Dividends paid including to non-controlling interests 137 318 Net movement of funds from operations 336 91 Acquisitions and disposals 92 416 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House 50 312 Loans repaid advanced including to related parties 46 13 New equity 6 5 Buyback of equity 153 149 Other movements on financial instruments 6 14 Net movement of funds 371 494 Exchange movements on net debt 82 166 Total movement in net debt 289 660 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 206 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Cash generated from operations continued Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating the rate at the date of cash flow.
The difference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated from operations.
This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the related cash receipts or payments.
Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow are non-GAAP non-statutory measures and have been disclosed and reconciled in the above table as they are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group.
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Net book amount 41 12 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 87 12 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 128 The movements in the Groups current and non-current borrowings are as follows: Foreign Fair value and Financing exchange other All figures in millions 2017 cash flows movements movements 2018 Financial liabilities Non-current borrowings 1,066 441 10 8 643 Current borrowings 4 1 22 25 Total 1,070 442 32 8 668 Non-current borrowings include bonds, derivative financial instruments and finance leases.
Current borrowings include loans repayable within one year and finance leases, but exclude overdrafts classified within cash and cash equivalents.
Contingencies There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
In addition, there are contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of unsettled or disputed tax liabilities, legal claims, contract disputes, royalties, copyright fees, permissions and other rights.
None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the Group.
As previously reported, on 24 November 2017 the European Commission published an opening decision that the United Kingdom controlled foreign company group financing partial exemption FCPE constitutes State Aid.
No final decision has yet been published, and may anyway be challenged by the UK tax authorities.
The Group has benefited from the FCPE in 2018 and prior years by approximately 116m.
At present the Group believes no provision is required in respect of this issue.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 207 35.
Commitments At the balance sheet date there were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for but not yet incurred.
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under operating lease agreements, also with varying terms.
Lease expenditure charged to the income statement was 128m 2017: 178m.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Not later than one year 143 156 Later than one year and not later than two years 130 139 Later than two years and not later than three years 115 121 Later than three years and not later than four years 101 100 Later than four years and not later than five years 91 86 Later than five years 595 599 1,175 1,201 In the event that the Group has excess capacity in its leased offices and warehouses it will enter into sub-lease contracts in order to offset costs.
The future aggregate minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Not later than one year 51 45 Later than one year and not later than two years 44 45 Later than two years and not later than three years 41 40 Later than three years and not later than four years 39 35 Later than four years and not later than five years 35 33 Later than five years 124 138 334 336 36.
Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates Amounts advanced to joint ventures and associates during the year and at the balance sheet date are set out in note 12.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson executive see p13.
It is this Committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group in 2018.
Key management personnel compensation is disclosed below: All figures in millions 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 6 12 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payment costs 7 2 Total 14 15 There were no other material related party transactions.
No guarantees have been provided to related parties.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 208 37.
Events after the balance sheet date On 18 February 2019, the Group announced the sale of the US K12 Legal & General.
As a result of this latest transaction, 95% of the UK courseware business to Nexus Capital Management LP for headline Group plans pensioner liabilities are now matched with buy-in consideration of $250m comprising an initial cash payment of $25m policies which significantly reduces longevity risk of the Group.
and an unconditional vendor note for $225m expected to be repaid The buy-in will be accounted for in 2019 and is expected to reduce in three to seven years.
Following the repayment of the vendor note, the retirement benefit asset on the balance sheet but is not expected to have a material impact on the income statement.
the Group is entitled to 20% of all future cash flows to equity holders and 20% of net proceeds if the business is sold.
The transaction is On 6 March 2019, the Group announced a tender offer for up to expected to complete in the first half of 2019.
75m of its 500m 1.875% notes due 2021 of which 250m were outstanding at 31 December 2018.
In addition, the Group also Also in February 2019, the UK Group pension plan purchased a announced the refinancing of its bank facility, with a new $1.19bn further pensioner buy-in policy valued at approximately 500m with Revolving Credit Facility due to mature in February 2024.
Accounts and audit exemptions The Pearson plc subsidiary companies listed below are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A.
Company number Company number Aldwych Finance Limited 04720439 Pearson International Finance Limited 02496206 Edexcel Limited 04496750 Pearson Loan Finance No.
3 Limited 05052661 Education Development International plc 03914767 Pearson Loan Finance No.
4 Limited 02635107 Longman Group Overseas Holdings Limited 00690236 Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited 05144467 Major123 Limited 05333023 Pearson Management Services Limited 00096263 Pearson Affordable Learning Fund Limited 08038068 Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited 00145205 Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited 05578463 Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited 10803853 Pearson Books Limited 02512075 Pearson PRH Holdings Limited 08561316 Pearson Brazil Finance Limited 08848874 Pearson Real Estate Holdings Limited 09768242 Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited 05578491 Pearson Services Limited 01341060 Pearson Dollar Finance plc 05111013 Pearson Shared Services Limited 04623186 Pearson Dollar Finance Two Limited 06507766 Pearson Strand Finance Limited 11091691 Pearson Education Holdings Limited 00210859 TQ Catalis Limited 07307943 Pearson Education Investments Limited 08444933 TQ Clapham Limited 07307925 Pearson Education Limited 00872828 TQ Global Limited 07802458 Pearson Funding Four plc 07970304
