Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 54 Operating performance registrations grew more than 40%.
Including Courseware North America stand-alone eBook registrations, total North School American digital registrations rose 1% and Market summary In School Courseware, revenue declined global registrations rose 3%.
mid-single digit percent primarily due to Our largest market includes all The actions announced in early 2017 to declines in Open Territory states.
This was 50 US states and Canada.
promote access over ownership met with partially offset by growth in Adoption state continued success.
Stand-alone eBook Contribution to Group revenues revenue on strong performance in Science volumes grew 34% in the US with revenue in Florida, South Carolina and Tennessee, % up 25% and our partner print rental Elementary Math in Oklahoma and 67 programme has had a successful start with Elementary Social Studies in California 130 titles in the programme in 2018.
We plan Sales and South Carolina.
to increase the number of titles in the Our new adoption participation rate rose programme to around 400 by fall 2019.
We won an We continue to make good progress with Adjusted operating profit estimated 33% share of adoptions our Inclusive Access Direct Digital Access competed for 38% in 2017 and 26% of solutions signing 192 new institutions in total new adoption expenditure of $509m 362m 2018, taking the total of not-for-profit and 29% of $365m in 2017. public institutions served to 617.
Including Sustainability Higher Education 80 longer-standing contracts with for-profit colleges, we now have direct courseware 200 In Higher Education Courseware, total US relationships with nearly 700 institutions.
college enrolments, as reported by the institutions use the GED College Ready score level, including community colleges, to help National Student Clearinghouse, fell 1.4%, Inclusive Access ensures that students have students bypass placement tests and with combined two-year public and affordable access to the courseware that developmental education courses four-year for-profit enrolments declining they need on day one of the course, whilst 4.8%.
Enrolment weakness was particularly further shifting our business model in this focused on part-time students where Revenue declined 1% in underlying terms, segment away from ownership and towards enrolment declined 2.9% compared to full primarily due to North American Higher subscription.
During the year, we delivered time enrolment which declined 1.1%.
Education Courseware declining 5%, School over 1.4m course enrolments with inclusive Courseware which was down mid-single access revenues from non-profit and public Net revenue in our US Higher Education digit %, impacted by weak Open Territory institutions rising to c. 8% of our higher Courseware business declined 5% during sales in the second half of the year, the education courseware revenue as more the year.
We estimate around 2% of this continued decline in Learning Studio as we colleges and faculties see the benefit of decline was driven by lower enrolment: move towards the retirement of the product this model.
around 1.5% from the adoption of Open in 2019 and Student Assessment which Educational Resources OER : around 2.5% declined moderately.
Offsetting that, from the combined impact of shifts in the Assessment we saw good growth in Virtual Schools, secondary market, more cautious buying by Student Assessment Online Program Management OPM and the channel and lower returns: offset by Professional Certification revenue.
In Student Assessment, revenue declined c. 1% benefit from the shift to digital.
moderately in 2018 due to the faster than Adjusted operating profit rose 1% in In 2018, Pearsons US Higher Education expected contraction in revenue associated underlying terms, as restructuring savings Courseware market share, as reported by with our PARCC and ACT-Aspire multi-state offset the impact of lower sales, inflation MPI, was within the c. 40-41.5% range seen volume-based contracts and our disciplined and other operating factors.
These factors will extend into 2019, where we expect a modest Digital revenue grew 2% benefiting from decline in revenue in this segment.
Beyond continued growth in direct sales and 2019, we expect the business to benefit favourable mix.
Global digital registrations from continued good momentum in of MyLab and related products were flat.
subcontractor contract wins leveraging our In North America, digital registrations fell digital leadership and a strong pipeline of 3% with good growth in Science, Business opportunities in key states.
& Economics and Revel offset by lower overall enrolment and continued softness in Developmental Mathematics.
Revel Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated.
Underlying growth rates exclude currency movements, portfolio changes and accounting changes.
Underlying measures are reconciled to the equivalent statutory measures on p222225.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 55 55 During 2018, Pearson successfully renewed contracts in Arizona and Kentucky through As a recent college graduate and applying for full time jobs for the first time in my life...
I am competitive procurements and secured finding it difficult to show potential employers business with the District of Columbia, New my soft skills, my traits outside of my Jersey, New Mexico, and Maryland under resume.
It means one thing to say I am a team new contracts with these PARCC states.
player, but I want to show the employers how We also won new contracts for Utahs I earned that trait.
Thankfully, Pearson Career High School Assessments and with the Success allows me to demonstrate my skills University of Iowa for the delivery of outside of my resume and earn badges such Iowas new assessment system.
as critical thinking and teamwork from an accredited and respected source.
We delivered 24m standardised online Jessica Albright, recent Marketing Bachelors tests to K12 students, down 5% from 2017.
Partnering with graduate Spring 2017 and MBA graduate TestNav 8, Pearsons next-generation online December 2018 at Missouri State University institutions to help test platform, supported a peak load of in Springfield, MO 825,000 tests in a single day and provided students become The Career Success Program is an integrated 99.99% up time.
Our AI scoring systems career ready solution designed to help learners discover, scored 36m responses to open-ended test develop, and demonstrate the occupational items, around 33% of the total.
Paper based Product: Career Success Program and personal and social capabilities that are standardised test volumes fell 9% to 18.5m.
vital for successful 21st century employment and lifelong success.
Professional Certification Pearson works with institutions at a variety In Professional Certification, VUE global test of different levels to provide resources and volume rose 4% to over 15m.
Revenue in services to students from the time they enroll North America was up mid-single digit %, at a university to the time they graduate, due to growth in medical college admissions 80,000 students all with the goal of preparing them for the testing and certification for professional currently enrolled in the career they want.
Over the next four years, bodies, offset by continued declines in Career Success Program over 80,000 students will go through volumes in the GED High School Equivalency this program.
Test and higher-level IT certifications in an environment of low unemployment.
We signed over 70 new contracts in 2018 and our renewal rate on existing contracts Mastering gives students feedback as they continues to be over 95%.
During the year do the work... they have more confidence we renewed over 80 contracts including the tackling problems, because theyve had National Council of State Boards of Nursing experience, and with more experience comes more confidence.
NCLEX exam, Microsoft and Adobe.
Evelyn Landers, Chemistry Lecturer at Clinical Assessment Waterford Institute of Technology has used Clinical Assessment sales declined slightly Mastering Chemistry since 2010.
Landers on an absence of new major product says it has made her teaching more efficient introductions impacting 2018.
Late in Q4 and personalised because students have access to personalised learning resources we launched a refresh of the Peabody that empower them to learn at their Picture Vocabulary Test and Expressive Pearson makes own pace.
Q-interactive, learning personal Pearsons digital solution for Clinical Mastering is one of the worlds leading Assessment administration, saw continued collections of online homework, tutorial, Product: Mastering and assessment products.
It is designed to strong growth in license sales with sub-test improve the results of all higher education administrations up more than 37% over students, one student at a time.
the same period last year.
Pearson partners with 3,700 institutions annually to provide Mastering to students all over the world, primarily in North America but also in South America, Europe, Asia, Pearson partners with Australia and Africa.
3,700 institutions DIGITAL CAPABILITIES annually to provide Real-time data analytics Mastering to students all over the world Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 56 Operating performance Services 2019 outlook Core Connections Academy US Higher Education Courseware Connections Academy, our K12 online In US Higher Education Courseware, we Market summary school business grew revenue 8%.
expect revenue to be flat to down 5% on Our international business in established Connections Academy served 73,000 Full the continuation of the pressures we saw and mature education markets.
Time Equivalent FTE students through on end demand in 2018 with ongoing 37 continuing full time virtual partner declines in enrolment and modest growth Contribution to Group revenues schools in 28 states, up 11% on last year.
For print revenue in this % Total FTE virtual school students declined segment, we see scope for further declines 20 3% to 75,400 as expected due to contract in gross sales and improvements in returns.
Sales exits at Commonwealth Charter Academy Print continues to be impacted by the in Pennsylvania and Florida Virtual School.
ongoing rise of secondary channels, such 806m as rental, but channel inventory has now Three new full time online, state-wide returned to more normalised levels Adjusted operating profit partner schools opened in the 2018-19 following the 2016 inventory correction school year in Florida, Michigan, and Ohio.
The channel is now We anticipate the opening of between 57m optimising the stock it holds, both through two and five new partner schools in the reducing purchases and returns, and we Sustainability 2019-20 school year.
expect that to continue in 2019.
Growth in % digital and direct sales provides some The 2018 Connections Academy Parent 40 offset to the continuing pressures on print.
Satisfaction Survey continues to show solid Students from the lowest four socio-economic endorsement for the schools with 93% of groups as defined by the UK ONS on average Assessment families with enrolled students stating they progress to HE in a subject related to their BTEC.
In Assessment, we expect good growth would recommend our virtual schools in Professional Certification and stable to others and 95% agreeing that the Revenue was flat in underlying terms revenue in our Clinical Assessment business curriculum is of high quality.
with growth in Pearson Test of English in the US.
We expect a modest decline in Pearson Online Services Academic, OPM in the UK and Australia revenue in North America Student and Professional Certification offset by Assessment on continued contraction in In Pearson Online Services, revenue declines in Higher Education and Student revenue associated with our PARCC and grew 3%, primarily due to growth in OPM, Assessment and Qualifications.
partially offset by a decline in Learning Studio revenue as we retire the product Adjusted operating profit increased 10% in Connections Academy and Online and as we restructured smaller underlying terms, due to restructuring Program Management non-OPM contracts.
savings partially offset by inflation.
We expect good growth in revenue and Online Program Management enrolment at Connections Academy Courseware and in North America Online Program In OPM, we grew revenue 9% as course Management.
registration grew strongly, up 14% to more School and Higher Education than 388,000 on strong growth in programs Courseware revenue declined moderately.
at key partners including Arizona State Slight growth in School Courseware was University Online, Maryville University, Regis offset by declines in Higher Education College, Bradley University, Ohio University Courseware.
In Higher Education and the University of Southern California.
Courseware, revenue was down due Our overall active program count grew by to market declines in Europe and Asia, 33 to 325.
The launch of 46 new programs partially offset by growth in digital sales were offset by 13 discontinued programs.
to institutional partners in the UK During 2018 we signed 27 multi-year and Australia.
programs, including programs at new partners the University of North Dakota and Rider University.
We closed nine out of 15 renewal opportunities and as part of broader efforts around portfolio optimisation agreed with our partners to terminate 23 programs that were not mutually viable.
Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 57 57 Pearson Test of English Academic the seven programs in Australia up from Assessment c. 9,300 in 2017.
In the UK, we launched Pearson Test of English Academic saw Student Assessment and Qualifications 11 new programs and course registrations continued strong growth in test volumes In Student Assessment and Qualifications, grew, reaching c. 3,000 compared to c. 1,400 and we successfully extended our revenue fell as modest growth in BTEC Firsts in 2017.
During the year, we also announced agreement with Department of Home and GCE A-Level was more than offset by new partnerships with the University of Affairs in Australia for another two years.
declines in AS levels, international GCSEs in Northumbria in the UK, and ESSEC Business Professional Certification the UK and UK Apprenticeships due to policy School in France.
changes in the schools qualifications and the In Professional Certification, revenue was apprenticeships market.
We successfully up modestly due to the launch of additional 2019 outlook delivered the National Curriculum Test computer-based exams for an existing We expect stable revenue across Core, NCT for 2018, marking 3.6m scripts, customer in the UK and the MOI, the including student qualifications and up slightly from 2017.
We will deliver the French Driving Test.
assessment, with further revenue growth NCT again in 2019 before the test transitions in OPM and PTEA, offset by continued to another provider in 2020.
Services declines in our Courseware businesses.
Clinical Assessment Higher Education Services Clinical Assessment sales declined primarily In Higher Education Services, revenue grew in Australia due to an absence of new major strongly.
Q-Interactive, In Australia, we saw good growth due to Pearsons digital solution for Clinical our successful partnership with Monash Assessment administration, saw continued University, and continued success of the strong growth.
We have a total of c. 10,200 course registrations across In the UK, Pearson is the largest awarding organisation to offer academic and vocational qualifications, including A levels, GCSEs and vocational qualifications such as BTECs.
Aswin Nasiketh Vivekanandan pictured is a 19 year old student at Tanglin Trust School, Singapore.
In 2018 she received the Pearson Edexcel Award for the highest mark in Asia for Partnering with the A-level Chemistry and Physics.
voice of British industry Commenting on her award she said: I am thrilled to be able to pursue my CBI & Pearsons Annual Skills Report Providing world-class career aspirations thanks to my Pearson Pearson partners with CBI, the UKs qualifications.
qualifications in the UK premier business organisation, every year I have always had a keen interest in science to deliver an annual skills report.
In 2018, and passing these two subjects was a Product: Pearson Edexcel we found: requirement for me to get a place on the Employers expect to recruit more course.
And it worked, as I am now studying workers but worry there are not enough my chosen option at Imperial College London.
skilled people to fill vacancies On graduation, I am looking to explore ways 4 5 businesses aim to spend more on to help tackle some of the many problems training, but the Apprenticeship Levy we face in the world today, like global has driven a sharp drop in warming and climate change.
apprenticeship programmes Many congratulations Aswin we think you The number of businesses actively will go on to achieve great things!
engaged with schools or colleges is down by c. 10% #1 By helping to gather these insights, Overall market leader with number two position in Pearson is connecting the dots between GCSE and A-Level and students and employers, ensuring learners number one position in have the skills they need to excel in their vocational qualifications career and employers have the people they need for a rapidly changing workplace.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 58 Operating performance Revenue grew 1% in underlying terms due to Services Growth strong growth in China and modest growth English Services in Brazil and Hispano America partially Market summary offset by declines in South Africa.
In English Services, revenue grew slightly in our English language school franchise, Emerging and developing economies Adjusted operating profit increased 97%, Wizard, due to new product launches.
with investment priorities in Brazil, India, 30m, in underlying terms, reflecting higher South Africa, Hispano-America, Hong Kong revenue in China and Brazil, together with School Services & China and the Middle East.
the benefits of restructuring, partially In School Services, revenue was flat, with offset by lower revenue in South Africa.
declines in student enrolment in our public Contribution to Group revenues sistemas business in Brazil offset by price % increases, improved products and better Courseware 13 student retention across our private Courseware revenue grew slightly, Sales sistemas.
In India, Pearson MyPedia, an with strong growth in English Language inside service sistema solution for schools, Courseware in China, partially offset by 539m expanded to over 700 schools with over declines in School Courseware in South 200,000 learners.
Africa following a large one-off order in 2017.
Adjusted operating profit Higher Education Services 59m Assessment In Higher Education services revenue declined slightly due to business exits in Professional Certification and Pearson Sustainability India and slight revenue decline at Pearson Test of English Academic Institute of Higher Education formerly CTI, 28,000 Professional Certification grew well due our university in South Africa, due to a New users downloaded our Space Hero to a new ICT infrastructure certification change in mix with total enrolment broadly app designed in collaboration with refugee contract.
Pearson Test of English Academic flat and new student enrolment up 18%.
children in Jordan as part of our Save the saw strong growth in revenue with over Children partnership.
10% growth in the volume of tests taken in 2019 outlook India, China and Middle East and moderate In our Growth segment, we expect revenue price increases.
to continue to increase in 2019 benefiting from new products and services across all divisions.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 59 59 Pearson Institute of Higher Education In South Africa offers a range of different degrees, higher certificate, foundation and Pearson owns 25% of Penguin Random academic support programmes in South Africa, with a focus on preparing learners House, the first truly global consumer for the world of work.
Career outcomes are embedded into Penguin Random House performed well the curriculum of each programme and with underlying revenue growth on students are provided with the knowledge, increased audio sales and stable print skills and mindset to help them positively sales, whilst the business benefitted change the world.
from international bestseller Becoming I gained invaluable skills at PIHE, which Pearson Institute by Michelle Obama, the years top-selling I implement in my everyday life.
These include U. S. title, and bestsellers from Bill Clinton embeds career outcomes time management, planning, communication & James Patterson, Jordan Peterson, skills and self-care, which is fundamental in into curricula Jamie Oliver, Dr. Seuss, John Grisham, maintaining a balance in life, says Xia Coetzer, and Lee Child.
a PIHE graduate who is now a registered Service: Pearson Institute of Higher Education counsellor at ICAS Southern Africa.
2019 outlook 7000 In Penguin Random House, we anticipate Students enrolled at a normalised publishing performance Pearson Institute of and expect an annual after-tax Higher Education contribution of around 60-65m to our adjusted operating profit.
Pearson takes the best of our Longman Welcome to English curriculum and adds Microsofts AI capabilities to create an app that personalises English language learning at its highest possible level.
Delivered through WeChat, which has nearly a billion monthly users, this app is giving users the opportunity to learn on their own terms, when and where they want.
It is easy to use, it is specifically tailored for Chinese users as it listens to the spoken practice exercises, and it is precisely tasked to correct common pronunciation App delivers errors.
Learners receive immediate feedback and so they are able to keep track of their personalised English progress and remain interested.
language learning Longman English provides extensive English resources for students and enables them to Product: Longman English practice in various methods.
They are able to learn the content and knowledge in the text book, as well as improve their speaking skills.
I believe it will provide solid ground for our students future English learning, says Leo Liu, a teacher at Zhoushan Greentown Yuhua International School.
Over 35,000 students use Longman English to learn the English language skills they need to thrive in school and beyond.
Ultimately, Longman English is meeting learners where they already are, making it easy for them to practice English and prepare for their future.
35,000 Students use Longman DIGITAL CAPABILITIES English to learn the English Automated speech recognition language skills they need to thrive in school and beyond Automated marking and scoring Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated.
