Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 2 229 29 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the companys shares Depositary Receipts.
on the London stock market with their cash dividend.
For further information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268.
Corporate website The investors section of our corporate website Individual Savings Accounts ISAs www.
html Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more information, provides a wealth of information for shareholders.
It is also please go to www.
co. uk dealing or call customer possible to sign up to receive e-mail alerts for reports and services on 0345 300 0430. press releases relating to Pearson at www.
com corporate news media email-alert-signup.
html Share dealing facilities Shareholder information online Equiniti offers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson Shareholder information can be found on our website shares.
For further information, please contact their telephone www.
html dealing helpline on 03456 037 037 or, for online dealing, log on to www.
You will need your shareholder Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti.
For more information, please contact Please telephone 0371 384 2248 for details or log on to our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, www.
Telephone 0371 384 2233 or, Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
for those shareholders with hearing difficulties, textphone number 0371 384 2255.
ShareGift Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes Information about the Pearson share price them uneconomic to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift, the share donation charity registered charity number 1052686.
The companys share price can be found on our website at Further information about ShareGift and the charities it www.
It also appears in the financial has supported may be obtained from their website, columns of the national press.
org, or by contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.
2018 dividends Payment date Amount per share American Depositary Receipts ADRs Interim 14 September 2018 5.5 pence Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and 1 Final 10 May 2019 13 pence traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts 1 Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
and dividends, please contact Bank of New York Mellon, 2019 financial calendar Shareholder Correspondence ADR, PO Box 505000, Louisville, KY 40233-5000, telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within Ex-dividend date 4 April the US or 001 201 680 6825 outside the US.
Alternatively, Record date 5 April you may e-mail shrrelations@.
com Last date for dividend reinvestment election 16 April Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Annual General Meeting 26 April Bank of New York Mellon, and for beneficial ADR holders and or nominee accounts through your US brokerage institution.
Pearson Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment 10 May will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building society account, with the tax voucher sent to the shareholders registered address.
Equiniti can be contacted for information on 0371 384 2043.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 230 Shareholder information Share register fraud: protecting your investment Tips on protecting your shares Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference recommendations or investment advice and neither does it number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation appoint third parties to do so.
As required by law, our shareholder Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from if you do not receive your dividend cheque or, better still, Pearson with caution.
make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account For more information, please log on to our website at www.
com corporate investors managing-your-shares Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account share-register-fraud.
Reliance on this document Designed and produced by Friend www.
com The intention of this document is to provide information to shareholders and is Print: Pureprint Group not designed to be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Photographs Forward-looking statements Front cover, p23, p34, p42 and 43: Pearson College This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Pearsons financial p1 and p17: Alex Rumford condition, business and operations and its strategy, plans and objectives.
In p35: Ahmad Muhsen Save the Children particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections, p41: Jo Moon Price including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market p55: Patrice Jones trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated cost savings and synergies and the execution of Pearsons strategy, As part of its offsetting commitments Pearson has offset the carbon dioxide are forward-looking statements.
generated by the production of this report and associated documents.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Offset which is FSC certified uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the printer occur in the future.
They are based on numerous expectations, assumptions and are both certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered beliefs regarding Pearsons present and future business strategies and the to EMAS the eco management Audit Scheme.
The report was printed using environment in which it will operate in the future.
There are various factors which vegetable-based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer.
could cause Pearsons actual financial condition, results and development to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, many of which are outside Pearsons control.
These include international, national and local conditions, as well as the impact of competition.
They also include other risks detailed from time to time in Pearsons publicly-filed documents and, in particular, the risk factors set out in this document, which you are advised to read.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as required by law, Pearson gives no undertaking to update any forward-looking statements in this document whether as a result of new information, future developments, changes in its expectations or otherwise.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Pearson Annual report and accounts 2018 Principal offices www.
