PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Powering homes and businesses Our operations Energy is converted into electricity and provided directly to the grid.
Waste management Energy recovery facilities ERFs Residual household and business waste is transformed into a usable form of energy.
Weremain at the forefront of the UK resource sector, transforming waste into energy, highquality recyclates and raw materials.
co. uk Viridor has delivered a strong financial and operational performance, led by increased availability across the ERF portfolio.
We continue to work closely with our customers to deliver quality service and value for money.
We are navigating challenges in recycling markets and are well positioned to deliver improved results as markets stabilise.
Phil Piddington Managing Director, Viridor A fleet of waste collection vehicles Waste collected directly from businesses and safely transported to our facilities.
Trading recycled materials Selling recycled materials aroundtheworld.
28 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Landfill sites and powergeneration Safe disposal of waste that cannot be recycled or sent to ERFs.
100km Materials recycling facilities MRFs Materials recycling facility Energy recovery facility Separating and preparing recyclable materials for manufacturing into newrecycled products.
Key facts 8 400,000 150 energy recovery facilities potential homes powered local authority inoperation, three in by energy produced andmajor commissioning and one by our portfolio corporateclients more in construction 32,000 300 600 customers across recycling, energy waste collection vehicles theUK recovery and waste securing materials for management facilities our network of assets 7.0 1.4 Household waste recyclingcentres HWRCs million tonnes of waste million tonnes of Public disposal sites for the materialsinput recyclate traded  and non-recyclable household waste.
29 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Waste management continued Viridor is at the forefront of the resource sector in the UK, solarand landfill gas including 100% of joint ventures transforming waste into energy, high-quality recyclates at31March 2018.
Viridor exported 1.5 terawatt hours andraw materials.
We provide services to more than ofpower during the year.
150local authorities and major corporate clients as Customer experience wellasmore than 32,000 customers across the UK.
Responding to feedback from our customer service Ouractivity supports the development of a regenerative surveys for a more seamless service, we have been circular economy that seeks to keep resources in use workingto improve integration across our marketing foraslong aspossible and recover and regenerate andsales, service delivery and customer service teams.
materials at the end of their service life.
The resulting reorganisation has created a platform for launching national initiatives based on great customer service, excellent service delivery and transparent pricing.
Our operational ERFs are delivering We rolled out a number of initiatives during the year to aboveinitialbase case expectations.
benefit our customers, including training programmes forall heads of sales teams and customer service staff, developed a more customer-centric website and organised Viridor maintains strong performance a number of meet the customer days and events giving Viridor continued to develop a fully integrated service of customers the opportunity to see our facilities and what wastemanagement, recycling and recovery during the year.
Highlights of our performance include the continuing success of our ERF portfolio.
With three of our ERFs under construction Building on the success of last years customer survey, anew progressing through commissioning, we have successfully methodology has now been adopted, which allows us to implemented all phases of our ERF business model from initial gather the views of a much broader base of customers.
In concept through to completion, and our operational ERFs are November 2017 we asked more than 6,000 customers about delivering above initial base case expectations.
Wenegotiated their perception of Viridor, which provided positive feedback a reset to the contract with the Greater Manchester Waste that the reorganisation is delivering benefits to our customers Disposal Authority GMWDA, which had a positive outcome.
and identified opportunities to improve our performance and Global recycling markets have been challenging, in particular drive growth.
Of those who responded, 70% were satisfied with following changes in Chinas import regulations.
We have our service overall.
This will provide the benchmark for future partially mitigated the impact of these challenges through surveys, which will be carried out on a six-monthly basis.
self-help measures, including finding new export markets.
Weare investing in quality improvement processes in our ERFs build momentum recycling facilities as the quality of input materials has Our ERF portfolio, which turns black bag waste into energy, deteriorated while demands on the quality of outputs have is a significant asset base which performed strongly during increased.
Inlandfill, the rate of volume decline has slowed the year.
The operational ERFs delivered increased EBITDA during theyear and we are adopting a flexible strategy.
Like for like facilities contributed a 9% increase as a result of our focus on optimisation of the facilities with Total waste inputs for 2017 18 were 7.0 million tonnes, 2 the remainder reflective of a financial contribution from with2.2 million taken by our ERFs, 1.5 million going Dunbar ERF.
Our operational ERFs are delivering above tolandfill and 3.3 million taken by our recycling initial base case expectations and are helping todeliver andotherfacilities.
Viridor is one of the UKs largest independent power 1 generators from waste.
We had 274 megawatts MW 1 Including Bolton ERF.
ofoperating capacity from ERFs, anaerobic digestion, 2 Reflecting liquidated damages.
This will extend to 2.9million tonnes and 242MW in 2018 19 and 3.2million tonnes and 276MW by 2021.
Our ERF at Beddington in South London is in final commissioning, with waste deliveries being received andfinancial contribution being recognised from the first halfof 2018 19.
Work at Dunbar continues to progress, withliquidated damages expected to be received until commissioning is complete.
Both Beddington and Dunbar are expected to be completed on budget.
Progress atAvonmouth near Bristol is on schedule and budget.
Piling for the ERF building has been completed, the bunker construction is wellunderway and process steelwork is being erected.
At the Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre, the Avonmouth ERF materials recycling facility and anaerobic digestion facility Construction of the 252 million ERF in Avonmouth, on the have operated throughout the year and commissioning is outskirts of Bristol, made strong progress during the year.
The underway for the advanced combustion facility.
facility will enable local authorities and businesses to transform Including the 173 million total remaining capital expenditure 320,000 tonnes of non-recyclable residual waste each year into renewable energy, which would otherwise go to landfill.
Once for completion of the ERF portfolio, the totalinvestment in operational in 2020 21, the new ERF will generate an estimated ERFs is 1.5 billion.
34MW of low carbon energy, supplying National Grid with Environmental impacts enough electricity to power over 70,000 homes.
As part of Viridors commitment to supporting the local economy around We keep a strong focus on our environmental performance its developments, Viridor held Meet the Buyer events in Bristol and responsibilities, working closely with environmental where 30 local businesses attended, from which several local regulators the Environment Agency, Scottish Environment contracts have been awarded.
Protection Agency and Natural Resources Wales to maintain high standards of operations and compliance, and to further reduce the risk of pollution incidents.
In addition to the services Viridor offers its customers for the safe management, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes, our environment policy clearly commits Pennon to minimising hazardous Dynamic landfill strategy wastes used or produced and any impacts arising, as well Viridor operated 11 landfill sites throughout the year.
asany non-GHG emissions to air.
This is monitored via our Therate of volume decline has slowed during the year, performance, compliance and reporting against our operating andpricing has held up.
With the sites of competitors environmental permit conditions.
Our full GHG reporting can having closed and with insufficient capacity in the UK be found on pages 102 and 103.
ERFmarket, we are operating a dynamic landfill strategy.
Sites are beingkept open for longer, with the aim of optimising their long-term value, and investment will be made in new cells where there is commercially attractive demand.
We are alsoinvesting in our landfill gas business to enhance the long-term reliability of our assets.
We constructed new cells at four sites in 2017 18.
Consented landfill capacity reduced from 42.5 million cubic metres Customer base mcm to 40.5mcm, reflecting usage during the period.
33,000 We continue to manage our landfill energy business withthe aim of maximising the value of landfill gas power generation.
We are also looking at alternative commercial 32,250 development opportunities and other energy uses such asphotovoltaic and energy storage at our landfill sites.
At year end, our landfill gas sites had engine generation 31,500 capacity of 88MW, a decrease from last years 99MW.
During the year, cells at some sites were reopened to landfill, resulting in a short-term reduction in the volumes 30,750 ofgas captured.
In addition, higher engine maintenance aspart of an engine replacement programme resulted 30,000 2016 17 2017 18 31 31,990 32,292 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our operations Waste management continued inaone-time larger reduction in landfill gas power One of the most important developments in the recycling generation output for the year, down 13% to 445 gigawatt market over the past year was the change in import hours GWh.
This level of reduction is not expected to regulations in China, which has announced new quality recur.
Average revenue per megawatt hour MWh was requirements for imports of plastic and paper with the 93.39 2016 1787.16.
Average operating costs were expectation that China will take lower volumes of these 40.96 perMWh 2016 17 33.02. materials.
This does not affect other parts of our recycling operations as the metal and glass that Viridor processes Recycling stays in the UK.
Viridor retained its position as one of the leading recycling businesses in the UK, although the market environment remains challenging.
Recycling volumes traded in 2017 18 Our high-quality recyclate helps were lower than the previous year at 1.4 million tonnes, in part reflecting a decision not to retender certain contracts manufacturers reduce reliance on where the level of contamination in inputs was unacceptable.
We were active across the recycling spectrum, including mixed materials, glass, plastics and paper recycling, as Viridor anticipated this change in advance of Chinas wellas transforming food waste into organic and energy announcement and has secured new markets for plastic resources.
As one of the UKs largest glass recycling waste in the UK, Asia and elsewhere in Europe.
We are also companies, our recycling plants in Sheffield and Glasgow making additional investments and working with our supply processed more than 230,000 tonnes of glass in 2017 18. chain to improve the quality of paper recycling for China.
Self-help measures continue During the year, recycling EBITDA was 15.0 million, a The UKs national policy is to recycle as much as possible decrease of 33.9% against the previous years 22.7 million.
and Viridors operations align with that.
However, as local Around 3.0 million of the reduction related to the pricing authorities seek to cut costs, the quality of materials brought and quality implication of Chinas policy announcement.
in to our recycling assets is under pressure.
As part of our The remaining reduction of 4.7 million reflects our continuing self-help measures, we are rationalising facilities overallreduction in recycling volumes and an increase in and investing in quality improvement schemes.
processing and reject costs as a result of lower input in quality, and higher output quality demands.
EBITDA per tonne decreased by 3 year on year to 11 as a result of higher processing costs up 11 per tonne to 83 per tonne offset by higher pricing.
Revenue per tonne was up7.8% to 97 2016 17 90, reflecting a shift towards higher value output including polymers.
Compared with thesecond half of 2017 18, we anticipate market and operational improvements into 2018 19.
Sharing commodity risk and opportunity In line with the Groups strategy of achieving a balanced risk profile across its operations, we continue to work with stakeholders to share commodity risk and opportunity.
Atyear end, 65% of our contractual volumes from local authorities had been renegotiated to share recyclate commodity risk up from c. 40% last year.
Investments in glass recycling Recycling volumes traded million tonnes tomeetcustomer needs 2.0 Viridor has invested in its glass recycling facility at Newhouse near Glasgow to take comingled glass.
The site was originally designed to take only single-source separated glass bottles andjars.
The latest investments from Viridor meet the quality 1.5 standards demanded by todays bottle-makers.
Some 60% of feedstock for Newhouse comes from local authorities, with Viridor contracted to serve 17 of Scotlands 32 1.0 local authorities.
Newhouse uses a range oftechnologies such as advanced colour-sort recycling that is capable of processing both mixed and colour-segregated glass.
The output is sold to 0.5 bottle-makers, who turn it into new bottles and jars.
0.0 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 32 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.6 1.4 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Joint ventures Viridor Laing Greater Manchester VLGM, a joint venture between Viridor and John Laing, performed in line with expectations during the first half year.
As part of the contractexit, the company was sold to GMWDA at the end ofSeptember and as a result is no longer a joint venture.
The TPSCo joint venture between Viridor, John Laing andInovyn performed strongly with good availability throughout the year.
As part of the wider contract reset, GMWDA provided finance to the joint venture to enable the repayment of external bank debt.
This change in cash flows resulted in the recognition of income in this joint venture, with an amount deferred relating to the lower ongoing gate fee.
A new seventeen-year contract between TPSCo and GMWDA was signed during the year securing fuel supply for Supporting STEM science, technology, the ERF over the period covered bythe previous contract.
engineering & maths projects in schools Viridors operating contract for TPSCos Runcorn I ERF remains unchanged.
Viridor is a leading sponsor of Go4Set across Scotland, aschools educational programme challenging young peopletothink about The Lakeside ERF a 50:50 joint venture with Grundon Waste their future environment and how weutilise resources.
Management continued to perform strongly.
In its eighth year of operation, it continues to exceed its original targets The programme encourages young people to be the for both waste processing and power generation.
engineersand scientists of tomorrow and helps them develop skills in team working, communication, report writing and Community engagement problem solving all essential skills in the working world.
Viridor continues to invest in educational programmes andsupport community initiatives in the localities of our operational sites.
We have 11 educational centres which received 17,496 visitors in the year ending 31 March 2018.
Wehelped to deliver 93 outreach events.
One of our most prominent educational facilities is our visitor centre at Ardley ERF, a few miles north of Oxford.
It runs tailored Confidence in UK waste sector, educational programmes to teach children and adults about strong drivers for recycling sustainable waste management and how energy recovery fits Viridor, alongside the waste industry, has called for a new into the waste hierarchy.
In April 2018, we were longlisted for attractive framework for UK recycling to address input the Education Partnership Award as part of Business in the quality to UK materials recycling facilities, stagnant recycling Communitys Responsible Business Awards 2018. rates and producer responsibility.
We also run community liaison groups that engage in We are encouraged that the Blue Planet effect is spurring effective dialogue with community representatives.
These action and we are optimistic that positive changes may be ensure we keep in touch with our neighbours and give back announced in the Resources & Waste Strategy later this to the local communities in which we operate.
We use these yearcreating a UK recycling system fit for the future groups to provide updates on our operations and respond to including incentives for producer responsibility, consistency feedback.
Wherever possible, we have an open-door policy of household bin collections, increasing household waste so that people can see how we are transforming waste in quality, new packaging recycling targets and packaging their own community.
recovery note reform, making recycling more profitableand enabling investment and innovation.
During 2017 18, Viridor provided 7.6 million to community support, sponsorship and charitable donations.
Some Local authority contracts 7.3million of this was paid to Viridor Credits for distribution We continue to work with customers to identify mutually 1 via the Landfill Communities Fund.
beneficial enhancements to our contracts.
We have sharing mechanisms in place in our long-term local authority Our charitable donations scheme helped 114 projects contracts where returns exceed contractual hurdle levels.
supporting STEM, environmental, resource and recycling The contract to operate the recycling assets on behalf of education initiatives, communities coming together through GMWDA has entered a run off period of no less than 18 sport and community events and communities focused months from 1 October 2017 while they tender for a new onimproving the quality of life for disadvantaged and contract expected to commence in 2019.
shortlisted for two of the three lots being tendered, including We have exceeded our three-year goal to deliver 1,500 hours the operation of the main processing assets.
Performance of ofvolunteering within the local community by 2018.
In major local authority contracts was in line with expectations.
Viridor won the Our collections business continued to provide a valuable Taunton Deane Business Award TDBA CSR Award 2017 for service to our customers during the year and secured our community partnership with the Somerset Wildlife Trust.
volume for our ERF, landfill and recycling assets.
1 V iridor Credits is an independent, not-for-profit organisation that administers Viridors contributions to the Landfill Communities Fund.
33 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
