PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 59 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc will be held at 1st Floor, 43-45 Portman Square, London W1H 6LY at 11.00am on 17 July 2018 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions all of which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To re-elect Victoria Cochrane a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Alan Giles a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Richard Laing a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Bob Yerbury a Director of the Company.
To elect Mike Balfour a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors remuneration policy as set out on page 31 of the 2018 annual financial report.
To approve the Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the auditors remuneration.
Biographies of Directors seeking re-election are shown on page 17 of the annual financial report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which resolution 11 will be proposed an Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 11.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of Sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 2,404,323, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 May 2018, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 12 set out above or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 59 PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 60 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,404,323, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 May 2018. and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary shares on 17 July 2018, being the date of the AGM equivalent to 36,040,809 shares at 30 May 2018 : ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 10p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a Share must not be more than the higher of: a 5% above the average of the mid-market values of the Shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: or b that stipulated by the regulatory technical standards adopted by the EU pursuant to the Market Abuse Regulation from time to time: iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract: and vii any shares so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of Sections 724 to 731 of the Act and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 727 or 729 of the Act as treasury shares.
THAT: the period of notice required for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 clear days notice.
The resolutions are explained further in the Directors Report on pages 29 and 30. th Dated this30 May 2018 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 60 PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 61 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notes: 1.
A form of appointment of proxy accompanies this annual financial report.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his stead.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via Link Asset Services website www.
com: or in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Link Asset Services, The Registry, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
and in each case to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
The appointment of a proxy whether by completion of a form of appointment of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST proxy instruction does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting at the AGM.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A person entered on the Register of Shareholders at close of business on 15 July 2018 is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Shareholders after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the AGM.
If the AGM is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys Register of Shareholders 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
The Register of Directors Interests, the schedule of matters for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board committees and the letters of appointment for Directors will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the close of the AGM and will also be available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 61 PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 62 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 7.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address any address or number for the purposes of sending or receiving documents or information by electronic means provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 30 May 2018 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 240,432,350 ordinary shares of 10p carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 240,432,350.
A copy of this notice contained within the 2017 annual financial report, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys annual accounts and reports including the Independent Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2017: or ii any circumstance connected with the auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2017 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act in each case that the shareholders propose to raise at the relevant AGM.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam Be ScamSmart 1 Reject cold calls If you suspect that you have been If youve received unsolicited contact about approached by fraudsters please tell the an investment opportunity, chances are FCA using the reporting form at its a high risk investment or a scam.
uk consumers reportInvestment scams are should treat the call with extreme caution.
You can also call designed to look like The safest thing to do is to hang up.
the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 genuine investments 2 Check the FCA Warning List The FCA Warning List is a list of rms and If you have lost money to investment fraud, Spot the warning signs individuals we know are operating without you should report it to Action Fraud on Have you been: our authorisation.
0300 123 2040 or online at contacted out of the blue 3 Get impartial advice www.
uk promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial financial and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.
Find out more at called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
uk scamsmart told the offer is only available the rm that has approached you.
If so, you might have been Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, contacted by fraudsters.
