PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 67 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE DISCLOSURE Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive The Company falls within the definition of an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the Directive and, as such, is required to have or be an authorised AIFM.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company as such, with effect from 22 July 2014.
Amongst other things, regulations implementing AIFMD require certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk pigit in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There have been three changes to this information since 31 March 2017: As announced on 18 May 2017, described in the 2017 annual financial report and on page 27 of this report the investment management fee arrangements changed with effect from 1 April 2017: the Companys registrar changed its name to Link Asset Services from Capita Asset Services on a change of ownership in November 2017: and the legal entity appointed as depositary changed to The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited from BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited with effect from 1 December 2017.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 65 and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM IFML to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the leverage calculated for the Company at its year end was 113% for both gross and commitment 2017: both 115%.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company remain unchanged at 250% and 200%, respectively: the AIFM summary remuneration policy is available from corporate policies section of the Managers website www.
co. uk and from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 64 : and the AIFM remuneration paid for the year to 31 December 2017 is set out below.
AIFM Remuneration The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the latest financial year of the AIFM, which was to 31 December 2017.
The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the financial year of the AIFM, which is 31 December 2017.
IFML does not employ any staff directly.
All staff involved in the AIF related activities of IFML are employed and paid by Invesco UK Limited or other entities in the Invesco Limited Group.
Remuneration for staff involved in AIF related activities has been apportioned based on the average assets under management of 3,632 million for the nine AIFs managed by IFML during the reporting period.
The aggregate total remuneration apportioned to IFMLs AIF related activities for performance year 2017 is 8.64 million, of which 4.71 million is fixed remuneration and 3.93 million is variable remuneration.
The number of beneficiaries is 35.
IFML has identified individuals considered to have a material impact on the risk profile of IFML or the AIFs it manages Identified Staff, including board members of IFML, senior management, heads of control functions, other risk takers and any employees receiving total remuneration that takes them into the same remuneration bracket as senior management and risk takers whose professional activities can exert material influence on IFMLs risk profile or on an AIF it manages.
The aggregate total remuneration paid to the Identified Staff of IFML for AIF related activities is 1.63 million, of which 0.41 million is paid to senior management and 1.22 million is paid to other Identified Staff.
Please note that remuneration for AIFMD Identified Staff includes remuneration for staff employed by delegates.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 PIGIT pp59 68. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 68 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management in excess of US$972 billion.
Invesco aims to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under management as at 30 April 2018.
68 INVESTMENT COMPANIES MANAGED BY INVESCO Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities and fixed interest securities City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the income instruments.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Keystone Investment Trust plc Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has two time, grow at above the rate of inflation.
The Company may debenture stocks in issue.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited Aims to generate capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, listed mainly in the UK equity market.
The Company has secured loan stock in issue and, in addition, may use bank whilst seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and borrowings.
The Company seeks to balance the The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo of achieving: financing to enhance returns.
1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share in excess of Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and Portfolio 2. growth in dividends per share in excess of the rate of Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income UK inflation.
instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
The Company has a debenture stock in issue and, in addition, may use bank borrowings.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys of small to medium sized UK quoted companies.
The shareholders primarily by investment in a broad cross-section Company may use bank borrowings.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index, total return, in predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio of sterling terms.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Allocation Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, using transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts differing economic and inflationary environments and with low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to provide leverage.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Allocation Portfolio Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact the Invesco Perpetual Client Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16895
