Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 91 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The current Directors who are listed on pages 56 and 57 are Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance applicable law and regulations.
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the corporate and financial information included on the Companys law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial inother jurisdictions.
statements on the same basis.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial of the annual financial report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the arerequired to: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation select suitable accounting policies and then apply them taken as a whole: and consistently: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and prudent: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and state whether they have been prepared in accordance with uncertainties that they face.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Parent Company will continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Dave Jenkinson Mike Killoran Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Interim Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable 25 February 2019 them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
