KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 15 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Where the Company has received its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the cash equivalent The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in of the additional shares is recognised as income.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpreDividends from overseas companies are shown gross of tations approved by the International Accounting Standards withholding tax.
Board IASB, together with such interpretations by the Special dividends are classified as either revenue or capital International Accounting Standards and Standing Interdepending on their nature.
pretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB and still remain in effect, to the extent that these have been Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recogadopted by the European Union.
nised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment, being amortisation of The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all premium accretion of discount spread over the life of the values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 investment.
Interest income and other income is accounted for on an The principal accounting policies adopted are set out accruals basis.
Where the presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for EXPENSES investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
ExCompanies the AIC in November 2014 and updated penses are charged to revenue except those incurred in the in January 2017 is consistent with the requirements of maintenance and enhancement of the Companys assets IFRSs, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial and taking account of the expected long term returns, as statements on a basis compliant with the recommendation follows: of the SORP.
Investment advisory fees have been allocated 35 per cent.
Certain new standards, including IFRS 9 Financial Into revenue and 65 per cent.
struments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with CusTransaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of tomers, have been issued but are not effective for this investments are expensed to capital.
These have not been adopted early and the Group does not consider that the future adoption of TAXATION any new standards, in the form currently available, will In accordance with the SORP, the marginal rate of tax is have any material impact on the financial position and perapplied to taxable net revenue.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverBASIS OF CONSOLIDATION able on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the correThe consolidated financial statements incorporate the fisponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable financial statements of the Company and the entities conprofit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liabiltrolled by the Company its subsidiary made up to ity method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all 30 April each year.
Control is achieved if, and only if, the taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are Group has power over the investee i. e. existing rights that recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of profits will be available against which deductible tempothe investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from rary differences can be utilised.
its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The subsidiary INVESTMENTS is not considered an investment entity in the context of Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade IFRS 10 and has been consolidated as a controlled entity date where a purchase or sale is under a contract the terms as it supports the investment activity of the investment enof which require delivery within a period of time estabtity.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and exlished by the market concerned, and are measured at fair penses are eliminated on consolidation.
value being the consideration payable or receivable.
PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT Investments are designated in terms of IFRSs as investments held at fair value through profit or loss, and are In order better to reflect the activities of an investment measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the on the convention of the exchange on which the investment Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital is quoted.
Investments in Gold Bullion are valued using nature has been presented alongside the Income Statethe London Bullion Market Association gold price which ment.
is the global benchmark price for unallocated gold delivered in London.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are INCOME valued at the closing price released by the relevant investDividends are recognised as income when the shareholders ment manager.
The subsidiary is held at net asset value adright to receive payment has been established, normally the justed as necessary to represent the best estimate of fair ex-dividend date.
value in preparing the Companys financial statements.
Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-diviAny gain or loss arising from a movement in investments dend date is quoted are recognised when the Companys is included as a gain or loss on investments in the income right to receive payment is established.
