20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 34 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 37th Annual General value of up to 2,780,137.50, such authority to Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Limited Company will be held at The Principal General Meeting of the Company after the Edinburgh Charlotte Square formerly The Roxburghe passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 Hotel, 38 Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Thursday months from the passing of this resolution, 19 July 2018 at 12 noon for the following purposes: whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following a general meeting, save that the Company may resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary at any time prior to the expiry of this authority Resolutions: make an offer or enter into an agreement which 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to would or might require Securities to be allotted 30 April 2018 be received.
or granted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the Securities in pursuance of such an offer or year to 30 April 2018 be approved.
agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following annually, be re-elected as a Director.
resolutions which will be proposed as Special 4.
That Iain Ferguson, who retires from office at Resolutions: the first Annual General Meeting following his 12.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights appointment to the Board, be elected as a Director.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 above, and in substitution for any existing power 5.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office but without prejudice to the exercise of any such annually, be re-elected as a Director.
power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of 6.
That Paul Read, who retires from office at the the Company be and are hereby generally first Annual General Meeting following his empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the appointment to the Board, be elected as a Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity Director.
securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or 7.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office to convert securities into, Ordinary shares in the annually, be re-elected as a Director.
Company for cash either pursuant to the 8.
That Jean Sharp, who retires from office authority given by Resolution 11 above or by annually, be re-elected as a Director.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of the Act as if Section 561 1 of the 9.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office Act did not apply to any such allotment of equity annually, be re-elected as a Director.
securities, provided that this power: 10.
That PwC LLP be appointed as Auditors and a expires at the conclusion of the next that the Directors be authorised to determine Annual General Meeting of the Company their remuneration.
after the passing of this resolution or on the 11.
Authority to allot shares expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save That, in substitution for any existing authority, that the Company may, before such expiry, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such make an offer or agreement which would authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors or might require equity securities to be of the Company be and are hereby generally and allotted after such expiry and the Directors unconditionally authorised in accordance with may allot equity securities in pursuance of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the any such offer or agreement as if the power Act to exercise all the powers of the Company conferred hereby had not expired: and to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security b shall be limited to the allotment of equity into shares in the Company Securities securities up to an aggregate nominal value provided that such authority shall be limited to of 2,780,137.50, being 10 per cent.
of the the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in nominal value of the issued share capital of respect of shares with an aggregate nominal the Company at 1 June 2018.
Page 34 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 35 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED This power applies in relation to a sale of shares the five business days immediately which is an allotment of equity securities by preceding the date of purchase: and virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first ii the higher of the last independent paragraph of this resolution the words subject trade and the highest current to the passing of Resolution 11 above were independent bid on the London Stock omitted.
Share buy-back authority d unless previously varied, revoked or That, in substitution for any existing authority renewed by the Company in a General but without prejudice to the exercise of any such Meeting, the authority hereby conferred authority prior to the date hereof, the Company shall expire at the conclusion of the be and is hereby generally and unconditionally Companys next Annual General Meeting authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with or on 31 October 2019, whichever is the Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the earlier, save that the Company may, prior Act, to make market purchases within the to such expiry, enter into a contract to meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully purchase Ordinary shares under such paid Ordinary shares of 12.50 each in the authority which will or might be completed capital of the Company Ordinary shares or executed wholly or partly after the either for retention as Treasury shares for future expiration of such authority and may make reissue, resale or transfer or for cancellation, a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to provided that: any such contract.
a the maximum aggregate number of 14.
That a General Meeting of the Company other Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be than an Annual General Meeting may be called purchased is 333,395 or, if less, the number on not less than 14 clear days notice provided representing 14.99% of the issued share that this authority shall expire at the conclusion capital of the Company at the date of the of the next Annual General Meeting of the passing of this resolution: Company.
b the minimum price excluding expenses By Order of the Board which may be paid for each Ordinary share is 12.50: Steven K Davidson c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share Secretary shall not be greater than the higher of: 10 St Colme Street i 5 per cent.
above the average middle Edinburgh EH3 6AA market quotation on the London Stock Exchange of an Ordinary share over 1 June 2018 Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at 3.
As an alternative to completing the hard copy proxy form the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to you can appoint a proxy electronically at sharevote.
attend, speak and vote on her or his behalf.
Such proxy For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid, your need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
If appointment must be received by the Companys registrar appointing more than one proxy, each proxy must be not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares the time of the meeting.
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is 4.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with Companys share register not later than 6.30 pm on 17 July the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, 2018 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.30 pm on the day Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less which is 2 days excluding non-working days prior to the than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the date of the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend time appointed for the meeting together with any power of and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a on the Companys share register after that time shall be shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to person.
attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any Page 35 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 36 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED provision in any enactment, the Articles of Association of under such an agreement to give instructions to the person the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the 5.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
corporate representatives do not do so in relation to the 8.
At 1 June 2018, the latest practicable date prior to same shares.
publication of this document, the Companys issued share 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies capital comprised 2,224,118 Ordinary shares of 12.50 each through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service with a total of 2,224,118 voting rights.
may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof 9.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
of the total voting rights in by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual, the Company who appoints a person other than the and by logging on to the website www.
Chairman as her or his proxy must ensure that both he or CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored she and such third party comply with their respective members, and those CREST members who have appointed disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST Transparency Rules.
sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Information regarding the meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made available from the Companys website, www.
using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be 11.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Company must answer any question relating to the Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member information required for such instruction, as described in attending the meeting unless: the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it a answering the question would interfere unduly with constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment the preparation for the meeting or involve the to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, disclosure of confidential information: must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be b the answer has already been given on a website in received by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited ID the form of an answer to a question: or RA 19, by no later than 12 noon on 17 July 2018.
No such c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or message received through the CREST network after this the good order of the meeting that the question be time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt answered.
will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST 12.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any application host from which the Companys Registrar is telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be able to retrieve the message by inquiry to CREST in the set out in this notice of meeting or in any related documents manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change including the proxy form is not to be used for the of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST purposes of serving information or documents on, or should be communicated to the appointee through other otherwise communicating with, the Company for any means.
purposes other than those expressly stated.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 13.
The members of the Company may require the Company sponsors or voting service providers should note that without payment to publish, on its website, a statement Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available which is also to be passed to the Auditors setting out any special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is The Company will be required to do so once it has received the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take such requests from either members representing at least 5 or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, per cent.
of the total voting rights of the Company or at or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and provider s, to procure that her or his CREST sponsor or hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid voting service provider s take s such action as shall be up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means requests must be made in writing and must state the of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this senders full name and address and be sent to the connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their Companys registered address at 10 St Colme Street, CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual 14.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and and the service contract of the Executive Director will be timings.
available for inspection at the registered office of the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Company during normal business hours on any weekday Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the date of this notice and at the location of the meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the 7.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons meeting.
whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications 15.
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Nominated Company to give notice of any resolution which can Persons may have a right under an agreement with the properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant member who holds the shares on their behalf to be to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
require the Company to include a matter in the business to Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a be dealt with at the meeting, pursuant to section 338A of right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right the Companies Act 2006.
