STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION B.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE Segmental measure of performance: Operating Profit B1.
Segmental analysis The Company uses a non-GAAP measure of performance, beingoperating profit, to evaluate segment performance.
The Group defines and presents operating segments in Operating profit is considered to provide a comparable measure accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires such ofthe underlying performance of the business as it excludes the segments to be based on the information which is provided to the impact of short-term economic volatility and other one-off items.
Board, and therefore segmental information in this note This measure incorporates an expected return, including a ispresented on a different basis from profit or loss in the longer-term return on financial investments backing shareholder consolidated financial statements.
and policyholder funds over the period, with consistent allowance An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages for the corresponding expected movement in liabilities.
Annuity in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur new business profits are included in operating profit using expenses, including revenues and expenses relating to valuation assumptions consistent with the pricing of the business transactions with other components of the Group.
including the Companys expected longer-term asset allocation backing the business.
Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, the Group has reassessed its operating segments to Operating profit includes the effect of variances in experience reflect the way the business is now being managed.
The Group fornon-economic items, such as mortality and expenses, and now has four reportable segments comprising UK Heritage, UK theeffect of changes in non-economic assumptions.
It also Open, Europe and Management Services, as set out in note B1.1.
incorporates the impacts of significant management actions In the prior year, the Group had one operating segment being where such actions are consistent with the Companys core Phoenix Life which provided a range of whole life, term assurance operating activities for example, actuarial modelling enhancements and pension products.
Comparative segmental information for and data reviews.
Operating profit is reported net of policyholder prior periods has been presented on a basis consistent with the finance charges and policyholder tax.
Operating profit excludes the impact of the following items: For management purposes, the Group is organised into business the difference between the actual and expected experience units based on their products and services.
For reporting foreconomic items and the impacts of changes in economic purposes, business units are aggregated where they share similar assumptions on the valuation of liabilities see notes B2.2 economic characteristics including the nature of products and andB2.3 : services, types of customers and the nature of the regulatory amortisation and impairments of intangible assets net of environment.
No such aggregation has been required in the policyholder tax : current year.
Prior to the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, Phoenix Life was considered to be the Groups only finance costs attributable to owners: reportable segment, which included the Groups operating gains or losses on the acquisition or disposal of subsidiaries insurance entities and the Management Services entities in netof related costs : theGroup.
the financial impacts of mandatory regulatory change: The UK Heritage segment contains UK businesses which no the profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests: longer actively sell products to policyholders and which therefore run-off gradually over time.
These businesses will integration, restructuring or other significant one-off projects: acceptincremental premiums on in-force policies, and will provide and annuities to existing policyholders with vesting products.
Bulk any other items which, in the Directors view, should be Purchase Annuity contracts are included in this segment.
disclosed separately by virtue of their nature or incidence The UK Open segment includes new and in-force life insurance toenable a full understanding of the Companys financial and investment policies in respect of products that the Group performance.
This is typically the case where the nature continues to actively market to new and existing policyholders.
oftheitem is not reflective of the underlying performance This includes products such as workplace pensions and Selfoftheoperating companies.
Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs distributed through the Whilst the excluded items are important to an assessment Groups Strategic Partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen plc oftheconsolidated financial performance of the Group, SLA plc, and alsoproducts sold under the SunLife brand.
management considers that the presentation of the operating The Europe segment includes business written in Ireland and profit metric provides useful information for assessing the Germany.
This will include products that are actively being performance of the Groups operating segments on an ongoing marketed to new policyholders, and legacy in-force products basis.
The IFRS results are significantly impacted by the thatare no longer being sold to new customers.
amortisation of intangible balances arising on acquisition, the one-off costs of integration activities and the costsof servicing The Management Services segment comprises income from debt used to finance acquisition activity, which are not indicative of thelife and holding companies in accordance with the respective the underlying operational performance of the Groups segments.
management service agreements less fees related to the outsourcing of services and other operating costs.
Furthermore, the hedging strategy of the Group is calibrated toprotect the capital Solvency II surplus position and cash Unallocated Group includes consolidation adjustments and Group generation capability of the operating companies, as opposed financing including finance costs which are managed on a Group tothe IFRS financial position.
This can create additional volatilityin basis and are not allocated to individual operating segments.
the IFRS result which is excluded from the operating profit metric.
Inter-segment transactions are set on an arms length basis in a The Company therefore considers that operating profit provides manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segmental results amore representative indicator of the ability of the Groups include those transfers between business segments which are operating companies to generate cash available for the servicing then eliminated on consolidation.
ofthe Groups debts and for distribution to shareholders.
Accordingly, the measure is more closely aligned with the business model of the Group and how performance is managed by those charged with governance.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 133
