ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Group assesses its financial performance based on a number of measures.
Some measures are management derived measures of historic or future financial performance, position or cash flows of the Group: which are notdefined or specified inaccordance with relevant financial reporting frameworks such asInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS orSolvency II.
These measures are known as Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
APMs are disclosed to provide stakeholders with further helpful information on the performance of the Group and should beviewed as complementary to, rather than a substitute for, the measures determined according to IFRS and Solvency II requirements.
Accordingly, these APMs maynot be comparable with similarly titled measures anddisclosures by other companies.
A list of the APMs used in our results as well as their definitions, whytheyare used and, if applicable, how they can be reconciled tothenearest equivalent GAAP measure is provided below.
Further discussion of these measures can be found inthebusiness reviewonpage 28 and the definitions of all APMs are included in theglossary on page 234.
Reconciliation to APM Definition Why is this measure used financialstatements Assets under The Groups Assets under Administration AUA AUA indicates the potential earnings capability of A reconciliation from the Groups Administration represents assets administered by or on behalf of theGroup arising from its insurance and investment IFRS consolidated statement of theGroup, covering both policyholder fund and business.
AUA flows provide a measure of the financial position to the Groups shareholder assets.
It includes assets recognised in Groupsability to deliver new business growth.
AUA is provided on page 222. the Groups IFRS consolidated statement offinancial position together with certain assets administered bythe Group for which beneficial ownership resides with customers.
Financial Financial leverage is calculated by Phoenix using Fitch The Group seeks to manage the level of debt on The debt and equity figures are leverage ratio Ratings stated methodology as debt as a percentage itsbalance sheet by monitoring its financial leverage directly sourced from the Groups of the sum of debt and equity.
Debt is defined as the ratio.
This is to ensure the Group maintains its IFRS consolidated statement of IFRS carrying value of shareholder borrowings.
Equity investment grade credit rating as issued by Fitch financial position on pages 123 is defined as the sum of equity attributable to the Ratings and optimises its funding costs and financial and 124 and the analysis of owners of the parent excluding goodwill, the flexibility for future acquisitions.
borrowings note on page 155. unallocated surplus and the Tier 1 Notes.
New business Represents the increase in Solvency II shareholder This measure is considered a prudent proxy forthe New business contribution is not contribution Own funds arising from new business written in the future cash generation that is expected to emerge directly reconcilable to the Groups year, adjusted to exclude the associated risk margin overthe life of contracts written in the period.
Solvency II metrics as it represents and any restrictions in respect of contract boundaries an in-year movement.
Further and stated on a net of tax basis.
analysis is provided on page 31.
Operating Cash remitted by the Groups operating companies The statement of consolidated cash flows prepared in Operating companies cash companies to the Groups holding companies.
accordancewith IFRS combines cash flows generation is not directly cash  with cash flows relating reconcilable to an equivalent generation topolicyholders, but the practical management GAAP measure IFRS statement ofcashwithin the Group maintains a distinction of consolidated cash flows as it betweenthe two.
The Group therefore focuses includes amounts thateliminate onthecash flows ofthe holding companies on consolidation.
Such cash flows Further details of holding areconsidered more representative of the cash companies cash flows are generationthat could potentially be distributed included within the business asdividends or used for debt repayment and review on page 28 and a servicing, group expenses and pension contributions.
breakdown of the Groups cash Operating companies cash generation is a key position by type of entity is performance indicator used by management for provided in the additional life planning, reporting and executive remuneration.
company asset disclosures section on page 222.
Operating Operating profit is a financial performance measure This measure provides a more representative view A reconciliation of operating profit profit based on expected long-term investment returns.
It ofthe Groups performance than the IFRS result after to the IFRS result before tax is stated before tax and non-operating items including tax as it provides long-term performance information attributable to owners is included amortisation and impairments of intangibles, finance unaffected by short-term economic volatility and in the business review on page 28 costs attributable to owners and other non-operating one-off items, and is stated net of policyholder and in the primary financial items which in the Directors view should be financecharges and tax.
statements on page 121. excluded by their nature or incidence to enable It helps give stakeholders a better understanding afullunderstanding of financial performance.
oftheunderlying performance of the Group by Further details of the components of this measure identifying and analysing non-operating items.
and the assumptions inherent in the calculation of the long-term investment return are included in note B1.2 to the IFRS consolidated financial statements.
Phoenix Life The Solvency II surplus of the life companies This figure provides a view of the level of surplus Please see business review FreeSurplus thatisinexcess of their Boardapproved capital capitalin the Life companies that is available for section page 28 for further management policies.
distribution to the holding companies, and the analysis of the solvency positions generation of Free Surplus underpins future of the life companies.
Shareholder Represents total Eligible Own Funds divided by the The unsupported with-profit funds and Group pension Further details of the Shareholder Capital Solvency Capital Requirements SCR, adjusted funds do not contribute to the Group Solvency II Capital Coverage Ratio and its Coverage toashareholder view through the exclusion surplus.
However, the inclusion of related Own Funds calculation are included in the Ratio ofamounts relating to those ring-fenced withand SCR amounts dampens the implied Solvency II business review on page28 profitfunds and Group pension schemes capital ratio.
andtheadditional capital whoseOwnFunds exceed theirSCR.
The Group therefore focuses on a shareholder view ofthe capital coverage ratio which is considered to givea more accurate reflection of the capital strength of the Group.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 230
