NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED I.
Share-based payment continued The Groups capital management is based on the Solvency II I1.3 Movements in the year continued framework.
This involves a valuation in line with Solvency II The weighted average fair value of options granted during the principles of the Groups Own Funds and risk-based assessment year was 5.75 2017: 4.75. of the Groups Solvency Capital Requirement SCR.
This note sets out the Groups approach to managing capital and The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for provides an analysis of Own Funds and SCR.
Risk and capital management objectives The weighted average remaining contractual life for the The risk management objectives and policies of the Group rewards outstanding as at 31 December 2018 is six years arebased on the requirement to protect the Groups 2017: six years.
regulatorycapital position, thereby safeguarding policyholders guaranteed benefits whilst also ensuring the Group can meet I2.
Cash flows from operating activities its various cash flow requirements.
Subject to this, the Group seeks to use available capital to achieve increased returns, The following analysis gives further detail behind the cash utilised balancing risk and reward, to generate additional value for by operations figure in the statement of consolidated cash flows.
2018 2017 In pursuing these objectives, the Group deploys financial m m andother assets and incurs insurance contract liabilities Profit loss for the period before tax 260 7 andfinancial and other liabilities.
Financial and other assets Non-cash movements in profit for the principally comprise investments in equity securities, fixed year before tax: andvariable rate income securities, collective investment Gain on acquisition 141 schemes, property, derivatives, reinsurance, trade and otherreceivables, and banking deposits.
Financial liabilities Fair value losses gains on: principally comprise investment contracts, borrowings for Investment property 18 9 financing purposes, derivative liabilities and net asset value Financial assets and attributable to unit holders.
 12,861 2,896 Borrowings 29 23 The risk management disclosures in the consolidated financial statements set out the major risks that the Group businesses Amortisation of intangible assets 214 126 are exposed to and describe the Groups approach to managing Change in present value these.
The section on financial risk is included in note E6, offutureprofits 1 5 thesection on insurance risk is included in note F4 and the Change in unallocated surplus 88 46 sections on risk and capital management objectives and other Share-based payment charge 9 8 risks are included below.
The Groups risk management framework is described in the risk management commentary Interest expense on borrowings 142 132 on pages 39 to 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Premium paid on partial redemption of 300 million unsecured bond 25 Other risks Net interest expense onGroup Customer risk defined benefit pension scheme Customer risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or asset liability 6 11 value, through inappropriate or poor customer treatment Pension past service costs 57 including poor advice.
Other costs of pension schemes 6 5 Operational risk Decrease in investment assets 5,230 4,411 Operational risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or Decrease in reinsurance assets 681 1,154 value, through financial or reputational loss, from inadequate Decrease in insurance contract or failed internal processes and systems, or from people andinvestment contract liabilities 19,186 1,933 related or external events.
Decrease in deposits received Capital Management Framework fromreinsurers 178 24 The Groups Capital Management Framework is designed to Decrease increase in obligation achieve the following objectives: forrepayment of collateral received 568 338 Net decrease increase to provide appropriate security for policyholders and meet all inworkingcapital 328 113 regulatory capital requirements under the Solvency II regime Other Items while not retaining unnecessary excess capital: Contributions to defined benefit to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet obligations to pension schemes 46 90 policyholders and other creditors: Acquisition related expenses to be to optimise the Fitch Ratings financial leverage to maintain included within cash flows from an investment grade credit rating: and investing activities 43 to maintain a stable and sustainable dividend policy.
Cash utilised generated byoperations 324 1,156 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 210 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION I3.
Capital management continued In December 2015, the Group was granted the PRAs approval for use of its Internal Model to assess capital requirements.
The framework comprises a suite of capital management Following the 2016 acquisitions of the AXA Wealth and Abbey policies that govern the allocation of capital throughout the Life businesses, the Group obtained the PRAs approval Group to achieve the framework objectives under a range of toincorporate the acquired AXA Wealth and Abbey Life stress conditions.
The policy suite is defined with reference businesses within the scope of the Groups Internal Model topolicyholder security, creditor obligations, owner dividend inMarch 2017 and March 2018 respectively.
The capital policy and regulatory capital requirements.
assessment of the Abbey Life business remained on a Standard Formula basis as at 31 December 2017.
Therefore, Group capital the Solvency II position of the Group at that date was based Group capital is managed on a Solvency II basis.
Under partially on the Groups Internal Model and partially on theSolvency II framework, the primary sources of capital Standard Formula.
managed by the Group comprises the Groups Own Funds asmeasured under the Solvency II principles adjusted to The acquired Standard Life Assurance businesses also exclude surplus funds attributable to the Groups unsupported determine their capital requirements in accordance with with-profit funds and unsupported pension schemes.
In accordance with the approvals received from the PRA, the Enlarged Group A Solvency II capital assessment involves valuation in line operates a partial Internal Model to calculate Group SCR, withSolvency II principles of the Groups Own Funds and aggregating outputs from both the existing Phoenix Internal arisk-based assessment of the Groups Solvency Capital Model and the Standard Life Internal Model with no Requirement SCR.
Solvency II surplus is the excess diversification between the two.
A harmonisation programme ofOwnFunds over the SCR.
to combine the two models into a single Internal Model has commenced.
The Irishlife entity, Standard Life International The Group aims to maintain a Solvency II surplus at least equal Designated Activity Company, determines its capital to its Board approved capital policy, which reflects Board risk requirements in accordance with the Standard Formula.
appetite for meeting prevailing solvency requirements.
Group capital resources unaudited The capital policy of each Life Company is set and monitored The Group capital resources are based on the Groups by each Life Company Board.
These policies ensure there is EligibleOwn Funds adjusted to remove amounts pertaining to sufficient capital within each Life Company to meet regulatory unsupported with-profit funds and Group pension schemes: capital requirements under a range of stress conditions.
The capital policy of each Life Company varies according to 2018 2017 the risk profile and financial strength of the company.
Unaudited bn bn PGH plc Eligible Own Funds 10.3 6.6 The capital policy of each Group Holding Company is designed to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity to meet creditor Remove Own Funds pertaining to obligations through the combination of cash buffers and unsupported with-profit funds and cashflows from the Groups operating companies.
thePGL pension scheme 2.3 2.0 Group capital resources 8.0 4.6 Own Funds and SCR Basic Own Funds represents the excess of assets over Solvency II surplus liabilities from the Solvency II balance sheet adjusted to add Until 1 July 2017, the Groups Solvency II assessment and back any relevant subordinated liabilities that meet the criteria Group supervision was performed at the PLHL level as this to be treated as capital items.
was the highest EEA insurance holding company.
A waiver which permitted Group supervision to take place at the level The Basic Own Funds are classified into three Tiers based of the ultimate parent, Old PGH, via other methods as onpermanency and loss absorbency Tier 1 being the highest opposed to full Group supervision expired on 30 June 2017. quality and Tier 3 the lowest.
The Groups Own Funds are The Groups capital position is now being managed at the assessed for their eligibility to cover the Group SCR with PGHplc level only.
reference to both the quality of capital and its availability and transferability.
Surplus funds in with-profit funds of the Life An analysis of the PGH plc Solvency II surplus as at companies and in the pension schemes are restricted and 31 December 2018 is provided in the business review canonly be included in Eligible Own Funds up to the value sectionon page 28.
The Group has complied with all ofthe SCR they are used to support.
externally imposed capital requirements during the year.
Eligible Own Funds to cover the SCR are obtained after Additional information on the PGH plc Own Funds, SCR applying the prescribed Tiering limits and transferability andMCR is included in the additional capital disclosures restrictions to the Basic Own Funds.
The SCR is calibrated so that the likelihood of a loss exceeding the SCR is less than 0.5% over one year.
This ensures that capital is sufficient to withstand a broadly 1 in 200 year event.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 211
