STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION H. INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES H1.1 Significant restrictions The ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Group in H1.
Subsidiaries theform of cash dividends or to repay loans and advances is Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that effective control subject to local laws, regulations and solvency requirements.
isobtained by the Group see basis of consolidation in note A1 andare excluded from consolidation from the date they cease to Each UK Life company and the Group must retain sufficient be subsidiary undertakings.
For subsidiaries disposed of during the capital at all times to meet the regulatory capital requirements year, any difference between the net proceeds, plus the fair value mandated by or otherwise agreed with the PRA.
Further of any retained interest, and the carrying amount of the subsidiary information on the capital requirements applicable to Group including non-controlling interests, is recognised in the entities are set out in the Capital Management note I3.
UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a UK company The Group uses the acquisition method to account for the has distributable reserves sufficient to cover thedividend.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is In addition, contractual requirements may place restrictions recognised as goodwill.
In certain acquisitions an excess of the onthe transfer of funds as follows: acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and non-controlling interests, the Pearl Pension Scheme funding agreement includes over cost may arise.
Where this occurs, the surplus of the fair certain covenants which restrict the transfer of funds value of net assets acquired over the fair value of the consideration withinthe Group.
Details are provided in note G6.
is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Pearl Life Holdings Limited PeLHL is required to Directly attributable acquisition costs are included within makepayments of contributions into charged accounts administrative expenses, except for acquisitions undertaken prior to 2010 when they are included within the cost of the acquisition.
onbehalf of the Abbey Life Scheme.
These amounts Costs directly related to the issuing of debt or equity securities are donotform part of the pension scheme assets and included within the initial carrying amount of debt or equity securities at31 December 2018, PeLHL held 46 million where these are not carried at fair value.
Intra-group balances and 2017: 40 million within fixed and variable rate income income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are securities and 1 million 2017: 5 million within cash and eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
cash equivalents in respect of these charged accounts.
The Group has invested in a number of collective investment Further details of when these amounts may become schemes such as Open-ended Investments Companies OEICs, payable to the pensions scheme are included in note G6.
unit trusts, Socit dInvestissement Capital Variable SICAVs, investment trusts and private equity funds.
Acquisitions inequities, bonds, property and cash and cash equivalents.
The H2.1 Acquisition of Standard Life Assurance businesses Groups percentage ownership in these collective investment schemes can fluctuate according to the level of Group and third On 31 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued party participation instructures.
share capital of Standard Life Assurance Limited, Standard Life Pensions Fund Limited, Standard Life International When assessing control over collective investment schemes, theGroup considers those factors described under the Basis of Designated Activity Company, Vebnet Holdings Limited, consolidation in note A1.
In particular, the Group considers the Vebnet Limited, Standard Life Lifetime Mortgages Limited, scope of its decision-making authority, including the existence Standard Life Assets and Employee Services Limited and ofsubstantive rights such as power of veto, liquidation rights Standard Life Investment Funds Limited together known as andthe right to remove the fund manager that give it the ability the Standard Life Assurance businesses from SLA plc for todirect the relevant activities of the investee.
The assessment total consideration of 2,994 million.
The consideration ofwhether rights are substantive rights, and the circumstances consisted of 1,971 million of cash funded by a fully under which the Group has the practical ability to exercise them, underwritten rights issue of 950 million, with the remaining requires the exercise of judgement.
This assessment includes a balance of 1,021 million funded by a mix of new debt and qualitative consideration of the rights held by the Group that are attached to its holdings in the collective investment schemes, Phoenixs own resources.
In addition, SLA plc took a 19.99% rights that arise from contractual arrangements between the equity stake in the Enlarged Group on completion valued at Group and the entity or fund manager and the rights held by third 1,023 million, based on the share price at 31 August 2018. parties.
Inaddition, consideration is made of whether the Group has fide facto power, for example, where third party investments in the collective investment schemes are widely dispersed.
Where Group companies are deemed to control such collective investment schemes they are consolidated in the Group financial statements, with the interests of external third parties recognised as a liability, see the accounting policy for Net asset value attributable to unitholders in note E1.
Certain of the collective investment schemes have noncoterminous period ends and are consolidated on the basis ofadditional financial statements prepared to the period end.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 195 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED H. INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES  H2.
Acquisitions continued The table below summarises the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as at the date of acquisition.
Fair value Notes m Assets Intangible assets: Acquired in-force business G7 2,931 Other intangibles G7 36 Property, plant and equipment G8 19 Investment property G9 5,878 Financial assets 150,709 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities F1 4,264 Other insurance assets 64 Current tax 195 Prepayments and accrued income 353 Other receivables 613 Cash and cash equivalents 3,643 Total assets 168,705 Liabilities Liabilities under insurance contracts F1 51,487 Investment contract liabilities 102,206 Unallocated surplus F2 525 Other financial liabilities 8,859 Provisions G1 269 Deferred tax G2 667 Reinsurance payables 6 Payables related to direct insurance contracts 342 Current tax 66 Accruals and deferred income 32 Other payables 820 Bank overdraft 26 Total liabilities 165,305 Non-controlling interest D4 265 Fair value of net assets acquired 3,135 Gain arising on acquisition 141 Purchase consideration transferred 2,994 Analysis of cashflows on acquisition: Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries included in cash flow from investing activities 3,617 Cash paid including transaction costs 2,010 Net cash flow on acquisition 1,607 Acquired Value in-Force AVIF and other intangibles An asset of 2,931 million arises reflecting the present value offuture profits associated with the acquired in-force business.
Under the Groups accounting policy see note G7, AVIF arising on acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF is measured as the difference between the fair value of contractual rights acquired and obligations assumed and the liability measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies for such contracts.
AVIF relating to investment contracts without DPF, is recognised at its fair value.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 196 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION H2.
Acquisitions continued equitymarket gains in the period from February to August 2018.
Accordingly, a gain on acquisition has arisen on the transaction.
Acquired Value in-Force AVIF and other intangibles continued At the time of the announcement, the Group entered into The valuation of the AVIF has been determined by reference to arrangements to hedge the shareholder exposure to equity the assumptions expected to be applied by a market participant andcurrency risk in the Standard Life Assurance businesses in an orderly transaction.
The valuation approach uses present inthe period prior to completion of the transaction.
value techniques applied to the best estimate cash flows Losses of143 million were recognised on these hedges expected to arise from policies that were in-force at the withinnet investment income during this period.
acquisition date, adjusted to reflect the price of bearing the These lossesoffset the gain arising on acquisition.
uncertainty inherent in those cash flows.
This approach incorporates a number of judgments and assumptions which Transaction costs have impacted on the resultant valuation, the most significant Transaction costs of 43 million have been expensed and are ofwhich include mortality rates, expected policy lapses and included in administrative expenses in the consolidated income surrender costs, and the expenses associated with servicing statement.
39 million of these costs were paid during the period.
the policies, together with economic assumptions such as future investment returns and the discount rate allowing for Impact of the acquisition on results anappropriate illiquidity premium based on the assets existing From the date of acquisition, the Standard Life Assurance at the balance sheet date.
The determination of the majority businesses contributed 775 million of total revenue, net of ofthese assumptions is carried out on a consistent basis with reinsurance payable, and 208 million of the profit after the tax that described in note F4.1 with appropriate adjustments to attributable to owners of the parent.
If the acquisition of the reflect a market participant view.
The risk adjustment for the Standard Life Assurance businesses had taken place at the uncertainty in the cashflows has been determined using a beginning of the year, total revenue net of reinsurance payable, costof capital approach.
would have been 4,186 million and the profit after the tax attributable to owners of the parent would have been Deferred acquisition costs of 584 million and deferred 439 million.
frontend fees of 139 million, recognised by the Standard Life Assurance businesses have been derecognised on H3.
Associates: investment in UK commercial property trust acquisition and replaced with the AVIF.
limited UKCPT UKCPT is a property investment company which is domiciled inGuernsey and is admitted to the official list A separately identifiable intangible asset of 36 million relating to of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock the Client Service and Proposition Agreement CSPA entered Exchange.
into between Phoenix and SLA plc has been recognised in the acquisition balance sheet.
This reflects the value associated with The Groups interest in UKCPT is held in the with-profit funds of the receipt of marketing, distribution and customer relationship the Groups life companies.
Therefore, the shareholder exposure services from SLA plc at a nil or below market rate cost and the to fair value movements in the Groups investment in UKCPT is rights acquired for the usage of the Standard Life brand for the limited to the impact of those movements on the shareholder marketing of certain specified products.
Further details are set share of distributed profits of the relevant fund.
The asset has been valued using a multi-period excess earnings method.
The useful economic life of the As at 31 December 2018, the Group held 44.7% 2017: 47.9% intangible has been assessed as 15 years.
of the issued share capital of UKCPT and the value of this investment, measured at fair value, was 496 million Other receivables 2017: 550 million.
Management has concluded that the The financial assets acquired include other receivables with Group did not control UKCPT in either the current or afair value of 613 million.
The gross amount due under the comparative periods.
The Group does not hold a unilateral contracts is 613 million, of which no balances are expected power of veto in general meetings and is restricted by the to be uncollectible.
termsof an existing relationship agreement it has with UKCPT.
Tax Summary financial information at 100% forUKCPT is The tax impact of the fair value adjustments recognised on shownbelow: acquisition has been reflected in the acquisition balance sheet.
2018 2017 Goodwill m m A gain on acquisition of 141 million has been recognised inthe Non-current assets 1,431 1,336 consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018, reflecting the excess of the fair value of the net assets Current assets 67 143 acquired over the consideration paid for the acquisition of the Non-current liabilities 249 250 Standard Life Assurance businesses.
Current liabilities 36 24 The cash consideration for the acquisition was fixed and determined 1,213 1,205 using a locked box pricing mechanism based on the position as at31 December 2017, and recalibrated to reflect market conditions Revenue 85 161 upon announcement of the transaction in February 2018.
Profit before tax 59 135 The netassets acquired were recognised in the consolidated financial statements at their fair values on 31 August 2018.
Taxation 6 4 Market movements and the impact of business written during 2018 Profit for the year after tax 53 131 increased the value of the in-force business as at the acquisition datecompared to that assumed in the pricing basis, most notably PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 197
