STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES Associates E1.
Fair values Investments in associates that are held for investment purposes are accounted for under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Financial assets and Measurement as permitted by IAS 28 Investments in Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the Associates and Joint Ventures.
These are measured at fair value trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase through profit or loss.
There is no investment in associates which or sell the asset.
The majority of the Groups loans and deposits are designated as Derecognition of financial assets loans and receivables and are non-derivative financial assets with A financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active isderecognised where: market and only include assets where a security has not been The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: issued.
These loans and deposits are initially recognised at cost, The Company retains the right to receive cash flows from being the fair value of the consideration paid for the acquisition theassets, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full ofthe investment.
All transaction costs directly attributable to without material delay to a third party under a pass-through theacquisition are also included in the cost of the investment.
arrangement: or Subsequent to initial recognition, these investments are carried atamortised cost, using the effective interest method.
The Group The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows holdsa portfolio of loans that are designated at FVTPL.
from the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor Derivative financial instruments are largely classified as held for retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, trading.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently buthas transferred control of the asset.
are remeasured to fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments are not classified as held for On initial recognition, financial liabilities are recognised when trading where they are designated and effective as a hedging dueand measured at the fair value of the consideration received instrument.
For such instruments, the timing of the recognition less directly attributable transaction costs with the exception of ofany gain or loss that arises on remeasurement to fair value in liabilities at FVTPL for which all transaction costs are expensed.
profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities except for Equities, fixed and variable rate income securities, collective liabilities under investment contracts without DPF and other investment schemes and certain loans and deposits are liabilities designated at FVTPL are measured at amortised cost designated at FVTPL and accordingly arestated in the statement using the effective interest method.
of consolidated financial position at fairvalue.
They are designated Financial liabilities are designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL at FVTPL because this is reflective of the manner in which the and where doing so results in more meaningful information financial assets are managed and reduces a measurement because either: inconsistency that would otherwise arise with regard to the insurance liabilities that the assets are backing.
it eliminates or significantly reduces accounting mismatches thatwould otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or Reinsurers share of investment contracts liabilities without recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or DPFare valued on a basis consistent with investment contracts a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed liabilities without DPF as detailed under the Financial liabilities and its performance is evaluated and managed on a fair value section below.
basis, in accordance with a documented risk management Impairment of financial assets orinvestment strategy, and information about the investments The Group assesses at each period end whether a financial asset isprovided internally on that basis to the Groups key or group of financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
TheGroup first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
If it is determined that no objective evidence ofimpairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, orcontinues to be recognised, are not included in the collective assessment of impairment.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded securities and derivatives are based on quoted market prices at the period end.
The quoted market price used for financial assets is the applicable bid price on the period end date.
The fair value of investments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques such as broker quotes, pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on marketrelated data at the period end.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based oncontractual cash flows using current market conditions and market calibrated discount rates and interest rate assumptions forsimilar instruments.
For units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies, fair value is determined by reference to published bid-values.
The fair value of receivables and floating rate and overnight deposits with credit institutions is their carrying value.
The fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits is estimated usingdiscounted cash flow techniques.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 143 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities E1.
Fair values continued Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is Investment contracts without DPF alegally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment and settle the liability simultaneously.
When financial assets and contracts and accounted for as financial liabilities.
liabilities are offset any related interest income and expense is offset in the income statement.
Receipts and payments on investment contracts without DPF areaccounted for using deposit accounting, under which the Hedge accounting amounts collected and paid out are recognised in the statement The Group designates certain derivatives as hedging instruments ofconsolidated financial position as an adjustment to the liability in order to effect cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge tothe policyholder.
relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk The valuation of liabilities on unit-linked contracts is held at the management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various fairvalue of the related assets and liabilities.
The liability is the hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge sumof the unit-linked liabilities plus an additional amount to and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the coverthe present value of the excess of future policy costs hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair overfuture charges.
values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged Movements in the fair value of investment contracts without risk.
Note E3 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative DPFare included in the change in investment contract liabilities instruments used for hedging purposes.
Where a cash flow hedging relationship exists, the effective Investment contract policyholders are charged for policy portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are administration services, investment management services, designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in surrenders and other contract fees.
These fees are recognised othercomprehensive income and accumulated under the heading asrevenue over the period in which the related services are of cash flow hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the performed.
If the fees are for services provided in future periods, ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, then they are deferred and recognised over those periods.
Front andis included in net investment income.
end fees are charged on some non-participating investment Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income contracts.
Where the non-participating investment contract is and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the measured at fair value, such fees which relate to the provision periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same ofinvestment management services are deferred and recognised line as the recognised hedged item.
as the services are provided.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the Deposits from reinsurers hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or It is the Groups practice to obtain collateral to cover certain issold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies reinsurance transactions, usually in the form of cash or marketable forhedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in other securities.
Where cash collateral is available to the Group for comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time investment purposes, it is recognised as a financial asset and isrecycled to profit or loss over the period the hedged item thecollateral repayable is recognised as deposits received from impacts profit or loss.
reinsurers in the statement of consolidated financial position.
Net asset value attributable to unitholders The net asset value attributable to unitholders represents the non-controlling interest in collective investment schemes which are consolidated by the Group.
This interest is classified at FVTPL and measured at fair value, which isequal to the bid value of the number of units of the collective investment scheme not owned by the Group.
Obligations for repayment of collateral received It is the Groups practice to obtain collateral in stock lending and derivative transactions, usually in the form of cash or marketable securities.
Where cash collateral is available to the Group for investment purposes, it is recognised as a financial asset and thecollateral repayable is recognised as obligations for repayment of collateral received in the statement of consolidated financial position.
The obligations for repayment of collateral received aremeasured at amortised cost, which in the case of cash is equivalent to the fair value of the consideration received.
Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under theliability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 144 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E1.
Fair values continued The table below sets out a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments as at 31 December 2018: Carrying value Amounts due for settlement after Total 12 months Fair value 2018 m m m Financial assets measured at carrying and fair values Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Held for trading derivatives 3,798 3,608 3,798 Designated upon initial recognition: Loans and deposits 3,189 3,119 3,189 1 Equities 52,716 52,716 1 Investment in associate see note H3 496 496 Fixed and variable rate income securities 67,932 62,128 67,932 1 Collective investment schemes 70,606 70,606 1 Reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities 5,417 5,417 Financial assets measured at amortised cost: Loans and deposits at amortised cost 423 77 423 2 Total financial assets 204,577 204,577 Following application of the temporary exemption granted to insurers in IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts from applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments see note A4 the table below separately identifies financial assets with contractual cash flows thatare solely payments of principal and interest SPPI excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis and all other financial assets, measured at fair value through profit or loss.
2018 m Financial assets with contractual cash flows that are SPPI 3 excluding those held for trading or managed on a fair value basis 423 4 All other financial assets that are measured at fair value through profit or loss 204,154 Total financial assets 204,577 Carrying value Amounts due for settlement after Total 12 months Fair value 2018 m m m Financial liabilities measured at carrying and fair values Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Held for trading derivatives 1,093 936 1,093 Designated upon initial recognition: Borrowings 127 113 127 1 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 2,659 2,659 1 Investment contract liabilities 114,463 114,463 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Borrowings 2,059 2,048 2,011 Deposits received from reinsurers 4,438 4,077 4,438 5 Obligations for repayment of collateral received 2,645 Total financial liabilities 127,484 124,791 1 These assets and liabilities have no expected settlement date.
2 Total financial assets includes 1,063 million 2017: 1,115 million of assets held in a collateral account pertaining to the PGL pension scheme buy-in agreement.
See note G6.2 for further details.
3 Financial assets that are SPPI are all short-term deposits with highly rated external institutions.
4 The change in fair value during 2018 of all other financial assets that are fair value through profit or loss is a 12,962 million loss.
5 These liabilities have no expected settlement date.
As the obligations relate to the repayment of collateral received in the form of cash, the liability is stated at the value of the consideration received and therefore no fair value has been disclosed.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 145 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES continued E1.
Fair values continued Carrying value Amounts due for settlement after Total 12 months Fair value 2017 m m m Financial assets measured at carrying and fair values Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Held for trading derivatives 2,760 2,613 2,760 Designated upon initial recognition: Loans and deposits 1,444 1,424 1,444 1 Equities 17,234 17,234 1 Investment in associate 550 550 Fixed and variable rate income securities 26,998 26,069 26,998 1 Collective investment schemes 18,901 18,901 1 Reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities 6,085 6,085 Financial assets measured at amortised cost: Loans and deposits at amortised cost 368 13 368 2 Total financial assets 74,340 74,340 Carrying value Amounts due for settlement after Total 12 months Fair value m m m Financial liabilities measured at carrying and fair values Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Held for trading derivatives 1,242 1,170 1,242 Designated upon initial recognition: Borrowings 182 143 182 1 Net asset value attributable to unitholders 840 840 1 Investment contract liabilities 26,733 26,733 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Borrowings 1,596 1,584 1,812 Deposits received from reinsurers 368 339 368 3 Obligations for repayment of collateral received 1,961 Total financial liabilities 32,922 31,177 1 These assets and liabilities have no expected settlement date.
2 Total financial assets includes 1,115 million of assets held in a collateral account pertaining to the PGL pension scheme buy-in agreement.
3 These liabilities have no expected settlement date.
Fair value hierarchy information for non-financial assets measured at fair value is included in note G8 for property held at valuation and in note G9 for investment property.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 146 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
