NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED G. OTHER STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED G6.
Pension schemes  continued Defined contribution pension schemes G3.
Payables related to direct insurance contracts Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the consolidated Payables related to direct insurance contracts are recognised income statement as incurred.
when due and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration payable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Defined benefit pension schemes these payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective The net surplus or deficit the economic surplus or deficit in interest rate method.
respect of the defined benefit pension schemes is calculated byestimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years: 2018 2017 thatbenefit is discounted to determine its present value and the m m fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
Payables related to direct The economic surplus or deficit is subsequently adjusted to insurancecontracts 902 522 eliminate on consolidation the carrying value of insurance policies issued by Group entities to the defined benefit pension schemes the reported surplus or deficit.
A corresponding adjustment is Amount due for settlement after made to the carrying values of insurance contract liabilities and 12months investment contract liabilities.
As required by IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit G4.
Accruals and deferred income Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, to the extent that the economic surplus prior to the elimination of the This note analyses the Groups accruals and deferred income insurance policies issued by Group entities will be available as a at the end of the year.
refund, the economic surplus is stated after a provision for tax that would be borne by the scheme administrators when the refund is made.
The Group recognises a pension surplus on the basis that it 2018 2017 m m is entitled to the surplus of each scheme in the event of a gradual settlement of the liabilities, due to its ability to order a winding-up Accruals and deferred income 337 179 of the Trust.
Additionally, under IFRIC 14 pension funding contributions are Amount due for settlement after considered to be a minimum funding requirement and, to the 12months 9 extent that the contributions payable will not be available to the Group after they are paid into the Scheme, a liability is recognised when the obligation arises.
The net defined benefit asset liability G5.
Other payables represents the economic surplus net of all adjustments noted above.
The Group determines the net interest expense or income on the Other payables are recognised when due and are measured net defined benefit asset liability for the period by applying the oninitial recognition at the fair value of the consideration payable.
discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the Subsequent to initial recognition, these payables are measured beginning of the annual period to the opening net defined benefit atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The discount rate is the yield at the period end on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to 2018 2017 the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed m m by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Investment broker balances 199 76 The movement in the net defined benefit asset liability is analysed between the service cost, past service cost, curtailments and Property related payables 117 settlements all recognised within administrative expenses in the Investment management fees 39 1 consolidated income statement, the net interest cost on the net defined benefit asset liability, including any reimbursement assets Other payables 518 67 recognised within net investment income in the consolidated 873 144 income statement, remeasurements of the net defined asset liability recognised in other comprehensive income and .
Amount due for settlement after 12months 97 This note describes the Groups three main staff pension schemes for its employees, the Pearl Group Staff Pension Scheme the Pearl Scheme, the PGL Pension Scheme, and the Abbey Life Staff Pension Scheme Abbey Life Scheme and explains how the pension asset liability is calculated.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 178 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
