NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES prolongedto determine that objective evidence of impairment exists.
If objective evidence of impairment exists, the Company a Basis of preparation calculates the amount of impairment as the difference Phoenix Group Holdings plc the Company was incorporated between the recoverable amount of the Group entity and on 5 October 2018 under the UK Companies Act 2006 and is itscarrying value and recognises the amount as an expense domiciled in England and Wales.
The financial statements for inthe income statement.
the period ended 31 December 2018 are the first set of financial statements prepared by the Company.
Accordingly, The recoverable amount is determined based on the cash flow there is no comparative information to disclose in the projections of the underlying entities.
Financial assets The financial statements have been prepared on a going Classification of Financial assets concern and on an historical cost basis except for those Financial assets are measured at amortised cost where financial assets and financial liabilities that have been theyhave: measured at fair value.
contractual terms that give rise to cash flows on specified The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in dates, that represent solely payments of principal and section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its own interest on the principal amount outstanding: and income statement in these financial statements.
are held within a business model whose objective is Statement of Compliance achieved by holding to collect contractual cash flows.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards These financial assets are initially recognised at cost, being IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in the fair value of the consideration paid for the acquisition of accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006. the financial asset.
All transaction costs directly attributable tothe acquisition are also included in the cost of the financial The financial statements are presented in sterling rounded asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these financials asset to the nearest million except where otherwise stated.
are carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in Financial assets measured at amortised cost are included in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally note 9. enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets Impairment of financial assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Company assesses the expected credit losses associated with its loans and receivables, other amounts due from Group b Accounting policies entities and cash carried at amortised cost.
The measurement of credit impairment is based on an Expected Credit Loss Where applicable, the accounting policies in the separate ECL model and depends upon whether there has been financial statements are the same as those presented in the asignificant increase in credit risk.
consolidated financial statements on pages 121 to 213, with the exception of the two policies detailed below.
For those credit exposures for which credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Company The Companys accounting policy for financial assets is measures loss allowances at an amount equal to the total inaccordance with the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial expected credit losses resulting from default events that are Instruments.
As the Group has applied the temporary possible within 12 months after the reporting date 12-month exemption from IFRS 9 available for entities whose activities ECL.
For those credit exposures for which there has been are predominantly connected with insurance contracts, asignificant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, adifferent accounting policy has been adopted in the theCompany measures and recognises an allowance at an preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
amount equal to the expected credit losses over the remaining In addition, the Company has not adopted the Groups life of the exposure, irrespective of the timing of the default policyof hedge accounting.
If the financial asset becomes creditimpaired following significant financial difficulty of issuer Where an accounting policy can be directly attributed to borrower, or a default breach of a covenant, the Company aspecific note to the consolidated financial statements, willrecognise a Lifetime ECL.
ECLs are derived from unbiased thepolicy is presented within that note.
Each note within and probability-weighted estimates of expected loss.
theCompany financial statements makes reference to the note to the consolidated financial statements containing the See note 12 for detail of how the Company assesses whether applicable accounting policy.
The accounting policy in relation the credit risk of a financial asset has increased since initial to foreign currency transactions is included within note A2.1 recognition and the approach to estimating ECLs.
The loss allowance reduces the carrying value of the financial Investments in Group entities asset and is reassessed at each reporting date.
ECLs and Investments in Group entities are carried in the statement subsequent remeasurements of the ECL, are recognised in offinancial position at cost less impairment.
For other receivables, the ECL rate is recalculated each reporting period with reference to the The Company assesses at each reporting date whether counterparties of each balance.
The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
Evidence ofimpairment needs to be significant or PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 216 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
