Strategic report Performance Our Merchandise segment comprises food and accessories for a wide range of popular pets.
As a result of these initiatives, we Innovation is critical to growth in this have driven strong volume growth category, particularly in our own label brands.
We have made a significant in Advanced Nutrition, up 12.7%, investment in the creation of a broad and increased participation of range specifically aimed at puppies, private label brands in the category.
with incentives to encourage puppy We have also continued to develop owners to experience our veterinary and our range of pet treats.
The introduction of range of natural products includes harnesses, including a range specifically freeze-dried meat and fish.
Items that designed for small dogs, has driven mirror trends in human food continue growth in the collars and leads category.
Food to be popular, including our ranges We have seen growth from a new range We provide a wide range of pet foods of celebration products, formulated of cooling products for dogs.
for dogs, cats, small mammals, fish, specifically for pets.
With revenues of Integrating online with stores 421.9m, pet food is the largest part Accessories Our in-store ranges are supported of our business and represents 55% Accessories revenues increased 6.8% by an expanded offer of 11,700 of our Merchandise revenues.
to 343.5m and account for 45% of our products available online.
Our accessories We aim to provide customers with a Store provides colleagues with the ranges are displayed by pet type, full spectrum of dietary choices to suit opportunity to advise customers and particularly dogs, cats, small mammals, their pet and their pocket, from grocery place orders from the expanded range fish, birds and reptiles.
These include brands, to our comprehensive range while the customer is still in the store.
collars, leads and harnesses, bedding, of Advanced Nutrition diets, which are We have also developed a subscription housing, feeding, health & hygiene, a more considered purchase offering platform which provides a convenient travel, training and enrichment.
significant health benefits to dogs and solution for customers to receive a cats.
Our bridging ranges, which sit regular delivery of products such as between grocery brands and Advanced preventative flea treatments in a timely Nutrition and help customers make manner to benefit their dogs and cats.
a step up to a better diet for their pets, have been a particular success in the past year.
Pets at Home own label and our private label brands, such as Wainwrights and AVA, account for 31% of our total food revenues.
Private labels give us a great opportunity to highlight the value of Advanced Nutrition diets, where we recently lowered prices, and subsequently extended our price investment to branded ranges.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29
