NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED F. INSURANCE CONTRACTS, INVESTMENT Where policyholders have valuable guarantees, options or CONTRACTS WITH DPF AND REINSURANCE promises in respect of the with-profit business, these costs aregenerally valued using a stochastic model.
Liabilities under insurance contracts In calculating the realistic liabilities, account is taken of the future Classification of contracts management actions consistent with those set out in the Contracts are classified as insurance contracts where the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
Groupaccepts significant insurance risk from the policyholder Standard Life Assurance Limited SLAL, a wholly-owned byagreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified subsidiary of the Group, includes the Heritage With Profits Fund uncertain event adversely affects the policyholder.
In 2006, the Standard Life Assurance Company Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group demutualised.
The demutualisation was governed by its Scheme from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment of Demutualisation the Scheme.
Underthe Scheme contracts or derivatives and accounted for as financial liabilities substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the Standard Life see notes E1 and E3 respectively.
Assurance Company were transferred to SLAL.
Some insurance and investment contracts contain a DPF.
The Scheme of Demutualisation the Scheme provides that Thisfeature entitles the policyholder to additional discretionary certain defined cash flows recourse cash flows arising in the benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
Investment HWPF on specified blocks of UK and Ireland business, both contracts with a DPF are recognised, measured and presented participating and non-participating, may be transferred out of that asinsurance contracts.
fund when they emerge, being transferred to the Shareholder Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF Fund SHF or the Proprietary Business Fund PBF of SLAL, Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner and thus accrue to the ultimate benefit of equity holders of the consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims Company.
Under the Scheme, such transfers are subject to certain associated with the reinsured policy.
constraints in order to protect policyholders.
The Scheme also provides for additional expenses to be charged by the PBF to Insurance liabilities theHWPF in respect of German branch business in SLAL.
Insurance contract liabilities for non-participating business, other than unit-linked insurance contracts, are calculated on the basis of Under the realistic valuation, the discounted value of expected current data and assumptions, using either a net premium or gross future cash flows on participating contracts not reflected in the premium method.
Where a gross premium method is used, the WPBR is included in the cost of future policy-related liabilities liability includes allowance for prudent lapses.
Negative policy asareduction where future cash flows are expected to be values are allowed for on individual policies: positive.
The discounted value of expected future cash flows onnon-participating contracts not reflected in the measure on where there are no guaranteed surrender values: or non-participating liabilities is recognised as a separate asset in the periods where guaranteed surrender values do not apply where future cash flows are expected to be positive.
The even though guaranteed surrender values are applicable after Scheme requirement to transfer future recourse cash flows out aspecified period of time.
ofthe HWPF is recognised as an addition to the cost of future For unit-linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based policy-related liabilities.
The discounted value of expected future on the fund value, together with an allowance for any excess cash flows on non-participating contracts can be apportioned offuture expenses over charges, where appropriate.
between those included in the recourse cash flows and those retained in the HWPF for the benefit of policyholders.
For participating business, the liabilities under insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF are calculated in accordance Applying the policy noted above for the HWPF: with the following methodology: The value of participating investment contract liabilities on liabilities to policyholders arising from the with-profit business theconsolidated statement of financial position is reduced are stated at the amount of the realistic value of the liabilities, byfuture expected net positive cash flows arising on adjusted to exclude the owners share of projected future participating contracts.
bonuses: Future expected cash flows on non-participating contracts are acquisition costs are not deferred: and not recognised as an asset of the HWPF on the consolidated statement of financial position.
However, future expected cash reinsurance recoveries are measured on a basis that is flows on non-participating contracts that are not recourse cash consistent with the valuation of the liability to policyholders flows under the Scheme are used to reduce the value of towhich the reinsurance applies.
participating insurance and participating investment contract The With-Profit Benefit Reserve WPBR for an individual liabilities on the consolidated statement of financial position.
contract is determined by either a retrospective calculation of accumulated asset share approach or by way of a prospective bonus reserve valuation method.
The cost of future policy-related liabilities is determined using a market consistent approach, mainly based on a stochastic model calibrated to market conditions at theend of the reporting period.
Non-market related assumptions for example, persistency, mortality and expenses are based on experience adjusted to take into account of future trends.
The realistic liability for any contract is equal to the sum oftheWPBR and the cost of future policy-related liabilities.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 166 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Present value of future profits on non-participating Gross benefits and claims Claims on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF business in the with-profit funds reflect the cost of all claims arising during the period, including For UK with-profit life funds, an amount may be recognised for policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus thepresent value of future profits PVFP on non-participating declaration.
Claims payable on maturity are recognised when the business written in a with-profit fund where the determination of claim becomes due for payment and claims payable on death are the realistic value of liabilities in that with-profit fund takes account, recognised on notification.
Surrenders are accounted for at the directly or indirectly, of this value.
earlier of the payment date or when the policy ceases to be Where the value of future profits can be shown to be due to included within insurance contract liabilities.
Where claims are policyholders, this amount is recognised as a reduction in the payable and the contract remains in-force, the claim instalment is liability rather than as an intangible asset.
This is then apportioned accounted for when due for payment.
Claims payable include the between the amounts that have been taken into account in the costs of settlement.
measurement of liabilities and other amounts which are shown Reinsurance asan adjustment to the unallocated surplus.
The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business.
Where it is not possible to apportion the future profits on this Reinsurance assets represent balances due from reinsurance non-participating business to policyholders, the PVFP on this providers.
Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities is business is recognised as an intangible asset and changes in its dependent on expected claims and benefits arising under the value are recorded as a separate item in the consolidated income related reinsured policies.
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting The value of the PVFP is determined in a manner consistent with date, or more frequently, when an indication of impairment arises realistic measurement of liabilities.
In particular, the methodology during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is and assumptions involve adjustments to reflect risk and objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after uncertainty, are based on current estimates of future experience initialrecognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may and current market yields and allow for market consistent valuation notreceive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the of any guarantees or options within the contracts.
The value is also contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the adjusted to remove the value of capital backing the non-profit amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
The business if this is included in the realistic calculation of PVFP.
The impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income principal assumptions used to calculate the PVFP are the same as statement.
The reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities those used in calculating the insurance contract liabilities given in ismeasured on a basis that is consistent with the valuation of the note F4.
liability to policyholders to which the reinsurance applies.
Embedded derivatives Reinsurance premiums payable in respect of certain reinsured Embedded derivatives, including options to surrender insurance individual and group pensions annuity contracts are payable by contracts, that meet the definition of insurance contracts or are quarterly instalments and are accounted for on a payable basis.
closely related to the host insurance contract, are not separately Due to the period of time over which reinsurance premiums are measured.
All other embedded derivatives are separated from the payable under these arrangements, the reinsurance premiums and host contract and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
related payables are discounted to present values using a pre-tax Liability adequacy risk-free rate of return.
The unwinding of the discount is included At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to as a charge within the consolidated income statement.
assess whether the insurance contract and investment contract Reinsurance claims are recognised when the related gross with DPF liabilities are adequate.
Current best estimates of future insurance claim is recognised according to the terms of the cash flows are compared to the carrying value of the liabilities.
Anydeficiency is charged to the consolidated income statement.
Gains or losses on purchasing reinsurance are recognised in the The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet consolidated income statement at the date of purchase and are theminimum specified requirements for liability adequacy not amortised.
They are the difference between the premiums testingunder IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, as they allow for ceded to reinsurers and the related change in the reinsurers share currentestimates of all contractual cash flows and of related of insurance contract liabilities.
cashflows such as claims handling costs.
Cash flows resulting from embedded options and guarantees are also allowed for, withany deficiency being recognised in the consolidated incomestatement.
Consolidated income statement recognition Gross premiums In respect of insurance contracts and investment contracts withDPF, premiums are accounted for on a receivable basis andexclude any taxes or duties based on premiums.
Funds atretirement under individual pension contracts converted toannuities with the Group are, for accounting purposes, includedinboth claims incurred and premiums within gross premiums written.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 167
