NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED G. OTHER STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED Owner-occupied properties have been valued by accredited  continued independent valuers at 31 December 2018 on an open market basis in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered G7.
Intangible assets continued Surveyors requirements, which is deemed to equate to G7.4 Present value of future profits on non-participating fairvalue.
The fair value measurement for the properties business in the with-profit fund of31 million 2017: 26 million has been categorised as The principal assumptions used to calculate the present value Level 3 based on the non-observable inputs to the valuation of future profits are the same as those used in calculating the technique used.
insurance contract liabilities given in note F4.1.
Revaluation of the present value of future profits is charged or credited to the The following table shows reconciliation from the opening consolidated income statement as appropriate.
tothe closing fair value for the Level 3 owner-occupied properties at valuation: G7.5 Other intangibles Other intangibles include 20 million which was recognised 2018 2017 atcost on acquisition of the AXA Wealth businesses and m m 36 million recognised at cost on acquisition of the Standard At 1 January 26 25 Life Assurance businesses.
On acquisition of Standard Life Assurance businesses see note H2.1 5 The amount recognised in respect of AXA Wealth represents the value attributable to the SunLife brand as at 1 November Remeasurement recognised in other 2016.
The intangible asset was valued on a multi-period comprehensive income 1 excess earnings basis.
Impairment testing was performed At 31 December 31 26 ina combined test with the AXA goodwill see section G7.1.
Unrealised gains for the year 1 The value in use continues to exceed its carrying value.
This brand intangible is being amortised over a10yearperiod.
The fair value of the owner-occupied properties was derived using the investment method supported by comparable The amount recognised in respect of the Standard Life evidence.
The significant non-observable inputs used in the Assurance businesses represents the value attributable to the valuations are the expected rental values per square foot and Client Services and Proposition Agreement CSPA with SLA the capitalisation rates.
plc and the Groups contractual rights to use the Standard Life brand.
The CSPA formalises the Strategic Partnership The fair value of the owner-occupied properties valuation between the two companies and establishes the contractual would increase decrease if the expected rental values per terms by which SLA plc will continue to market and distribute square foot were to be higher lower and the capitalisation certain products that will be manufactured by Group rates were to be lower higher.
Investment property This intangible was valued on a multi-period excess earnings Investment property is stated at fair value.
Fair value is the price basis and is being amortised over a period of 15 years.
that would be received to sell a property in an orderly transaction Further details are set out in note H2.
between market participants at the measurement date.
Gains and losses arising from the change in fair value are recognised in the G8.
Property, plant and equipment consolidated income statement.
Owner-occupied property is stated at its revalued amount, being Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of its fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent ownership are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Where investment property is leased out by the Group, property is depreciated over its estimated useful life, which is rental income from these operating leases is recognised as taken as 20 50 years.
Gains and losses income in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line on owner-occupied property are recognised in the statement of basis over the period of the lease.
Equipment consists primarily of computer equipment and 2018 2017 equipment and fittings.
Equipment is stated at historical cost less m m deprecation.
Where acquired in a business combination, historical At 1 January 612 646 cost equates to the fair value at the acquisition date.
Depreciation on equipment is charged to the consolidated income statement On acquisition of the Standard Life over its estimated useful life of between 2 and 15 years.
Assurance businesses see note H2.1 5,878 Additions 119 2018 2017 Improvements 3 10 m m Disposals 74 53 Equipment 17 Losses gains on adjustments to Owner-occupied properties 31 26 fair value recognised in consolidated 48 26 income statement 18 9 At 31 December 6,520 612 Equipment includes 14 million which was recognised Unrealised losses gains on properties onacquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
heldatend of period 28 5 Additions in the year were 5 million and depreciation chargedwas 2 million.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 192 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION G9.
Investment property continued As at 31 December 2018, a property portfolio of 6,401 million 2017: 474 million is held by the life companies in a mix ofcommercial sectors, spread geographically throughout the UK and Europe.
Investment properties also include 119 million 2017: 138 million of property reversions arising from sales of the NPI Extra Income Plan see note E5 for further details.
Commercial investment property is measured at fair value by independent property valuers having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent experiences in the location and category of the property being valued.
The valuations arecarried out in accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS guidelines with expected income and capitalisation rate as the key non-observable inputs.
The residential property reversions, an interest in customers properties which the Group will realise upon their death, are valued using a DCF model based on the Groups proportion ofthe current open market value, and discounted for the expected lifetime of the policyholder derived from published mortality tables.
The open market value is measured by independent local property surveyors having appropriate recognised professional qualifications with reference to the assumed condition of the property and local market conditions.
The individual properties are valued triennially andindexed using regional house price indices to the year end date.
The discount rate is a risk-free rate appropriate for the duration of the asset, adjusted for the deferred possession rate of 3.6%.
Assumptions are also made in the valuation for future movements in property prices, based on a risk free rate.
The residential property reversions havebeen substantially refinanced under the arrangements with Santander as described in note E5.
The fair value measurement of the investment properties has been categorised as Level 3 based on the inputs to the valuation techniques used.
The following table shows the valuation techniques used in measuring the fair value of the investment properties, the significant non-observable inputs used, the inter-relationship between the key non-observable inputs and the fairvalue measurement of the investment properties: Significant nonDescription Valuation techniques observableinputs Range weighted average 2018 Range weighted average 2017 Commercial RICS valuation Expected income per sq.
