STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION B.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE Segmental measure of performance: Operating Profit B1.
Segmental analysis The Company uses a non-GAAP measure of performance, beingoperating profit, to evaluate segment performance.
The Group defines and presents operating segments in Operating profit is considered to provide a comparable measure accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires such ofthe underlying performance of the business as it excludes the segments to be based on the information which is provided to the impact of short-term economic volatility and other one-off items.
Board, and therefore segmental information in this note This measure incorporates an expected return, including a ispresented on a different basis from profit or loss in the longer-term return on financial investments backing shareholder consolidated financial statements.
and policyholder funds over the period, with consistent allowance An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages for the corresponding expected movement in liabilities.
Annuity in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur new business profits are included in operating profit using expenses, including revenues and expenses relating to valuation assumptions consistent with the pricing of the business transactions with other components of the Group.
including the Companys expected longer-term asset allocation backing the business.
Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, the Group has reassessed its operating segments to Operating profit includes the effect of variances in experience reflect the way the business is now being managed.
The Group fornon-economic items, such as mortality and expenses, and now has four reportable segments comprising UK Heritage, UK theeffect of changes in non-economic assumptions.
It also Open, Europe and Management Services, as set out in note B1.1.
incorporates the impacts of significant management actions In the prior year, the Group had one operating segment being where such actions are consistent with the Companys core Phoenix Life which provided a range of whole life, term assurance operating activities for example, actuarial modelling enhancements and pension products.
Comparative segmental information for and data reviews.
Operating profit is reported net of policyholder prior periods has been presented on a basis consistent with the finance charges and policyholder tax.
Operating profit excludes the impact of the following items: For management purposes, the Group is organised into business the difference between the actual and expected experience units based on their products and services.
For reporting foreconomic items and the impacts of changes in economic purposes, business units are aggregated where they share similar assumptions on the valuation of liabilities see notes B2.2 economic characteristics including the nature of products and andB2.3 : services, types of customers and the nature of the regulatory amortisation and impairments of intangible assets net of environment.
No such aggregation has been required in the policyholder tax : current year.
Prior to the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, Phoenix Life was considered to be the Groups only finance costs attributable to owners: reportable segment, which included the Groups operating gains or losses on the acquisition or disposal of subsidiaries insurance entities and the Management Services entities in netof related costs : theGroup.
the financial impacts of mandatory regulatory change: The UK Heritage segment contains UK businesses which no the profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests: longer actively sell products to policyholders and which therefore run-off gradually over time.
These businesses will integration, restructuring or other significant one-off projects: acceptincremental premiums on in-force policies, and will provide and annuities to existing policyholders with vesting products.
Bulk any other items which, in the Directors view, should be Purchase Annuity contracts are included in this segment.
disclosed separately by virtue of their nature or incidence The UK Open segment includes new and in-force life insurance toenable a full understanding of the Companys financial and investment policies in respect of products that the Group performance.
This is typically the case where the nature continues to actively market to new and existing policyholders.
oftheitem is not reflective of the underlying performance This includes products such as workplace pensions and Selfoftheoperating companies.
Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs distributed through the Whilst the excluded items are important to an assessment Groups Strategic Partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen plc oftheconsolidated financial performance of the Group, SLA plc, and alsoproducts sold under the SunLife brand.
management considers that the presentation of the operating The Europe segment includes business written in Ireland and profit metric provides useful information for assessing the Germany.
This will include products that are actively being performance of the Groups operating segments on an ongoing marketed to new policyholders, and legacy in-force products basis.
The IFRS results are significantly impacted by the thatare no longer being sold to new customers.
amortisation of intangible balances arising on acquisition, the one-off costs of integration activities and the costsof servicing The Management Services segment comprises income from debt used to finance acquisition activity, which are not indicative of thelife and holding companies in accordance with the respective the underlying operational performance of the Groups segments.
management service agreements less fees related to the outsourcing of services and other operating costs.
Furthermore, the hedging strategy of the Group is calibrated toprotect the capital Solvency II surplus position and cash Unallocated Group includes consolidation adjustments and Group generation capability of the operating companies, as opposed financing including finance costs which are managed on a Group tothe IFRS financial position.
This can create additional volatilityin basis and are not allocated to individual operating segments.
the IFRS result which is excluded from the operating profit metric.
Inter-segment transactions are set on an arms length basis in a The Company therefore considers that operating profit provides manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segmental results amore representative indicator of the ability of the Groups include those transfers between business segments which are operating companies to generate cash available for the servicing then eliminated on consolidation.
ofthe Groups debts and for distribution to shareholders.
Accordingly, the measure is more closely aligned with the business model of the Group and how performance is managed by those charged with governance.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 133 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED B.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE continued Other non-operating items in respect of 2018 include: B1.1 Segmental result 2017 a provision for 68 million in respect of a commitment 2018 restated toreduce ongoing and exit charges for non-workplace m m pension products: costs of 43 million associated with the acquisition of the Operating profit Standard Life Assurance businesses, and 7 million incurred under the on-going transition programme: UK Heritage 640 372 costs of 59 million associated with the equalisation of UK Open 41 5 accrued Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP benefits Europe 22 within the Groups pension schemes see note G6 for Management Services 25 21 further details : Unallocated Group 20 20 a net benefit of 45 million reflecting anticipated costs Total segmental operating profit 708 368 savings associated with process improvements and continued investment in the digitalisation of the customer journey: a gain on acquisition of 141 million reflecting the excess Investment return variances and ofthe fair value of the net assets acquired over the economic assumption changes consideration paid for the acquisition of the Standard Life onlong-term business 283 6 Assurance businesses see note H2 for further details : and Variance on owners funds 193 87 net other one-off items totalling a cost of 47 million, Amortisation of acquired in-force business 189 102 including other corporate project costs of 42 million.
Amortisation of other intangibles 18 17 Other non-operating items in respect of 2017 include: Other non-operating items 38 80 Finance costs attributable to owners 114 104 a premium of 25 million paid on redemption of 178 million principal of the senior unsecured bond: Profit loss before the tax costs of 21 million in respect of integration and attributable to owners of the parent 439 28 restructuring of the Abbey Life and AXA Wealth business: costs of 20 million in respect of short-term expense Profit before tax attributable to overruns arising from the AXA Wealth business prior non-controlling interests 31 tocompletion of the implementation of the Phoenix operating model: Profit loss before the tax a provision of 27 million in respect of a commitment attributable to owners 470 28 tothereduction of ongoing charges for Workplace Pensionproducts: a 21 million increase in the provision for costs for claimsrelating to historic creditor insurance underwritten bya subsidiary of the Group, PA GI Limited, offset by the recognition of recoveries due or received from third parties under contractual arrangements of 39 million: and net other one-off items totalling a cost of 5 million, including corporate project costs.
Further details of the investment return variances and economic assumption changes on long-term business, and the variance onowners funds are included in note B2.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 134 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION B1.2 Segmental revenue Management Unallocated UK Heritage UK Open Europe Services Group Total 2018 m m m m m m Revenue from external customers: Gross premiums written 1,959 200 486 2,645 Less: premiums ceded to reinsurers 478 1 2 481 Net premiums written 1,481 199 484 2,164 Fees and commissions 272 91 22 385 Income from other segments 505 505 Total segmental revenue 1,753 290 506 505 505 2,549 Of the revenue from external customers presented in the table above, 2,199 million is attributable to customers in the United Kingdom UK and350 million to the rest of the world.
The Europe operating segment comprises business written in Ireland and Germany tocustomers in both Europe and the UK.
No revenue transaction with a single customer external to the Groupamounts to greater than 10% of the Groups revenue.
The Group has total non-current assets other than financial assets, deferred tax assets, pension schemes and rights arising under insurance contracts of 6,479 million located in the UK and 367 million located in the rest of the world.
Management Unallocated UK Heritage UK Open Europe Services Group Total 2017 m m m m m m Revenue from external customers: Gross premiums written 1,132 165 1,297 Less: premiums ceded to reinsurers 356 356 Net premiums written 776 165 941 Fees and commissions 171 2 173 Income from other segments 338 338 Total segmental revenue 947 167 338 338 1,114 Predominantly all external revenue presented for 2017 is attributable to customers in the UK.
Additionally, predominantly all non-current assets other than financial assets, deferred tax assets, pension schemes and rights arising under insurance contracts for 2017 were located in the UK.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 135
