NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED I.
Share-based payment continued The Groups capital management is based on the Solvency II I1.3 Movements in the year continued framework.
This involves a valuation in line with Solvency II The weighted average fair value of options granted during the principles of the Groups Own Funds and risk-based assessment year was 5.75 2017: 4.75. of the Groups Solvency Capital Requirement SCR.
This note sets out the Groups approach to managing capital and The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for provides an analysis of Own Funds and SCR.
Risk and capital management objectives The weighted average remaining contractual life for the The risk management objectives and policies of the Group rewards outstanding as at 31 December 2018 is six years arebased on the requirement to protect the Groups 2017: six years.
regulatorycapital position, thereby safeguarding policyholders guaranteed benefits whilst also ensuring the Group can meet I2.
Cash flows from operating activities its various cash flow requirements.
Subject to this, the Group seeks to use available capital to achieve increased returns, The following analysis gives further detail behind the cash utilised balancing risk and reward, to generate additional value for by operations figure in the statement of consolidated cash flows.
2018 2017 In pursuing these objectives, the Group deploys financial m m andother assets and incurs insurance contract liabilities Profit loss for the period before tax 260 7 andfinancial and other liabilities.
Financial and other assets Non-cash movements in profit for the principally comprise investments in equity securities, fixed year before tax: andvariable rate income securities, collective investment Gain on acquisition 141 schemes, property, derivatives, reinsurance, trade and otherreceivables, and banking deposits.
Financial liabilities Fair value losses gains on: principally comprise investment contracts, borrowings for Investment property 18 9 financing purposes, derivative liabilities and net asset value Financial assets and attributable to unit holders.
 12,861 2,896 Borrowings 29 23 The risk management disclosures in the consolidated financial statements set out the major risks that the Group businesses Amortisation of intangible assets 214 126 are exposed to and describe the Groups approach to managing Change in present value these.
The section on financial risk is included in note E6, offutureprofits 1 5 thesection on insurance risk is included in note F4 and the Change in unallocated surplus 88 46 sections on risk and capital management objectives and other Share-based payment charge 9 8 risks are included below.
The Groups risk management framework is described in the risk management commentary Interest expense on borrowings 142 132 on pages 39 to 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Premium paid on partial redemption of 300 million unsecured bond 25 Other risks Net interest expense onGroup Customer risk defined benefit pension scheme Customer risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or asset liability 6 11 value, through inappropriate or poor customer treatment Pension past service costs 57 including poor advice.
Other costs of pension schemes 6 5 Operational risk Decrease in investment assets 5,230 4,411 Operational risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or Decrease in reinsurance assets 681 1,154 value, through financial or reputational loss, from inadequate Decrease in insurance contract or failed internal processes and systems, or from people andinvestment contract liabilities 19,186 1,933 related or external events.
Decrease in deposits received Capital Management Framework fromreinsurers 178 24 The Groups Capital Management Framework is designed to Decrease increase in obligation achieve the following objectives: forrepayment of collateral received 568 338 Net decrease increase to provide appropriate security for policyholders and meet all inworkingcapital 328 113 regulatory capital requirements under the Solvency II regime Other Items while not retaining unnecessary excess capital: Contributions to defined benefit to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet obligations to pension schemes 46 90 policyholders and other creditors: Acquisition related expenses to be to optimise the Fitch Ratings financial leverage to maintain included within cash flows from an investment grade credit rating: and investing activities 43 to maintain a stable and sustainable dividend policy.
Cash utilised generated byoperations 324 1,156 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 210 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
