NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS A.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance Following the creation of the new UK-registered holding company, A1.
Basis of preparation the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements for the year ended accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
31 December 2018 set out on pages 121 to 213 comprise The consolidated financial statements were previously prepared in thefinancial statements of Phoenix Group Holdings plc accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting theCompany and its subsidiaries together referred Standards Board IASB.
As at 31 December 2018 there were no toasthe Group, and were authorised by the Board differences between IFRSs adopted by the EU and those issued ofDirectorsfor issue on 4 March 2019. by the IASB in terms of their application to the Group, and therefore there is no impact on the consolidated financial Under a scheme of arrangement in accordance with section statements in the current or prior period as a result of this change.
86 of the Cayman Islands Companies Law between Phoenix Group Holdings Old PGH, the former ultimate parent Restatement of prior period information company of the Group, and its shareholders, all of the issued Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance shares inOld PGH were cancelled and an equivalent number businesses see note H2, the Group has chosen to revise ofnewshares in Old PGH were issued to the Company thepresentation of its 2018 consolidated income statement toaid inconsideration for the allotment to Old PGH shareholders understanding of the Enlarged Groups results.
Where necessary, ofone ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 2017 comparative amounts and accompanying notes have been shareinOld PGH that they held on the scheme record date, restated to reflect .
The Group has reassessed its operating segments to reflect the The scheme of arrangement had the effect of the Company way in which the business is now being managed following the being inserted above Old PGH in the Group legal entity acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
organisational structure and constitutes a group reconstruction.
Comparative segmental performance information has been It has been accounted for in accordance with the principles restated in line with the revised segments and further details are ofa reverse acquisition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In applying the principles of reverse acquisition accounting, As noted above the equity structure disclosed for the 2017 the consolidated financial statements have been presented comparative period has been restated to reflect the difference asa continuation of the Old PGH business and the Group is between the par value of shares issued by the Company andthe presented as if the Company had always been the ultimate shares issued by Old PGH prior to the share for shareexchange.
The comparative equity structure has This impacts the statement of consolidated financial position and beenrestated to reflect the difference between the par the statement of consolidated changes in equity.
valueof shares issued by the Company 39 million and theshares issued by Old PGH nil prior to the share In addition, the presentation of gross premiums written, premiums forshareexchange, with a corresponding adjustment ceded to reinsurers, policyholder claims and reinsurance recoveries tosharepremium.
In addition, the presentation within the in respect of certain corporate pension fide-risking transactions has  changes in equity of the impact been updated in the 2017 comparative amounts to better reflect ofshares issued during the year by Old PGH up to the date the underlying structure of the transactions.
ofthe share for share exchange reflects the par value of theshares issued by the Company.
None of the restatements of prior period information have impacted the profit or loss or total equity attributable to the owners No other adjustments have been reflected in equity, and as of the parent.
aconsequence, the carrying values of the components of equity recognised in the consolidated financial statements Basis of consolidation aredifferent to the corresponding balances in the financial The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company.
statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, including collective investment schemes, where the Group The consolidated financial statements have been prepared exercises overall control.
In accordance with the principles setout ona going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group controls for investment property, owner-occupied property and those an investee, if and only, if the Group has all thefollowing: financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments that have been measured at fair value.
power over the investee: exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling with the investee: and rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise stated.
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect itsreturns.
Assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported inthe statement of consolidated financial position only when The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised assessing whether it has power over an investee, including amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, relevant activities, substantive and protective rights, voting rights ortorealise the assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
and purpose and design of an investee.
The Group reassesses Income and expenses are not offset in the consolidated whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances income statement unless required or permitted by an indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS or elements of control.
Further details about the consolidation of interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the accounting subsidiaries, including collective investment schemes, is included policies of the Group.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 128 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION A2.
Accounting policies Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
The areas The principal accounting policies have been consistently of the Groups business that typically require such estimates applied in these consolidated financial statements.
are the measurement of insurance and investment contract Where anaccounting policy can be directly attributed to liabilities, determination of the fair value of financial assets aspecific note to the consolidated financial statements, andliabilities, valuation of pension scheme assets thepolicy is presented within that note, with a view to andliabilities and the valuation of intangibles on initial enabling greater understanding of the results and financial recognition.
All other significant accounting policiesare disclosed below.
The application of critical accounting judgements that could have the most significant effect on the recognised amounts A2.1 Foreign currency transactions include recognition of pension surplus, the determination Items included in the financial statements of each of the ofoperating profit, identification of intangible assets arising on Groups entities are measured using the currency of the acquisitions, the recognition of an investment as an associate primary economic environment in which the entity operates anddetermination of control with regards to underlying the functional currency.
Details of all critical accounting estimates and statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups judgements are included below.
A3.1 Insurance and investment contract liabilities The results and financial position of all Group companies that Insurance and investment contract liability accounting is have a functional currency different from the presentation discussed in more detail in the accounting policies in note F1 currency are translated into the presentation currency with further detail of the key assumptions made in determining asfollows: insurance and investment contract liabilities included in note F4.
Economic assumptions are set taking into account market assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the conditions as at the valuation date.
Non-economic assumptions, period end: such as future expenses, longevity and mortality are set based income, expenses and cash flows denominated in foreign on past experience, market practice, regulations and currencies are translated at average exchange rates: and expectations about future trends.
all resulting exchange differences are recognised through the statement of consolidated comprehensive income.
The valuation of insurance contract liabilities is sensitive to theassumptions which have been applied in their calculation.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Details of sensitivities arising from significant non-economic currency of the transacting Group entity using exchange rates assumptions are detailed on page 148 in note F4.
prevailing at the date of translation.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions A3.2 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the accounted for as set out in the accounting policies in note E1.
Where possible, financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of listed market prices by reference to quoted market Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary bid prices for assets and offer prices for liabilities.
These are financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss categorised as Level 1 financial instruments and do not involve are included in foreign exchange gains and losses.
If prices are not readily determinable, fair value is differences on non-monetary items at fair value through profit determined using valuation techniques including pricing or loss are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
models, discounted cash flow techniques or broker quotes.
Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques based A3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements on observable market data at the period end are categorised The preparation of financial statements requires management as Level 2 financial instruments.
Financial instruments valued to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect using valuation techniques based on non-observable inputs the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and are categorised as Level 3 financial instruments.
Level 2 and liabilities, income and expenses.
Disclosures of judgements Level 3 financial instruments therefore involve the use of made by management in applying the Groups accounting estimates.
policies include those that have the most significant effect onthe amounts that are recognised in the consolidated Further details of the estimates made are included in note E2.
Disclosures of estimates and associated In relation to the Level 3 financial instruments, sensitivity assumptions include those that have a significant risk of analysis is performed in respect of the key assumptions used resulting in a material change to the carrying value of assets in the valuation of these financial instruments.
The details of and liabilities within the next year.
The estimates and this sensitivity analysis are included in note E2.3.
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 129 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED A.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued A3.7 Control and consolidation The Group has invested in a number of collective investment A3.3 Pension scheme obligations schemes and other types of investment where judgement is The valuation of pension scheme obligations is determined applied in determining whether the Group controls the using actuarial valuations that depend upon a number of activities of these entities.
These entities are typically assumptions, including discount rate, inflation and longevity.
structured in such a way that owning the majority of the voting External actuarial advice is taken with regard to setting the rights is not the conclusive factor in the determination of financial assumptions to be used in the valuation.
As defined control in line with the requirements of IFRS 10 Consolidated benefit pension schemes are long-term in nature, such Financial Statements.
The control assessment therefore assumptions can be subject to significant uncertainty.
involves a number of further considerations such as whether the Group has a unilateral power of veto in general meetings Further detail on these estimates and the sensitivity of the and whether the existence of other agreements restrict the defined benefit obligation to key assumptions is provided Group from being able to influence the activities.
Further details of these judgements are detailed in note H1.
A3.4 Recognition of pension scheme surplus A4.
Adoption of new accounting pronouncements in 2018 A pension scheme surplus can only be recognised to the In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group extent that the sponsoring employer can utilise the asset has adopted the following amendments, standards, and through a refund of surplus or a reduction in contributions.
interpretations effective from 1 January 2018: A refund is available to the Group where it has an unconditional right to a refund on a gradual settlement of liabilities over time IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers until all members have left the scheme.
A review of the Trust IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive framework for Deeds of the Groups pension schemes that recognise a determining whether, how and when revenue is recognised.
surplus has highlighted that the Scheme Trustees are not The standard does not apply to insurance contracts or financial considered to have the unilateral power to trigger a wind-up instruments within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: ofthe Scheme and the Trustees consent is not needed for Recognition and Measurement.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 the sponsoring company to trigger a wind-up.
Where the last using the full retrospective method of adoption however the beneficiary died or left the scheme, the sponsoring company effect of adopting IFRS 15 has been minimal and has not could close the Scheme and force the Trustees to trigger a resulted in any adjustment in either the current or prior period.
wind-up by withholding its consent to continue the Scheme There has been no change to the Groups accounting policies on a closed basis.
This view is supported by external legal or to the basis of revenue recognition.
As required by the opinion and is considered to support the recognition of a standard, Disaggregation of Revenue disclosures have been surplus.
Management has determined that the scheme included in note C1 to the consolidated financial statements.
administrator would be subject to a 35% tax charge on a The practical expedient under IFRS 15 has been applied and refund and therefore any surplus is reduced by this amount.
remaining performance obligations are not disclosed as the Further details of the Groups pension schemes are provided Group has the right to consideration from customers in in note G6.
amounts that correspond with the performance completed todate.
A3.5 Operating profit Operating profit is the Groups non-GAAP measure of Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: Applying performance and gives stakeholders a better understanding IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 ofthe underlying performance of the Group.
The Group The amendments address concerns arising from implementing isrequired to make judgements as to the appropriate the new financial instruments standard, IFRS 9, before longer-term rates of investment return for the determination implementing IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, which replaces ofoperating profit, as detailed in note B2, and as to what IFRS 4.
The amendments introduce two options for entities constitutes an operating or non-operating item in accordance issuing insurance contracts: a temporary exemption from with the accounting policy detailed in note B1.
applying IFRS 9 and an overlay approach.
The Group has taken advantage of the temporary exemption granted to insurers in A3.6 Acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance IFRS 4 from applying IFRS 9 until 1 January 2021 as a result businesses ofmeeting the exemption criteria as at 31 December 2015.
The identification and valuation of identifiable intangible As required by IFRS 4, a number of disclosures have been assets, such as acquired in-force business or brand included in note E1 to the consolidated financial statements to intangibles, arising from the Groups acquisition of the provide information to allow comparison with entities adopting Standard Life Assurance businesses requires the Group to the standard in 2018.
The IASB has recommended that the make a number of judgements and estimates.
Further details deferral period is extended to 1 January 2022. are included in notes G7 Intangible assets and H2 Acquisitions.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 130 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement A5.
New accounting pronouncements not yet effective of Share-based Payment Transactions The IASB has issued the following new or amended standards The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment and interpretations which apply from the dates shown.
The that address three main areas: the effects of vesting conditions Group has decided not to early adopt any of these standards, on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based payment amendments or interpretations where this is permitted.
transaction: the classification of a share-based payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2018.
Under IFRS 9, all taxobligations: and accounting where a modification to the financial assets will be measured either at amortised cost terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction orfair value and the basis of classification will depend changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled.
onthebusiness model and the contractual cash flow On adoption, entities are required to apply the amendments characteristics of the financial assets.
In relation to the without restating prior periods, but retrospective application impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires the use of ispermitted if elected for all three amendments and other anexpected credit loss model, as opposed to the incurred criteria are met.
The Group has reviewed its current sharecredit loss model required under IAS 39.
The expected based payment schemes and has determined that it does credit loss model will require the Group to account for nothave any cash-settled share based payment schemes expected credit losses and changes in those expected andthat the narrow scope amendment regarding net creditlosses at each reporting date to reflect changes settlement features does not apply.
As a consequence, incredit risk since initial recognition.
theseamendments do not currently have any impact on The Group has taken advantage of the temporary exemption theGroup.
granted to insurers in IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts from applying IFRS 9 until 1 January 2021 recommended Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property deferral period extended by the IASB to 2022 as a result The amendments clarify when an entity should transfer ofmeeting the exemption criteria as at 31 December 2015. property, including property under construction or As at this date the Groups activities were considered to be development into, or out of investment property.
predominantly connected with insurance as the percentage The amendments state that a change in use occurs when of the total carrying amount of its liabilities connected with theproperty meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of insurance relative to the total carrying amount of all its investment property and there is evidence of the change in liabilities was greater than 90%.
Following the acquisition of use.
A change in managements intentions for the use of a the Standard Life Assurance businesses on 31 August 2018, property in and of itself does not provide evidence of a change this assessment was reperformed and the Groups activities in use.
These amendments do not currently have any impact were still considered to be predominately connected with on the Group.
IFRS 9 will instead be implemented at the same time as the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions Insurance Contracts effective from 1 January 2021 IASB andAdvance Consideration recommended extending the implementation date to 2022.
The Interpretation clarifies that, in determining the spot The Group expects to continue to value the majority of exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related itsfinancial assets as at FVTPL on initial recognition, as asset, expense or income or part of it on the derecognition these financial assets are managed on a fair value basis.
ofanon-monetary asset or non-monetary liability relating As detailed in note A4, a number of disclosures have been toadvance consideration, the date of the transaction is the made in note E1 to the consolidated financial statements date on which an entity initially recognises the non-monetary toprovide information to allow comparison with entities asset or non-monetary liability arising from the advance adopting the standard in 2018. consideration.
If there are multiple payments or receipts IFRS 16 Leases 2019.
IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 Leases.
inadvance, then the entity must determine a date of The new standard removes the classification of leases as thetransactions for each payment or receipt of advance either operating or finance leases for the lessee, thereby consideration.
This Interpretation does not have any impact treating all leases as finance leases.
This will result in the onthe Group.
recognition of a right to use asset and a lease liability for allof the Groups previously classified operating leases.
Annual Improvements Cycle 2014-2016: Amendments Short-term leases less than 12 months and leases of toIFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRSs and Amendments low-value assets are exempt from the requirements.
to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The Group has commenced an assessment of the impact The first amendment deletes short-term exemptions for ofthe new standard and has concluded that it will bring its firsttime adopters as they have now served their intended property leases currently classified as operating leases purpose.
The second amendment clarifies that an entity that seenote I5 onto the statement of consolidated financial isa venture capital organisation, or other qualifying entity, may position.
A depreciation charge on the right-of-use assets elect, at initial recognition on an  and an interest expense on the lease liabilities will be basis, to measure its investments in associates and joint recognised.
The overall impact on financial performance and ventures at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
net equity will be immaterial due to the limited number of The Group currently applies the election to measure its these contracts and their relative value.
investments in associates at FVTPL.
There are no further impacts as a result of the amendments.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 131 NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED A.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 2021 IASB recommended extension of implementation date to 2022.
New accounting pronouncements not yet IFRS 17 will replace IFRS 4 the current insurance contracts effectivecontinued standard and it is expected to significantly change the way Annual Improvements Cycle 2015-2017: Amendments to the Group measures and reports its insurance contracts.
IAS 12 Income Taxes, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IFRS 3 The overall objective of thenew standard is to provide an Business combinations IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 2019. accounting model for insurance contracts that is more useful These amendments do not currently have any impact on the and consistent forusers.
The new standard uses three Group.
measurement approaches and the principles underlying Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Plan these measurement approaches will significantly change the Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 2019.
The way the Group measures its insurance contracts and amendments address the accounting when a defined investment contracts with Discretionary Participation benefit plan amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs Features DPF.
These changes will impact profit during a reporting period.
The entity is required to update emergence patterns and add complexity to valuation the assumptions about its obligation and fair value of its processes, data requirements and assumption setting.
planassets to calculate costs related to these changes.
The During 2017, the Group commenced a project to perform an proposed amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits specify initial impact assessment of thestandard on the Group and that the entity is required to use the updated information to produce adetailed implementation plan.
todetermine current service cost and net interest for the Implementation activities during 2018 have included the period followed by these changes.
The Group will apply development of detailed methodologies and policies and the these changes to any plan amendments, curtailments or identification of specific data and systems requirements.
settlements occurring on or after 1 January 2019.
Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its JointVentures: Long-term interests in Associates and Joint Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and Ventures 2019.
The amendments to IAS 28 clarify that IAS 28 effective date deferred.
The amendments address anentity applies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to long-term the conflict between IFRS 10 and IAS 28 in dealing with the interests in an associate or joint venture that form part of the loss of control of a subsidiary that is sold or contributed to net investment in the associate or joint venture but to which anassociate or joint venture.
the equity method is not applied.
The amendments are deferred as a result of the extension of the implementation All of the above have been endorsed by the EU with exception date of IFRS 9 to 2021. of the following amendments: Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 2018 recommended Annual Improvements Cycle 2015-2017: Amendments to implementation date extended by the IASB to 2022 for IAS 12 Income Taxes, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs and IFRS 3 those companies applying the IFRS 4 deferral option.
Business combinations IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 2019 : The proposed amendments would allow for a narrow IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Plan Amendment, Curtailment exception to IFRS 9 that would permit particular financial orSettlement: instruments with prepayment features with negative IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures compensation to be eligible for measurement at amortised References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards: cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 2019.
Accounting Policies: This interpretation clarifies the accounting for income tax treatments that have yet to be accepted by tax authorities, IFRS 3 Business Combinations: and whilst also aiming to enhance transparency.
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards 2020.
Where not specifically stated, the impact on the Group ofadopting the above standards, amendments and Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements interpretations is subject to evaluation.
and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors 2020.
The amendments clarify the definition of material and how it should be applied and ensures that the definition of material is consistent across allIFRS Standards.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2020.
The amendments have revised the definition of a business and aim to assist companies to determine whether an acquisition made is of a business or a group of assets.
The amended definition emphasises that the output of a business is to provide goods and services to customers, whereas the previous definition focused on returns in the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits toinvestors and others.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 132 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
