NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED H. INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES H4.2 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities continued The Group has interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
These investments are held as financial assets in the Groups H4.
Structured entities consolidated statement of financial position held at fair value A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that through profit or loss.
Any change in fair value is included in voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding the consolidated income statement in net investment whocontrols the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to income.
Dividend and interest income is received from administrative tasks only, and the relevant activities are directed by theseinvestments.
A structured entity often has some or all of the following features or attributes: a restricted A summary of the Groups interest in unconsolidated activities: b a narrow and well-defined objective, such as to structured entities is included below.
These are shown provide investment opportunities for investors by passing on risks and rewards associated with the assets of the structured entity according to the financial asset categorisation in the toinvestors: c insufficient equity to permit the structured entity consolidated statement of financial position.
Directly held tofinance its activities without subordinated financial support: collective investment schemes are further analysed by the and d financing in the form of multiple contractually linked predominant asset class in which the entity is invested.
instruments to investors that create concentrations of credit orother risks tranches.
2018 2017 Carrying Carrying value of value of The Group has determined that all of its investments in financial financial collective investment schemes are structured entities.
assets assets In addition, a number of debt security structures and private m m equity funds have been identified as structured entities.
Equities 463 344 The Group has assessed thatit has interests in both Collective investment schemes: consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities as shownbelow: Directly held collective 1 investment schemes : Unit trusts: Equities 17,693 4,166 OEICs: Bonds 7,519 3,175 SICAVs: Property 1,963 472 Private Equity Funds PEFs : Diversified 19,185 1,359 Asset backed securities: Short-term liquidity 12,464 8,465 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs : Indirectly held collective 2 Other debt structures: and investment schemes 11,782 1,264 Phoenix Group EBT.
Fixed and variable rate income securities: The Groups holdings in the above investments are subject Asset backed securities 2,843 607 tothe terms and conditions of the respective funds 73,912 19,852 prospectus and are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values.
The Group holds 1 Directly held collective investment schemes refer to those structured entities directly invested in by Group companies.
Such investments have been analysed by reference redeemable shares or units in each of the funds.
The funds to the predominant asset class the structure is investing in.
are managed by internal and external fund managers who 2 Indirectly held collective investment schemes are those interests in structured entities that are held by collective investment schemes over which it has been apply various investment strategies to accomplish their assessed that the Group exercises overall control and have been consolidated respective investment objectives.
All of the funds are intothe financial statements.
managed by fund managers who are compensated by the The Groups maximum exposure to loss with regard to the respective funds for their services.
Such compensation interests presented above is the carrying amount of the generally consists of an asset-based fee and a performanceGroups investments.
Once the Group has disposed of its based incentive fee and is reflected in the valuation of shares or units in a fund, it ceases to be exposed to any eachfund.
The Groups holdings in the above unconsolidated structured entities are largely less than H4.1 Interests in consolidated structured entities 50%and as such the size of these structured entities are The Group has determined that where it has control over likelyto be significantly higher than their carrying value.
funds, these investments are consolidated structured entities.
Details of commitments to subscribe to private equity funds The EBT is a consolidated structured entity that holds shares and other unlisted assets are included in note I6.
to satisfy awards granted to employees under the Groups share-based payment schemes.
During the year, the Group granted further loans to the EBT of8 million 2017: 4 million.
Further loans are expected tobe granted in 2019.
As at the reporting date, the Group has no intention to provide financial or other support in relation to any other consolidated structured entity.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 198 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
