STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION G. OTHER STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITION NOTES G1.
Provisions A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of a past event, which is likely to result inan outflow of resources and where a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
If the effect is material, the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value ofmoney and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision is recognised for onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from the contracts are less than the related unavoidable costs.
The unavoidable costs reflect the net cost of exiting the contract, which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
Where it is expected that a part of the expenditure required to settle a provision will be reimbursed by a third party the reimbursement isrecognised when, and only when, it is virtually certain that the reimbursement will be received.
This reimbursement shall be recognised as a separate asset within other receivables and will not exceed the amount of the provision.
FCA Transfer thematic of policy Leasehold Staff Known PA GI reviews Restructuring administration properties related incidents provision provision provision provision Other Total 2018 m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 5 10 1 40 54 17 7 134 Additions in the year 1 2 76 25 104 Acquisition of Standard Life Assurance during the year see note H2.1 7 37 225 269 Utilised during the year 1 5 15 54 13 3 7 98 Released during the year 1 1 2 8 17 3 32 At 31 December 5 15 33 17 208 4 73 22 377 Leasehold properties At 31 December 2018, a reimbursement asset of 8 million The leasehold properties provision includes a 3 million 2017: 32 million has been recognised in other receivables 2017: 3 million dilapidations provision in respect of inconnection with the Groups exposure to these complaints.
In addition, a provision has This represents recoveries due from third parties under been made for 2 million 2017: 2 million in respect of the contractual arrangements.
Recoveries of 18 million excess of lease rentals and other payments on properties that 2017: 7 million have been received during the year.
are currently vacant or are expected to become vacant, over the amounts to be recovered from subletting these properties.
FCA thematic reviews provision Abbey Life On 3 March 2016, the FCA published a thematic review report Staff related on the fair treatment of long-standing customers in the life Staff related provisions include provisions for unfunded pensions of insurance sector.
Following completion of the review, Abbey 5 million 2017: 6 million, private medical andother insurance Life was subject to additional investigations.
Specifically, the costs for former employees of 9 million 2017: 2 million.
FCA explored whether remedial and or disciplinary action was necessary or appropriate in respect of exit or paid-up charges Known incidents being applied.
Additionally, Abbey Life was investigated for The known incidents provision was created for historical data potential contravention of regulatory requirements across quality, administration systems problems and process anumber of other areas assessed in the thematic review.
deficiencies on the policy administration, financial reconciliations and operational finance aspects of business outsourced.
In addition, on 14 October 2016, the FCA published its thematic review of non-advised annuity sales.
In its findings, On acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses on the FCA identified concerns in a small number of firms relating 31 August 2018, obligations arising as a result of the areas described to significant communications that took place orally, usually on above were recognised at 37 million on a fair value basis.
The FCA also identified other areas of possible of this balance has been utilised since the acquisition date, with the concern, including in relation to the recording and maintenance remainder expected to be utilised in 2019. of records of calls.
The FCA encouraged all firms to consider its feedback and take appropriate action to address the points PA GI provision raised.
The Group has recognised provisions in respect of its In 2015, PA GI Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, was subject best estimate of the likely costs associated with its obligations to a Companies Court judgement that directed that PA GI is in this regard.
liable to claimants for redress relating to creditor insurance policies within a book of insurance underwritten by PA GI On 14 December 2018, the Group was informed by the FCA until 2006.
As a consequence, PA GI is liable for complaint that it had closed its investigation into Abbey Life following handling and redress with regard to the complaints.
completion of the thematic review into the fair treatment of long-standing customers in the life insurance sector, having The PA GI provision of 17 million 2017: 40 million found that the conduct of Abbey Life did not warrant represents the Groups best estimate of the likely future costs.
Accordingly, 10 million of the provision However, this is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties remaining at 1 January 2018 has been released during the year.
including volumes of future complaints, the rates by which those complaints are upheld and the average redress value.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 175
