NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED B.
EARNINGS PERFORMANCE continued operating profit.
For many types of long-term business, including unit-linked and with-profit funds, movements in B2.
Investment return variances and asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, economic assumption changes limiting the net impact on profit.
For other long-term business, The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means the profit impact of economic volatility depends on the degree that, for internal performance management, the effects of of matching of assets and liabilities and exposure to financial short-term economic volatility are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its The investment return variances and economic assumption long-term business.
The accounting policy adopted in the changes excluded from the long-term business operating calculation of operating profit is detailed in note B1.
The profit are as follows: methodology for the determination of the expected investment return is explained below together with an analysis of investment return variances and economic assumption changes recognised 2018 2017 m m outside of operating profit.
Investment return variances and economicassumption changes B2.1 Calculation of the long-term investment return onlong-term business 283 6 The expected return on investments for both owner and policyholder funds is based on opening economic assumptions applied to the funds under management at the beginning of The net investment return variances and economic the reporting period.
Expected investment return assumptions assumption changes on long term business of 283 million are derived actively, based on market yields on risk-free fixed 2017: 6 million adverse primarily arise due to the positive interest assets at the start of each financial year.
impact of strategic asset allocation activities, including investment in higher yielding illiquid assets, together with the The long-term risk-free rate used as a basis for deriving the impact of gains on hedging positions held by the life funds as long-term investment return is set by reference to the swap a result of declining equity markets in the year.
The Groups curve at the 15 year duration plus 10bps at the start of the exposure to equity movements arising from future profits in year.
A risk premium of 350bps is added to the risk-free relation to with-profit bonuses and unit-linked charges is yieldfor equities 2017: 350bps, 250bps for properties hedged to benefit the regulatory capital position.
The impact 2017: 250bps, 150bps for other fixed interest assets of equity market movements on the value of the hedging 2017: 150bps and 50bps for gilts 2017: 50bps.
instruments is reflected in the IFRS results, but the corresponding change in the value of future profits is not.
The principal assumptions underlying the calculation of the long-term investment return are: B2.3 Owners funds For non-long-term business including owners funds, 2018 2017 thetotalinvestment income, including fair value gains, % % isanalysed between a calculated longer-term return and Equities 5.2 5.0 short-term fluctuations.
Properties 4.2 4.0 The variances excluded from operating profit in relation to Gilts 2.2 2.0 owners funds are as follows: Other fixed interest 3.2 3.0 2018 2017 m m B2.2 Life assurance business Variances on owners funds Operating profit for life assurance business is based on of subsidiary undertakings 193 87 expected investment returns on financial investments backing owners and policyholder funds over the reporting period, withconsistent allowance for the corresponding expected The adverse variance on owners funds of 193 million movements in liabilities.
Operating profit includes the effect 2017: 87 million negative is principally driven by realised ofvariance in experience for non-economic items, for example losses on derivative instruments entered into by the holding mortality, persistency and expenses, and the effect of changes companies to hedge the Groups exposure to equity risk in non-economic assumptions.
Changes due to economic arising from the Groups acquisition of Standard Life items, for example market value movements and interest rate Assurance.
Losses of 143 million were incurred on these changes, which give rise to variances between actual and instruments, together with option premiums of 22 million.
expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately The adverse variance on owners funds for the year ended outside operating profit.
31 December 2017 of 87 million was principally driven by interest rate swaption positions held in the life companies The movement in liabilities included in operating profit reflects shareholder funds.
Such positions were held to hedge the both the change in liabilities due to the expected return on impact of interest rate risk on the Groups regulatory capital investments and the impact of experience variances and position.
With swap yields remaining relatively stable during assumption changes for non-economic items.
2017, option value associated with these contracts fell due to expected option expiry and reduced volatility.
The effect of differences between actual and expected economic experience on liabilities, and changes to economic assumptions used to value liabilities, are taken outside PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 136 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
