STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION H. INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES H1.1 Significant restrictions The ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the Group in H1.
Subsidiaries theform of cash dividends or to repay loans and advances is Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that effective control subject to local laws, regulations and solvency requirements.
isobtained by the Group see basis of consolidation in note A1 andare excluded from consolidation from the date they cease to Each UK Life company and the Group must retain sufficient be subsidiary undertakings.
For subsidiaries disposed of during the capital at all times to meet the regulatory capital requirements year, any difference between the net proceeds, plus the fair value mandated by or otherwise agreed with the PRA.
Further of any retained interest, and the carrying amount of the subsidiary information on the capital requirements applicable to Group including non-controlling interests, is recognised in the entities are set out in the Capital Management note I3.
UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a UK company The Group uses the acquisition method to account for the has distributable reserves sufficient to cover thedividend.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired is In addition, contractual requirements may place restrictions recognised as goodwill.
In certain acquisitions an excess of the onthe transfer of funds as follows: acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities and non-controlling interests, the Pearl Pension Scheme funding agreement includes over cost may arise.
Where this occurs, the surplus of the fair certain covenants which restrict the transfer of funds value of net assets acquired over the fair value of the consideration withinthe Group.
Details are provided in note G6.
is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Pearl Life Holdings Limited PeLHL is required to Directly attributable acquisition costs are included within makepayments of contributions into charged accounts administrative expenses, except for acquisitions undertaken prior to 2010 when they are included within the cost of the acquisition.
onbehalf of the Abbey Life Scheme.
These amounts Costs directly related to the issuing of debt or equity securities are donotform part of the pension scheme assets and included within the initial carrying amount of debt or equity securities at31 December 2018, PeLHL held 46 million where these are not carried at fair value.
Intra-group balances and 2017: 40 million within fixed and variable rate income income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are securities and 1 million 2017: 5 million within cash and eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
cash equivalents in respect of these charged accounts.
The Group has invested in a number of collective investment Further details of when these amounts may become schemes such as Open-ended Investments Companies OEICs, payable to the pensions scheme are included in note G6.
unit trusts, Socit dInvestissement Capital Variable SICAVs, investment trusts and private equity funds.
Acquisitions inequities, bonds, property and cash and cash equivalents.
The H2.1 Acquisition of Standard Life Assurance businesses Groups percentage ownership in these collective investment schemes can fluctuate according to the level of Group and third On 31 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued party participation instructures.
share capital of Standard Life Assurance Limited, Standard Life Pensions Fund Limited, Standard Life International When assessing control over collective investment schemes, theGroup considers those factors described under the Basis of Designated Activity Company, Vebnet Holdings Limited, consolidation in note A1.
In particular, the Group considers the Vebnet Limited, Standard Life Lifetime Mortgages Limited, scope of its decision-making authority, including the existence Standard Life Assets and Employee Services Limited and ofsubstantive rights such as power of veto, liquidation rights Standard Life Investment Funds Limited together known as andthe right to remove the fund manager that give it the ability the Standard Life Assurance businesses from SLA plc for todirect the relevant activities of the investee.
The assessment total consideration of 2,994 million.
The consideration ofwhether rights are substantive rights, and the circumstances consisted of 1,971 million of cash funded by a fully under which the Group has the practical ability to exercise them, underwritten rights issue of 950 million, with the remaining requires the exercise of judgement.
This assessment includes a balance of 1,021 million funded by a mix of new debt and qualitative consideration of the rights held by the Group that are attached to its holdings in the collective investment schemes, Phoenixs own resources.
In addition, SLA plc took a 19.99% rights that arise from contractual arrangements between the equity stake in the Enlarged Group on completion valued at Group and the entity or fund manager and the rights held by third 1,023 million, based on the share price at 31 August 2018. parties.
Inaddition, consideration is made of whether the Group has fide facto power, for example, where third party investments in the collective investment schemes are widely dispersed.
Where Group companies are deemed to control such collective investment schemes they are consolidated in the Group financial statements, with the interests of external third parties recognised as a liability, see the accounting policy for Net asset value attributable to unitholders in note E1.
Certain of the collective investment schemes have noncoterminous period ends and are consolidated on the basis ofadditional financial statements prepared to the period end.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 195
