STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION F3.
Risk Management Insurance risk F3.2 Collateral arrangements This note forms one part of the Risk Management disclosures It is the Groups practice to obtain collateral to mitigate the inthe consolidated financial statements.
Financial risk is counterparty risk related to reinsurance transactions usually included innote E6.
inthe form of cash or marketable financial instruments.
Insurance risk refers to the risk that the frequency or severity Where the Group receives collateral in the form of marketable of insured events may be worse than expected and includes financial instruments which it is not permitted to sell or expense risk.
The contracts for the Life businesses include the re-pledge except in the case of default, it is not recognised following sources of insurance risk: inthe statement of consolidated financial position.
The fair Mortality higher than expected number of death claims value of financial assets accepted as collateral for reinsurance onassurance products and occurrence of one transactions but not recognised in the statement of ormore large claims: consolidated financial position amounts to 3,253 million 2017: 3,640 million.
Longevity faster than expected improvements in life expectancy on immediate and deferred annuityproducts: Where the Group receives collateral on reinsurance transactions in the form of cash it is recognised in the Morbidity higher than expected number of serious illness statement of consolidated financial position along with a claims or more sickness claims which last longer on income protection policies: corresponding liability to repay the amount of collateral received, disclosed as Deposits received from reinsurers.
Expenses policies cost more to administer than expected: Where there is interest payable on such collateral, it is Lapses the numbers of policies terminating early is recognised within Net income under arrangements with different to that expected in a way which increases reinsurers seeF3.3.
The amounts recognised as financial expected claims costs or expenses or reduces assets and liabilities from cash collateral received at future profits: 31 December 2018 are set out below.
Options unanticipated changes in policyholder option exercise rates giving rise to increased claims Reinsurance transactions costs:and 2018 2017 Pricing inadequate or inappropriate pricing of m m newbusiness.
Financial assets 373 368 Financial liabilities 373 368 Objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk The Group uses several methods to assess and monitor F3.3 Net income under arrangements withreinsurers insurance risk exposures both for individual types of risks The Group has reinsured the longevity and investment risk insured and overall risks.
These methods include internal risk related to a portfolio of annuity contracts held within the measurement models, experience analyses, external data HWPF.
At inception of the reinsurance contract the reinsurer comparisons, sensitivity analyses, scenario analyses and was required to deposit an amount equal to the reinsurance stress testing.
In addition to this, mortality, longevity and premium with the Group.
Interest is payable to the reinsurer morbidity risks may in certain circumstances be mitigated on the deposit ata floating rate.
The Group maintains a bythe use of reinsurance.
ringfenced pool of assets to back this deposit liability.
Annuity payments under the reinsured contracts are made by The profitability of the run-off of the closed long-term the Group from the ring fenced assets and the deposit liability insurance businesses within the Group depends, to a is reduced by the amount of these payments.
Periodically the significant extent, on the values of claims paid in the future Group is required to pay to the reinsurer or receive from the relative to the assets accumulated to the date of claim.
reinsurer Premium Adjustments defined as the difference Typically, over the lifetime of a contract, premiums and between the fair value of the ring fenced assets and the investment returns exceed claim costs in the early years deposit amount, such that the deposit amount equals the anditis necessary to set aside these amounts to meet future fairvalue of the ring fenced assets.
This has the effect of obligations.
The amount of such future obligations is assessed ensuring that the investment riskon the ring fenced pool on actuarial principles by reference to assumptions about the ofassets falls on the reinsurer.
The investment return on development of financial and insurance risks.
thering fenced assets included in investment return in the consolidated income statement is equal to an equivalent It is therefore necessary for the Directors of each life company amount recognised in expenses under arrangements to make decisions, based on actuarial advice, which ensure with reinsurers.
anappropriate accumulation of assets relative to liabilities.
These decisions include investment policy, bonus policy 2018 2017 and, where discretion exists, the level of payments on m m early termination.
Interest payable on deposits from reinsurers 11 The Groups longevity risk exposures have increased as a result of the Bulk Purchase Annuity deals it has successfully Premium adjustments 13 acquired, however the vast majority of these exposures are Net income under arrangements reinsured to third parties.
with reinsurers 2 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 169
