STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for making, and continuing to INRESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND make, the Companys Annual Report and Accounts available ACCOUNTS OF PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AnnualReport and Accounts, the Strategic Report, the Directors Report, the Directors remuneration report, the The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and consolidated financial statements and the Company financial functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
62 and 63, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which provides The Groups consolidated financial statements and the anoverview of the development and performance of the Company financial statements, which have been prepared Groups business for the year ended 31 December 2018, inaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true covers the future developments in the business of Phoenix and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Group Holdings plc and its consolidated subsidiaries: and profit of the Group and the Company.
provides details of any important events affecting the Company anditssubsidiaries after the year-end.
For the The Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance and purposes ofcompliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, Directors Report include a fair review of the development the required content of the Management Report can be and the performance of the business and the position of found inthe Strategic Report and this Directors Report, theCompany and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts awhole, together with a description of the principal risks incorporatedby reference.
and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors have prepared the consolidated financial In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider statements and the Company financial statements in that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards provides users who have a reasonable knowledge of business IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
and economic activities with the information necessary for The Directors must not approve the financial statements shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of model and strategy, and is fair, balanced and understandable.
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2019.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: By order of the Board Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
CLIVE BANNISTER JAMES MCCONVILLE State whether IFRS, as adopted by the EU, have been GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR followed, subject to any material departures disclosed AND GROUP DIRECTOR, andexplained in the Group and the Company SCOTLAND financial statements.
4 March 2019 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basisunless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They arealso responsible for safeguarding the assets of theGroup and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 110 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
