NOTES TO THE IFRS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED F. INSURANCE CONTRACTS, INVESTMENT Where policyholders have valuable guarantees, options or CONTRACTS WITH DPF AND REINSURANCE promises in respect of the with-profit business, these costs aregenerally valued using a stochastic model.
Liabilities under insurance contracts In calculating the realistic liabilities, account is taken of the future Classification of contracts management actions consistent with those set out in the Contracts are classified as insurance contracts where the Principles and Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
Groupaccepts significant insurance risk from the policyholder Standard Life Assurance Limited SLAL, a wholly-owned byagreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified subsidiary of the Group, includes the Heritage With Profits Fund uncertain event adversely affects the policyholder.
In 2006, the Standard Life Assurance Company Contracts under which the transfer of insurance risk to the Group demutualised.
The demutualisation was governed by its Scheme from the policyholder is not significant are classified as investment of Demutualisation the Scheme.
Underthe Scheme contracts or derivatives and accounted for as financial liabilities substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the Standard Life see notes E1 and E3 respectively.
Assurance Company were transferred to SLAL.
Some insurance and investment contracts contain a DPF.
The Scheme of Demutualisation the Scheme provides that Thisfeature entitles the policyholder to additional discretionary certain defined cash flows recourse cash flows arising in the benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
Investment HWPF on specified blocks of UK and Ireland business, both contracts with a DPF are recognised, measured and presented participating and non-participating, may be transferred out of that asinsurance contracts.
fund when they emerge, being transferred to the Shareholder Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF Fund SHF or the Proprietary Business Fund PBF of SLAL, Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner and thus accrue to the ultimate benefit of equity holders of the consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims Company.
Under the Scheme, such transfers are subject to certain associated with the reinsured policy.
constraints in order to protect policyholders.
The Scheme also provides for additional expenses to be charged by the PBF to Insurance liabilities theHWPF in respect of German branch business in SLAL.
Insurance contract liabilities for non-participating business, other than unit-linked insurance contracts, are calculated on the basis of Under the realistic valuation, the discounted value of expected current data and assumptions, using either a net premium or gross future cash flows on participating contracts not reflected in the premium method.
Where a gross premium method is used, the WPBR is included in the cost of future policy-related liabilities liability includes allowance for prudent lapses.
Negative policy asareduction where future cash flows are expected to be values are allowed for on individual policies: positive.
The discounted value of expected future cash flows onnon-participating contracts not reflected in the measure on where there are no guaranteed surrender values: or non-participating liabilities is recognised as a separate asset in the periods where guaranteed surrender values do not apply where future cash flows are expected to be positive.
The even though guaranteed surrender values are applicable after Scheme requirement to transfer future recourse cash flows out aspecified period of time.
ofthe HWPF is recognised as an addition to the cost of future For unit-linked insurance contract liabilities the provision is based policy-related liabilities.
The discounted value of expected future on the fund value, together with an allowance for any excess cash flows on non-participating contracts can be apportioned offuture expenses over charges, where appropriate.
between those included in the recourse cash flows and those retained in the HWPF for the benefit of policyholders.
For participating business, the liabilities under insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF are calculated in accordance Applying the policy noted above for the HWPF: with the following methodology: The value of participating investment contract liabilities on liabilities to policyholders arising from the with-profit business theconsolidated statement of financial position is reduced are stated at the amount of the realistic value of the liabilities, byfuture expected net positive cash flows arising on adjusted to exclude the owners share of projected future participating contracts.
bonuses: Future expected cash flows on non-participating contracts are acquisition costs are not deferred: and not recognised as an asset of the HWPF on the consolidated statement of financial position.
However, future expected cash reinsurance recoveries are measured on a basis that is flows on non-participating contracts that are not recourse cash consistent with the valuation of the liability to policyholders flows under the Scheme are used to reduce the value of towhich the reinsurance applies.
participating insurance and participating investment contract The With-Profit Benefit Reserve WPBR for an individual liabilities on the consolidated statement of financial position.
contract is determined by either a retrospective calculation of accumulated asset share approach or by way of a prospective bonus reserve valuation method.
The cost of future policy-related liabilities is determined using a market consistent approach, mainly based on a stochastic model calibrated to market conditions at theend of the reporting period.
Non-market related assumptions for example, persistency, mortality and expenses are based on experience adjusted to take into account of future trends.
The realistic liability for any contract is equal to the sum oftheWPBR and the cost of future policy-related liabilities.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 166 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
