STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION 8.
INVESTMENTS IN GROUP ENTITIES continued For the purposes of the additional fair value disclosures for assets recognised at amortised cost, all loans and receivables On 12 December 2018, the Company became the ultimate are categorised as Level 3 financial instruments.
The fair value parent undertaking of the Group by acquiring the entire share of loans and receivables with no external market is determined capital of Old PGH via a share for share exchange.
The cost of by internally developed discounted cash flow models using a investment in old PGH, reflected in the table above, was risk adjusted discount rate corroborated with external market determined as the carrying amount of the Companys share of data where possible.
the equity of Old PGH on the date of the transaction.
The difference between the cost of investment and the Details of the factors considered in determination of fair value market capitalisation of Old PGH immediately before the share are included in note E2 to the consolidated financial statements.
for share exchange of 4 million has been recognised as an Other reserve, and is shown as a separate component 10.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS of equity.
The accounting policy for cash and cash equivalents is included in note G11 to the consolidated financial statements.
For a list of principal Group entities, refer to note H5 of the consolidated financial statements.
The entity directly held by 2018 the Company is separately identified.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Carrying value Fair value 11.
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2018 2018 m m 2018 Loans due from PLHL note a 1,231 1,231 m Loans due from Old PGH note b 825 808 Loss for the year before tax 2 Total loans and receivables 2,056 2,039 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year tocashflows from operating activities: Investment income from other Group entities 5 Amounts due after 12 months 2,056 Finance costs 5 All loans and receivables balances are due from Group entities Fair value losses 2 and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Foreign exchange movement on borrowings method.
The fair value of these loans andreceivables are atamortised cost 2 also disclosed.
Net decrease in working capital 6 a. O n 12 December 2018, the Company was assigned a Cash generated by operations 428 million subordinated loan by Phoenix Life Holdings Limited PLHL.
The loan accrues interest at a rate of 12.
CAPITAL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 6.675% andmatures on 18 December 2025.
This loan was initially recognised at fair value of 440 million and is The Companys capital comprises share capital, the Tier 1 accreted to par over the period to 2025.
At 31 December Notes and all reserves as calculated in accordance with IFRSs, 2018, the carrying value of the loan was 440 million.
as set out in the statement of changes in equity.
Under English company law, dividends must be paid from distributable On 12 December 2018, the Company was assigned profits.
As the ultimate parent undertaking of the Group, the a450 million subordinated loan by PLHL.
The loan Company manages its capital to ensure that it has sufficient accrues interest at a rate of 4.175% and matures on distributable profits to pay dividends in accordance with its 20 July 2022.
This loan was initially recognised at fair dividend policy.
valueof 448 million and is accreted to par over the periodto 2022.
At 31 December 2018, the carrying At 31 December 2018, total capital was 4,554 million.
valueof the loan was 448 million.
The movement in capital in the period comprises the total comprehensive expense for the period attributable to owners On 12 December 2018, the Company was assigned a of 3 million, proceeds from the issue of shares under the US$500 million loan by PLHL due 2027 with a coupon scheme of arrangement of 4,146 million and the substituted of5.375%.
This loan was initially recognised at fair value Tier 1 Notes of 411 million.
of 349 million and is accreted to par over the period to 2027.
Movement in foreign exchange during the period In addition, the Group also manages its capital on a reduced the carrying value by 6 million.
At 31 December regulatorybasis as described in note I3 to the consolidated 2018, the carrying value of the loan was 343 million.
b. O n 12 December 2018, the Company entered into a new The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are 825 million loan agreement with Old PGH as consideration interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit for the substitution of the Company as issuer of the Tier 1 risk.
The Company has hedged the currency risk on its foreign Notes and 500 million Tier 2 notes.
The loan accrues currency hybrid debt US $500 million and 500 million interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.22% and through a US $500 million internal loan and a 500 million matures on 31 December 2023. internal cross currency interest rate swap.
None of the loans are considered to be past due or impaired.
Details of the Groups financial risk management policies are outlined innote E6 to the consolidated financial statements.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 219 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
CAPITAL AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Credit risk management practices The Companys current credit risk grading framework comprises the following categories: Category Description Basis for recognising ECL Performing The counterparty has a low risk of default and does not have any past-due amounts 12 month ECL Doubtful There has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition Lifetime ECL not credit impaired In default There is evidence indicating the asset is credit-impaired Lifetime ECL credit impaired Write-off There is evidence indicating that the counterparty is in severe financial difficulty Amount is written off and the Group has no realistic prospect of recovery The table below details the credit quality of the Companys financial assets, as well as the Companys maximum exposure to credit risk by credit risk rating grades: Gross Net External Internal 12 month carrying Loss carrying credit credit or lifetime amount allowance amount rating rating ECL m m m Loans and receivables note 9 N A Performing 12 month ECL 2,056 2,056 Other amounts due from Group entities note 15 N A Performing 12 month ECL 20 20 Cash and cash equivalents note 10 AAA N A 12 month ECL 1 1 The Company considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort to assess whether there has been a significant increase in risk since initial recognition.
This includes quantitative and qualitative information and also, forward-looking analysis.
Loans and receivables The Company is exposed to credit risk relating to loans and receivables from other Group Companies, which are considered low risk.
Given their low risk and the short time period since inception of the loan, the loss allowance has been set at less than 1 million.
The Company assesses whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition by assessing whether there have been any historic defaults, by reviewing the going concern assessment of the borrower and the ability of the Group to prevent a default by providing a capital or cash injection.
Amounts due from other Group entities The credit risk from activities undertaken in the normal course of business is considered to be extremely low risk.
The Company assesses whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition by assessing past credit impairments, history of defaults and the long-term stability of the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys cash and cash equivalents are held with bank and financial institution counterparties, which have AAA investment grade ratings.
The Company considers that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties and there being no history of default, and therefore the impact to the net carrying amount shown in the table above is not material.
The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the counterparty is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e. g. when the counterparty has been placed into liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings.
Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Companys recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate.
Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 220 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
