Operating review continued Services Services & Other First Opinion veterinary practices Specialist Referral veterinary centres Grooming salons Insurance Pets Our Services brands Services revenue 133.5m 13.7% Revenue split % Revenue split Growth First Opinion Joint Venture fee income 53.1m 16.1% Other services 80.4m 12.1% Pets at Home Group Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance Our Services segment comprises First Opinion practices and Specialist Referral Centres, grooming salons and pet insurance, in addition to sales of pets.
Pet grooming The partner has access to all the profits The pet grooming market in the UK of the business once the loans are is highly fragmented.
They are also entitled to any grooming salons in Pets at Home stores, increase in value of the business if it The Groom Room is the largest branded is sold to a new partner from our vet chain of pet grooming salons in the UK.
Groom Rooms are separated from the To allow prospective partners to main store by fully glazed partition walls, work with us before committing affording customers an excellent view to a Joint Venture agreement, we of our highly trained colleagues at work.
operate a number of practices that In addition to having a strong, national Veterinary practices are wholly owned.
brand, our grooming operation relies We operate the largest branded network on having highly trained colleagues as of First Opinion veterinary practices in Specialist Division stylists in every salon to deliver a full the UK, with 461 practices operating Specialist Referral Centres are range of grooming services.
mainly under the Vets4Pets brand name.
considerably larger than First Opinion Two thirds of these practices are located practices.
Recognising the strength of Pet insurance in Pets at Home stores, with the our Joint Venture model in First Opinion, We recognise the importance of pet remainder in standalone locations.
we developed a shared ownership insurance as a key underpin of our We also operate four Specialist Referral model for our entry into Specialist veterinary business.
Across the Group Centres around the UK which handle Referrals, which not only allows the we continue to work with Petplan, the most complex veterinary cases.
centres vets or Directors to retain a the UKs most trusted provider of pet significant interest in the business, it also First Opinion Division insurance products.
supports future growth and clinical Our preferred model has always Pets development.
We are already seeing been to build value through shared We invest in a dedicated team of experts, synergies from consolidating services, ownership.
We operate the only such as pathology, into one of our headed by an experienced vet, to large-scale Joint Venture veterinary centres, allowing us to build our provide fully for the welfare needs of services business in the UK in which specialist capability to the advantage the fish, small mammals and reptiles practices, which are all established as of the Group as a whole.
available for sale in our stores.
Only fully individual small businesses, are funded trained colleagues are permitted to sell by a small investment from the vet and With four specialist centres now in the pets and they must be confident that the the Pets at Home Vet Group to create Group, we have retained the experience pets welfare needs will be met fully in its the Joint Venture.
A larger independent of many talented individuals who have new home before a sale can conclude.
bank loan provides for the fit-out and been instrumental in establishing and initial working capital requirements, developing these centres of excellence.
with further funding provided by Pets at This is a powerful resource which will Home over time if needed.
The Group be invaluable to us as we seek to build receives a percentage of the income of our presence in the specialist veterinary the practice in return for the business segment through organic growth and services we provide.
charge is also levied on those practices located in a Pets at Home store.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
