Financial statements Notes forming part of the financial statements Pets at Home Group Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and its registered office is Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green, Handforth, Cheshire, SK9 3RN.
1 Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
1.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value, and in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
New standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC becoming effective during the year have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
1.2 Measurement convention The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as fair value through the profit or loss or as available-for-sale.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
1.3 Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review.
In addition, note 21 to the financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has considerable financial resources and financing facilities and prepares detailed business plans that model headroom on financial covenants for the next three years.
The Directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.4 Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the noncontrolling interests to have a deficit balance.
The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust EBT for the purposes of acquiring shares to fund share awards made to employees.
The EBT is deemed to be a subsidiary of the Group as Pets at Home Group Plc is considered to be the ultimate controlling party for accounting purposes.
The assets and liabilities of these trusts have been included in the consolidated financial information.
The cost of purchasing own shares held by the EBT are accounted for in retained earnings.
Investment in Joint Venture veterinary practices The Group has a number of non-participatory shareholdings in veterinary practice companies, which are accounted for as Joint Venture arrangements.
The veterinary practices were established under terms that require mutual agreement between the Group and the Joint Venture partner, and that do not give the Group power over decision making to affect its exposure to, or the extent of, the returns from its involvement with the practices and therefore are not consolidated in these financial statements.
Further, the Group is not entitled to profits, losses, or any surplus on winding up or disposal of the veterinary practices, and as such no participatory interest is recognised.
The investments have been equity accounted for in the Groups financial statements in accordance with IAS 28.10.
As the Groups shares are non-participatory, and therefore the Group does not share in any profits, losses or other distribution of value from the Joint Venture company, the investments are held at cost, subject to impairment.
The Groups category of shareholding in the veterinary practices entitle the Group to charge management fees for support services provided.
For further details see notes 14, 15 and 26.
1.5 Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation that is effective, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the Groups presentational currency, sterling, at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are reported as an item of other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve or noncontrolling interest, as the case may be.
Functional currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency, and have been rounded to the nearest thousand.
Pets at Home Group Plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1.6 Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
1.7 Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Investments in debt and equity securities Other investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity in the fair value reserve, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the cash flow statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration on acquisition of a subsidiary is valued at fair value at the time of acquisition.
Any subsequent change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss see 1.12.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.8 Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see below.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss, i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement immediately.
1.9 Intra-group financial instruments Financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of companies within the Group are considered to be insurance arrangements and accounted for as such.
In this respect, the Group treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that a payment will be required under the guarantee.
1.10 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold property 50 years Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10 years Leasehold improvements the term of the lease Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
1.11 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
Customer lists are amortised on a straight-line basis over ten years.
Software Software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis between two and seven years.
Pets at Home Group Plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 1.12 Investments held at cost The Companys investments in subsidiaries are held at cost, less impairment.
The carrying amounts are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
1.13 Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Acquisitions on or after 26 March 2010 For acquisitions on or after 26 March 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
If contingent consideration is payable and is dependent on future employment, it is recognised as an expense over the relevant period as a cost of continuing employment.
A combined put and call option over non-controlling interests is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and included within the valuation of goodwill.
Subsequent changes to fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Where a combined written put and call option exists over a non-controlling interest, and the conditions of the agreement provide the Group with present access to the benefits of the ownership of the non-controlling interest, then the acquisition is deemed to reflect 100% ownership and no non-controlling interest is recognised.
A liability is recorded for the expected future acquisition of the non-controlling interest, and is recognised as part of the fair value of the consideration.
Where the written put and call option has an embedded valuation mechanism to reward and retain key individuals employed by the acquired business, who are also non-controlling shareholders, then the expected increase in the financial liability is charged to the income statement as employment costs evenly over the option period within Non-underlying items.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests, which have both present ownership interests and are entitled to a proportionate share of net assets of the acquiree in the event of liquidation, either at their fair value or at their proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
All other non-controlling interests are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Acquisitions prior to 26 March 2010 date of adoption of IFRS IFRS 1 grants certain exemptions from the full requirements of Adopted IFRS for first time adopters.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 26 March 2010, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.14 Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
1.15 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the weighted average cost principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs in bringing them to their existing location and condition, less rebates and discounts.
Provision is made against specific inventory lines where market conditions identify an issue in recovering the full cost of that SKU Stock Keeping Unit.
The provision focuses on the age of inventory and applies a progressive provision against the gross inventory as the line continues to age.
Where necessary further specific provision is made against inventory lines, when the ageing of provision is not deemed sufficient to carry the inventory at net realisable value.
To the extent that the ageing profile of gross inventory as calculated by this provision methodology results in a material provision, it will be disclosed as an estimate that may have an impact on subsequent periods.
To the extent this is material, it will be disclosed in note 1.23.
1.16 Impairment excluding inventories, and deferred tax assets Financial assets including receivables A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
For goodwill, and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each period at the same time.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets the cash-generating unit.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs.
Subject to an operating segment ceiling test, for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal reporting purposes.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Pets at Home Group Plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
1.17 Employee benefits Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
Short term benefits Short term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Share based payments A number of employees of the Companys subsidiaries including Directors receive an element of remuneration in the form of share based payments, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
Share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value of transactions involving the granting of shares is determined by the share price at the date of grant.
The fair value of transactions involving the granting of share options is calculated by an external valuer based on a binomial model.
In valuing share based payments, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Pets at Home Group Plc market conditions.
The cost of share based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of how many of the awards will eventually vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of a share based payment award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of the modification.
Where a share based payment award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification to the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Employee Benefit Trust The assets and liabilities of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT have been included in the Group accounts.
The assets of the EBT are held separately from those of the Company.
Neither the purchase nor sale of own shares leads to a gain or loss being recognised in the Group consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Investments in the Companys own shares held by the EBT are presented as a deduction from reserves and the number of such shares is deducted from the number of shares in issue when calculating the earnings per share.
The trustees of the holdings of Pets at Home Group Plc shares under the Pets at Home Group Employee Benefit Trusts have waived or otherwise foregone any and all dividends paid.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.18 Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.
1.19 Revenue and cost of sales Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods and services, net of discounts, brand match vouchers, coupons, returns and excluding value added tax, sold in the ordinary course of business, and arises from activities in the United Kingdom.
Revenue is recognised when significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable certainty over recovery of the consideration and the amount of revenue, associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably.
Revenue is recognised when transactions are completed in store or online.
Sale of goods in store and online Retail revenue from the sale of goods is recorded net of value added tax, colleague discounts, coupons and vouchers.
Sale of goods represents food and accessories sold in store and online, with revenue recognised at the point of sale for store sales and at point of despatch for online orders.
Gift vouchers and cards Revenue from the sale of gift vouchers and cards is recognised at the time the voucher is redeemed.
VIP loyalty scheme Under the VIP loyalty scheme, points are earned by customers upon the purchase of goods and services.
These points can be converted by nominated charities into gift cards for redemption against goods and services in store and online.
The sales value of the points earned under the VIP scheme are treated as deferred income: the sales are only recognised once the points have been redeemed by the charities.
The points have no value to the customer.
Subscription services Revenue for subscription services is recognised at the point of despatch of each incremental order.
Provision of services Revenue from the provision of services is recorded net of value added tax, colleague discounts, coupons and vouchers.
Provision of services represents veterinary group income, grooming revenue and insurance commissions, with revenue recognised upon provision of the service.
i Veterinary group income Veterinary group income represents revenue from the provision of veterinary services and income from the provision of veterinary administrative support services.
Revenue received for the provision of veterinary services is recognised at the point of provision of the service and is recognised net of value added tax, colleague discounts, coupons and vouchers.
Fee income received from the Joint Venture veterinary practice companies for administrative support services is recognised in the period the services relate to and recorded net of value added tax.
Rental income received from in-store Joint Venture veterinary practices is netted off against the operating lease rental expenses on those stores.
ii Grooming revenue Grooming revenue is recognised net of value added tax, colleague discounts, coupons and vouchers, at the point of provision of the service.
Cost of sales Cost of sales includes costs of goods sold and other directly attributable costs, promotional income and rebate income received from suppliers, including costs to deliver administrative support services to Joint Venture veterinary practices and costs to deliver grooming services.
Pets at Home Group Plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Non-underlying items Income or costs are considered by the Directors to be non-underlying as they relate to either an event that is not expected to re-occur in future periods, or the increase in the fair value of put call liabilities which the Directors consider warrant separate disclosure due to the nature of these arrangements.
Alternative Performance Measures The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted IFRS.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
Further information can be found in the Glossary on pages 169 to 171.
Supplier income A number of different types of supplier income are negotiated with suppliers via the joint business planning process, in connection with the purchase of goods for resale, the largest of which being overrider income and promotional income discussed below.
The supplier income arrangements typically are not co-terminus with the Groups financial period, instead running alongside the calendar year.
Such income is only recognised when there is reasonable certainty that the conditions for recognition have been met by the Group, and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms of the contract.
This income is recognised as a credit within gross margin to cost of sales and, to the extent that the rebate relates to unsold stock purchases, as a reduction in the cost of inventory.
Supplier income is recognised on an accruals basis, based on the expected entitlement that has been earned up to the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts receivable at year end are included within trade and other receivables.
Given the presence of the joint business plans, on the basis of the historic recoverability of accrued balances, and as amounts are typically agreed with suppliers prior to recognition, supplier income is not considered to be an area of significant estimation that could impact on the following financial year.
Supplier income comprises: Overrider income Overrider income comprises three main elements: 1.
Fixed percentage based income: These relate largely to volumetric rebates based on the joint business plan agreements with suppliers.
The income accrued is based on the Groups latest forecast volumes and the latest contract agreed with the supplier.
Income is not recognised until the Group has reasonable certainty that the joint business agreement will be fulfilled, with the amount of income accrued regularly re-assessed and re-measured throughout the contractual period, based on actual performance against the joint business plan.
Fixed lump sum income: These are typically guaranteed lump sum payments made by the supplier and are not based on volume.
Fixed lump sum income is usually predicated on confirmation of a supplier contract and typically includes performance conditions upon the Group, such as marketing and promotional campaigns.
These amounts are recognised periodically when contractual milestones have been met.
Growth income: These are tiered volumetric rebates relating to growth targets agreed with the supplier in the joint business planning process.
These are retrospective rebates based on sales volumes or purchased volumes.
Income is recognised to the extent that it is reasonably certain that the conditions will be achieved, with such certainty increasing in the latter part of the calendar year.
Promotional income Promotional income relates to supplier funded rebates specific to promotional activity run in agreement between the Group and our suppliers.
Rebates are agreed at an individual inventory article level for agreed periods of time and are systemically calculated based on article sales information.
No estimation is applied in calculating the promotional income receivable.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued 1.20 Expenses Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the term of the lease as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Financing income and expenses Financing expenses comprise interest payable under the effective interest rate method, incorporating amortisation of loan arrangement fees, finance charges on shares classified as liabilities and finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method, unwinding of the discount on provisions and net foreign exchange losses that are recognised in the income statement see foreign currency accounting policy.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial time to be prepared for use, are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, and net foreign exchange gains.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Other payables Lease incentives are received in the form of cash contributions and rent free periods.
Cash contributions from landlords for store fit-outs are initially recognised as a liability in the balance sheet at the point the recognition criteria in the lease is met and credited to selling and distribution expenses in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease commencing from access date.
Cash contributions are not discounted.
Rent free periods received from landlords are initially recognised as a liability on the balance sheet, which is then credited to the selling and distribution expenses in the consolidated income statement over the life of the lease.
The effect is to recognise a reduction in selling and distribution expenses on a straight-line basis from property access date to the end of the lease.
Rent-free periods are not discounted.
1.21 Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
1.22 Adopted IFRS not yet applied The following Adopted IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements unless otherwise indicated: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contract with Customers effective date 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 will be effective for the Group for the year ending March 2019, and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups revenues.
The majority of the Groups sales are for standalone products made direct to customers at standard prices either in store or through the website.
Estimates are already made of anticipated returns and sales awaiting delivery to the customer.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective date 1 January 2018.
Provisions held in respect of Joint Venture operating loans will need to be assessed in relation to the expected credit loss rather than the incurred loss mechanism under IAS 39, which is expected to result in an increase to the level of provision required.
The change in standard is likely to impact earnings on a non cash basis, the quantum of which is yet to be determined but could be material.
Pets at Home Group Plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements IFRS 16 Leases effective date 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 will be effective for the Group for the year ending March 2020 onwards and will significantly affect the presentation of the Group financial statements.
All leases with the exception of short term leases will be recognised within the balance sheet with a corresponding liability being the present value of lease payments.
IFRS 16 is also expected to have a material impact on key components within the consolidated income statement as operating lease rental charges will be replaced by depreciation and finance costs.
At the reporting date, the Group has operating lease commitments of 588m as disclosed in note 23 on an undiscounted basis.
The Group has not yet decided which transition approach to apply.
1.23 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions concerning the future that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These judgements are based on historical experience and managements best knowledge at the time and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill and other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Details of CGUs as well as further information about the assumptions made are disclosed in note 11.
Joint Venture receivables The Group provides operating loans and other loans to a number of Joint Venture veterinary practices as detailed in note 26 to cover their cashflow requirements and support their longer term growth.
As referred to in note 26, provisions are held in respect of operating loans to Joint Venture practices.
Judgement is applied in determining the risk-related criteria to allocate practices into bands, and in estimating an appropriate provision percentage to apply to each band.
These judgements are made by management based on their experience and knowledge of the practices.
Future financial performance will be affected if actual experience differs to the estimates and assumptions made in determining the provision.
The quantum of Joint Venture receivables and provision made against these receivables is included in note 26.
The Group has assessed whether the level of an individual practices indebtedness to the Group, particularly those with high levels of indebtedness, implies that the Group has the practical ability to control the Joint Venture, which would result in the requirement to consolidate.
In making this judgement, the Group reviewed the terms of the Joint Venture agreement and managements practical ability to control the activities of the practice, including barriers to the Groups ability to exercise this practical control and potential barriers to the Joint Venture Partner exercising their own power over the activities of the practice.
The Group is satisfied that on the balance of evidence from the Groups experience as shareholder and lender to the practices, it does not currently have the ability to exercise control over those practices to which operating loans are advanced.
Put call options The Group recognises put and call options over non-controlling interests in its subsidiary undertakings as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
The nature of the Groups option agreements are such that there is an element that is a minimum amount, and a growth element to reward and retain key individuals employed by the acquired business, who are also noncontrolling shareholders, and which is linked to improvements in the results of the acquired business.
The growth element would be forfeited under certain conditions by the NCI, including if they ceased to be employed by the Group.
Upon initial recognition, the minimum amount is recognised as a liability at fair value, which is estimated as the present value of the future exercise price based upon the fair value of the business at acquisition.
For the growth element, the expected amount is charged to the income statement as employment costs evenly over the option period within Non-underlying items.
The financial liability is valued based on managements best estimate of the future pay out, which is based on the estimated future earnings.
The charge is spread evenly over the financial years before the put call can be exercised for the first time.
1.24 Dividends Final dividends are recognised in the Groups financial statements as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders such that the Company is obliged to pay the dividend.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period in which they are paid.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting The Directors consider there to be one operating and reportable segment, being that of the sale of pet products and services through retail outlets, specialist vet referral services and the Groups websites.
The Groups Board receives monthly financial information at this level and uses this information to monitor the performance of the store portfolio, allocate resources and make operational decisions.
The internal reporting received focuses on the Group as a whole and does not identify other individual segments.
To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include an additional voluntary disclosure analysing revenue within the reportable segment.
52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 Revenue 000 000 Food 421,894 395,121 Accessories 343,508 321,550 Services and Other 133,522 117,498 898,924 834,169 The Services and Other category includes revenue from management fees for First Opinion veterinary surgeries, veterinary services, grooming services, insurance commissions and the sale of pets.
The performance of the operating segment is primarily based on a measure of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation EBITDA before Non-underlying items.
This can be reconciled to statutory operating profit as follows: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Operating profit 83,874 99,924 Non-underlying items 4,929 996 Underlying operating profit before Non-underlying items 88,803 100,920 Depreciation and amortisation 34,483 29,621 Underlying EBITDA 123,286 130,541 Pets at Home Group Plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 3 Expenses and auditors remuneration Included in operating profit are the following: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Non-underlying operating expenses see below 4,929 996 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 28,280 25,690 Amortisation of intangible assets 6,203 3,931 Rentals under operating leases: Hire of plant and machinery 4,387 4,484 Property 75,922 73,002 Rental income from third party sublets 1,041 828 Rental income from related parties 7,138 6,277 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 176 Share based payment charges 3,936 2,437 Non-underlying items in operating profit in the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 totalled 4,929,000 52 week period ended 30 March 2017: 996,000.
Of this, 2,685,000 relates to the closure of our seven trial Barkers stores and the associated lease commitments including disposal of fixed assets 1,628,000.
Non-underlying operating expenses also includes 1,625,000 in relation to the increase in the fair value of the put and call option over the non-controlling interests in Dick White Referrals Limited, Eye-Vet Limited and Anderson Moores Veterinary Specialists Limited and 619,000 in relation to aborted property and acquisition costs.
Non-underlying items in operating profit in the period ended 30 March 2017 of 966,000 represent costs incurred in relation to the disposal of the Groups 100% holding in Farm-Away Ltd.
The costs include legal and professional fees, redundancy costs and property costs.
The costs noted above are considered by the Directors to be non-underlying as they relate to either an event that is not expected to re-occur in future periods as is the case with the closure of Barkers and disposal of Farm-Away, or the increase in the fair value of put call liabilities which the Directors consider warrant separate disclosure due to the nature of these arrangements.
Auditors remuneration 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Audit of the parent company financial statements 10 10 Amounts receivable by the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 219 200 Review of interim financial statements 32 31 All other services 10 5 271 246 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 4 Colleague numbers and costs The average number of persons employed full time equivalents by the Group including Directors during the period, analysed by category, was as follows: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 Number Number Sales and distribution 6,142 6,152 Administration 559 659 6,701 6,811 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Wages and salaries 180,952 162,936 Social security costs 15,233 13,337 Contributions to defined pension contribution plans 5,725 5,251 201,910 181,524 Remuneration of Directors and Executive Management Team 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Executive Directors emoluments including social security costs 1,135 1,411 Non-Executive Directors emoluments including social security costs 495 534 Executive Directors amounts receivable under share options 31 Executive Directors pension contributions 75 73 Total Directors remuneration 1,736 2,018 Executive Management Team emoluments including social security costs 2,583 3,165 Executive Directors Team amounts receivable under share options 64 Executive Management Team pension contributions 167 161 Total Executive Management Team remuneration 2,814 3,326 In the opinion of the Board the key management, as defined under revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, are the Executive Directors and the Executive Management Team.
Executive Directors emoluments are also included within the Executive Management Team emoluments disclosed above.
Pets at Home Group Plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 5 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares into Ordinary Shares.
52 week period ended 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 After NonAfter NonUnderlying underlying Underlying underlying trading items trading items Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 000s 67,542 62,814 76,319 75,364 Basic weighted average number of shares 500,000,000 500,000,000 500,000,000 500,000,000 Dilutive potential ordinary shares 3,119,537 3,119,537 4,032,406 4,032,406 Diluted weighted average number of shares 503,119,537 503,119,537 504,032,406 504,032,406 Basic earnings per share 13.5p 12.6p 15.3p 15.1p Diluted earnings per share 13.4p 12.5p 15.1p 15.0p 6 Finance income 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Interest receivable 685 760 Total finance income 685 760 7 Finance expense 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Bank loans at effective interest rate 4,773 5,113 Other interest expense 190 187 Total finance expense 4,963 5,300 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 8 Taxation Recognised in the income statement 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Current tax expense Current period 17,837 20,953 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 511 964 Current tax expense 17,326 19,989 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 669 907 Impact of difference between deferred and current tax rates 260 45 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 385 893 Deferred tax expense 544 31 Total tax expense 16,782 20,020 The UK corporation tax standard rate for the period was 19% 2017: 20%.
The March 2016 budget announced a further reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax liability has been calculated based on the rate of 18% which is the blended rate at which items are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax recognised in comprehensive income 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges note 20 412 297 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 52 week period ended 30 March 2017 NonUnderlying underlying Underlying Non-underlying trading items Total trading items Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Profit for the period 67,542 4,728 62,814 76,319 955 75,364 Total tax expense 16,983 201 16,782 20,061 41 20,020 Profit excluding taxation 84,525 4,929 79,596 96,380 996 95,384 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate for the period of 19% 52 week period ended 30 March 2017: 20% 16,060 937 15,123 19,276 199 19,077 Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 260 260 45 45 Depreciation on expenditure not eligible for tax relief 588 588 706 706 Expenditure not eligible for tax relief 721 736 1,457 105 158 263 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 126 126 71 71 Total tax expense 16,983 201 16,782 20,061 41 20,020 The UK corporation tax standard rate for the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 was 19% 52 week period ended 30 March 2017: 20%.
The effective tax rate before Non-underlying items for the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 was 20%.
The principal reason for the difference in rate relates to the non-deductibility of depreciation charged on certain items of capital expenditure.
Pets at Home Group Plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 9 Dividends paid and proposed Group and Company 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Declared and paid during the period Final dividend of 5.5p per share 2017: 5.5p per share 24,912 27,396 Interim dividend of 2.5p per share 2017: 2.5p per share 12,429 12,454 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Final dividend of 5.0p per share 2017: 5.0p per share 24,836 24,912 The trustees of the following holdings of Pets at Home Group Plc shares under the Pets at Home Group Employee Benefit Trusts have waived or otherwise foregone any and all dividends paid in relation to the period ended 29 March 2018 and 30 March 2017 and to be paid at any time in the future subject to the exceptions in the relevant trust deed on its respective shares for the time being comprised in the Trust Funds: Computershare Nominees Channel Islands Limited holding at 29 March 2018: 3,271,102 shares, holding at 30 March 2017: 1,319,091 shares and Wealth Nominees Limited holding at 29 March 2018: nil shares, holding at 30 March 2017: 434,056 shares.
Impairment testing Cash-generating units CGUs within the Group are considered to be the body of stores including vets practices, Specialist Referral Centres and the Groups websites as disclosed in note 2.
The Group is deemed to have one overall group of CGUs as follows: Goodwill At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Pets at Home Group 979,845 979,845 The recoverable amount of the CGU group has been calculated with reference to its value in use.
The key assumptions of this calculation are shown below: At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 Period on which management approved forecasts are based years 3 3 Growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 2% 2% Discount rate pre-tax 11% 10% The goodwill is considered to have an indefinite useful economic life and the recoverable amount is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use a post-tax cash flow projection based on a three-year plan approved by the Board.
The plan is adjusted to remove the contribution from and costs associated with new stores and veterinary practices.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 11 Intangible assets continued The key assumptions in the business plan are like-for-like sales growth, gross and operating profit margins.
The forecast assumptions reflect continual innovation and our deep understanding of our customers.
The projections are based on all available information and growth rates do not exceed growth rates achieved in prior periods.
A different set of assumptions may be more appropriate in future years depending on changes in the macro-economic environment.
The discount rate was estimated based on past experience and industry average weighted average cost of capital.
The Directors have assumed a growth rate projection beyond the three-year period based on inflationary increases.
The total recoverable amount in respect of goodwill for the CGU group as assessed by the Directors using the above assumptions is greater than the carrying amount and therefore no impairment charge has been recorded in each period.
A number of sensitivities have been applied to the assumptions in reaching this conclusion including: Reduction in growth rate applied beyond forecast period by 100 bps Increasing the discount rate by 100 bps Decreasing the sales growth assumptions in the forecast period in combination with a reduction in gross margin percentage of 50bps.
None of the above would result in an impairment.
12 Inventories At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Finished goods 60,529 56,420 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018 is 355,651,000 52 week period ended 30 March 2017: 315,002,000.
Inventory expensed to cost of sales includes the cost of the SKUs Stock Keeping Units sold, supplier income, stock wastage and foreign exchange variances.
At 29 March 2018 the inventory provision amounted to 2.3m 30 March 2017: 1.9m.
The inventory provision is calculated by reference to the age of the SKU.
The provision percentages applied in calculating the provision are as follows: Discontinued stock greater than 365 days: 100% Current stock greater than 365 days with a use by date: 50% Current stock within 180 and 365 days with a use by date: 25% Greater than 180 days with no use by date: 25% In addition, a provision is held to account for store stock losses during the period since which the SKU was last counted.
The value of inventory against which an ageing provision is held is 4.8m 30 March 2017: 4.6m.
In the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018, the value of inventory written off to the income statement amounted to 8.1m 52 week period ended 30 March 2017: 7.8m.
Pets at Home Group Plc 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 13 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: At 29 March 2018 At 30 March 2017 Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 849 849 1,684 1,684 Financial assets 221 221 400 400 Financial liabilities 443 443 211 211 Other short term timing differences 1,861 5,682 3,821 1,990 5,521 3,531 Net tax assets liabilities 2,304 6,752 4,448 2,201 7,605 5,404 Movement in deferred tax during the period 30 March Recognised Recognised 29 March 2017 in income in equity 2018 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 1,684 835 849 Net financial assets 190 412 222 Other short term timing differences 3,530 291 3,821 5,404 544 412 4,448 Movement in deferred tax during the period Liability 31 March acquired on Recognised Recognised 30 March 2016 acquisition in income in equity 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 1,203 181 300 1,684 Net financial assets 107 297 190 Other short term timing differences 3,789 10 269 3,530 4,885 191 31 297 5,404 Company Movement in deferred tax during the period 30 March Recognised in Recognised in 29 March 2017 income equity 2018 000 000 000 000 Net financial assets 112 288 176 The rate used to calculate deferred tax assets and liabilities has been disclosed in note 8.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 14 Other financial assets and liabilities Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Non-current assets Investments in Joint Venture veterinary practices 403 397 Loans to Joint Venture veterinary practices initial set up loans 14,194 12,054 Loans to Joint Venture veterinary practices other loans 4,539 3,416 Other investments 112 112 Other receivables 934 490 Interest rate swaps 521 521 20,182 16,990 521 Investments in Joint Venture veterinary practices initial set up loans Investments represent 403,000 30 March 2017: 397,000 of the B share capital in joint veterinary practice companies.
These investments are accounted for at cost, subject to impairment.
The share capital of the veterinary practice companies is split equally into A Ordinary Shares held by Joint Venture Partners and B Ordinary Shares held by the Group.
Any operational decisions require the agreement of the Joint Venture Partner.
Under the terms of the agreements the Group, B shareholder is not entitled to any profits, losses or dividends, or any surplus on winding up or disposal, although they are entitled to appoint Directors to the Board and carry the same shareholder voting rights as A ordinary shareholders.
The agreements entitle the Group to receive income in relation to support services offered in such areas as clinical development, promotion and methods of operation as well as service activities including accountancy, legal and property.
Loans to Joint Venture veterinary practices Loans to Joint Venture veterinary practices include 14,194,000 30 March 2017: 12,054,000 loans provided to Joint Venture veterinary practice companies trading under the Companion Care and Vets4Pets brands, in which the Groups share interest is non-participatory.
These loans represent a long term investment in the Joint Venture, supporting their initial set up and working capital, and are held at fair value and classified as an available for sale financial asset.
Under the terms of the loans provided to veterinary companies trading under the Companion Care and Vets4Pets brands, the loans attract varying interest rates between 2% and 3%.
There is no set date for repayment of the loans due to the Group.
The loans are held at fair value.
The fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows associated with the loan including interest cash flows.
Pets at Home Group Plc 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Loans to Joint Venture veterinary practices other loans Loans to related parties of 4,539,000 30 March 2017: 3,416,000 represent loan balances to Joint Venture partnership businesses and shared venture partners.
These loans are unsecured, typically for five to seven years and attract an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.8%.
The loans are accounted for as loans and receivables and as such are recognised at amortised cost.
The loans are typically to support capacity expansion.
Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Current assets Fuel forward contracts 78 106 Forward exchange contracts 156 1,757 Interest rate swaps 926 926 1,160 1,863 926 Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Current liabilities Fuel forward contracts Other financial liability Forward exchange contracts 2,333 278 Interest rate swaps 1,112 1,112 Other financial liability 1,000 Finance lease liability 59 119 3,392 1,509 1,112 Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Non-current liabilities Other financial liability 8,675 7,885 Finance lease liability 18 138 8,693 8,023 The current and non-current other financial liabilities include the fair value of the put and call option over the non-controlling interests in subsidiary undertakings and contingent consideration in relation to the acquisitions of Dick White Referrals Limited, Eye-Vet Limited and Anderson Moores Veterinary Specialists Limited and in the 52 week period ended 30 March 2017.
The financial liabilities comprise a minimum amount and a growth element based on estimated future earnings.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 15 Trade and other receivables Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Trade receivables 14,609 13,975 Amounts owed by Joint Venture veterinary practices funding, trading and operating loans 31,298 24,273 Other receivables 7,653 7,617 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 576,795 576,795 Prepayments 15,860 17,111 Accrued income 5,428 6,591 74,848 69,567 576,795 576,795 All balances are included within current assets.
Amounts owed by Joint Venture veterinary practices These represent funding for new practices, trading balances and operating loans owed by Joint Venture veterinary practices to the Group.
The balances above are shown net of provisions held for operating loans of 8,308,000 2017: 3,336,000.
The basis for this provision is discussed in note 1.23.
A 10% increase in the estimate of loss in the operating loans would lead to an increase in the required provision for operating loans of 3.9m.
Whilst these loans are repayable on demand, they are not expected to be recovered in full for a number of years, based on the projected cashflow forecast on a practice by practice basis.
Further details are provided in note 26.
Accrued income Accrued income represents fees to Joint Venture veterinary practices, referral centre fees and income from suppliers that has not yet been invoiced.
16 Cash and cash equivalents Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 59,824 56,345 1,717 1 17 Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Non-current liabilities Secured bank loans 194,519 209,296 194,519 209,296 Total liabilities Secured bank loans 194,519 209,296 194,519 209,296 Terms and debt repayment schedule Carrying Carrying Face value at amount at Face value at amount at 29 March 29 March 30 March 30 March Nominal Year of 2018 2018 2017 2017 Currency interest rate maturity 000 000 000 000 Senior Finance Bank Loans GBP LIBOR 1.25% 2020 195,000 194,519 210,000 209,296 Pets at Home Group Plc 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements The Groups Senior Financing Facilities as amended in April 2015 include a revolving credit facility RCF of 260m.
The RCF expires in April 2020 and is reviewed each period.
Interest is charged at LIBOR plus a margin based on leverage net debt: EBITDA.
Face value represents the principal value of the Senior Finance Bank Loans.
The bank loan is secured against the various tangible, intangible and monetary assets of the Group excluding investments in Joint Ventures and hedging agreements.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being the principal value of the loan net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at a carrying value, which represents the amortised cost of the loans using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
At 29 March 2018 the Group had a revolving credit facility of 260m with a drawn amount of 195m.
The analysis of repayments on the loans is as follows: At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Within one year or repayable on demand Between one and two years Between two and five years 195,000 210,000 195,000 210,000 The combined loans at 29 March 2018 and 30 March 2017 are held by the Company.
Analysis of changes in net debt At 30 March Non-cash At 29 March 2017 Cash flow movement 2018 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 56,345 3,479 59,824 Debt due within one year at face value Debt due after one year at face value 210,000 15,000 195,000 Net debt 153,655 18,479 135,176 18 Trade and other payables Group Company At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Current Trade payables 106,709 98,680 Accruals 46,638 44,115 305 275 Amounts owed to Joint Venture veterinary practices 2,951 1,427 Deferred income 4,063 4,186 Other payables including tax & social security 13,495 17,479 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 268,706 207,612 173,856 165,887 269,011 207,887 Non-current Deferred income 36,200 35,028 The non-current payables represent deferred income in respect of store leases where incentives are spread over the life of the lease.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 19 Provisions Dilapidation Closed stores provision provision Total 000 000 000 Balance at 30 March 2017 643 1,243 1,886 Provisions made during the period 87 1,234 1,321 Provisions used during the period 63 109 172 Balance at 29 March 2018 667 2,368 3,035 At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Current 835 492 Non-current 2,200 1,394 3,035 1,886 The closed stores provision relates to the rent and rates payable on sublet or vacant stores.
A provision is made where the rent receivable on the properties is less than the rent payable, or where management consider there to be a risk on the sublet.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is variable dependent upon the lease expiry dates of the properties concerned, which vary between one and ten years.
Market conditions have a significant impact and hence the assumptions on future cash flows are reviewed regularly and revisions to the provision made where necessary.
In estimating the required provision an assumption is made on the average length to provide for.
In the event that this assumption was to increase by one year, then the provision would increase by 136,000 30 March 2017: 230,000.
The provision is discounted at a rate of 8%, being the estimated average implicit lease rate.
A decrease in this rate of 100 bps would increase the provision by 64,000 30 March 2017: 33,000.
The Company did not hold any provisions at 29 March 2018 or 30 March 2017.
20 Capital and reserves Share capital Group Share capital Share capital Number 000 At 31 March 2016 500,000,000 5,000 At 30 March 2017 500,000,000 5,000 At 29 March 2018 500,000,000 5,000 Company Share capital 29 March 2018 000 At beginning of period 5,000 On issue at period end 5,000 Share capital 30 March 2017 000 At beginning of period 5,000 On issue at period end 5,000 The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Pets at Home Group Plc 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising since 21 November 2011, the date of incorporation of Pets at Home Asia Ltd where the functional currency differs from that of the rest of the Group.
Cash flow hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Retained earnings Included within the Group is Pets at Home Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The EBT purchases shares to fund the share option schemes.
The market value of these shares as at 29 March 2018 was 169.00 pence per share 30 March 2017: 180.90.
Other comprehensive income 29 March 2018 Cash flow Total other Translation hedging comprehensive reserve reserve income 000 000 000 Other comprehensive income 71 71 Cash flow hedges reclassified to profit and loss 473 473 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1,695 1,695 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 412 412 Total other comprehensive income 71 1,756 1,685 30 March 2017 Cash flow Total other Translation hedging comprehensive reserve reserve income 000 000 000 Other comprehensive income 26 26 Cash flow hedges reclassified to profit and loss 330 330 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 1,862 1,862 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 297 297 Total other comprehensive income 26 1,235 1,209 21 Financial instruments Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management framework Risk management in respect of financial risk is carried out by the Group Treasury function under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board provides written principles, through its Group Treasury policy, for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
The main objectives of the Group Treasury function are: To ensure shareholder and management expectations are managed on cash flow and earnings volatility resulting from financial market movements To protect the expected cash flow and earnings from interest rate and foreign exchange fluctuations to within parameters acceptable to the Board and shareholders To control banking costs and service levels Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Market risk i Foreign currency risk The Group sources a significant level of purchases in foreign currency, in excess of US$50m each financial year, and monitors its foreign currency requirements through short, medium and long term cash flow forecasting.
The value of purchases in US dollars continues to increase each year and the risk management policy has evolved with this increased risk.
At 29 March 2018, the Groups policy is to hedge up to 95% of the next 12 months and additionally up to 50% of the following six months out to 18 months forecast foreign exchange transactions, using foreign currency bank accounts and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The transactions are deemed to be highly probable and are based on historical knowledge and forecast purchase and sales projections.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows.
This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments, except for derivatives which are based on notional amounts: 29 March 2018 Euro US Dollar HKD Total 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 160 1,347 2 1,509 Trade payables 994 7,247 8,241 Forward exchange contracts 24 2,153 2,177 Balance sheet exposure 858 8,053 2 8,909 30 March 2017 Euro US Dollar HKD Total 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 6 567 2 575 Trade payables 576 4,930 5,506 Forward exchange contracts 31 1,448 1,479 Balance sheet exposure 539 2,915 2 3,452 Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the following currencies against the pound sterling at the period end date in both years would have increased decreased profit or loss or equity by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
Equity Profit or loss 29 March 30 March 29 March 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 US Dollar 108 72 295 218 Euro 1 2 42 28 A 5% strengthening of the above currencies against the pound sterling in any period would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
As at 29 March 2018 the Group had a senior facility with a face value totalling 195.0m.
The Groups borrowings as at 29 March 2018 incur interest at a rate of 1.25% plus LIBOR at current leverage, which exposes the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The analysis of loan repayments is detailed in note 17.
The Pets at Home Groups policy with regard to interest rate risk is to hedge the appropriate level of borrowings by entering into fixed rate agreements.
The Group has a fixed rate interest rate swap agreements over a total of 142.1m of the senior facility borrowings at the balance sheet date at a fixed rate of 0.183%, which expires on 30 March 2019.
The hedge is structured to hedge at least 70% of the forecast outstanding debt for the next year.
Pets at Home Group Plc 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Profile At the balance sheet date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: Group Company Book value Book value Book value Book value At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Fixed rate instruments Financial liabilities 142,100 152,096 142,100 152,096 Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities 52,419 57,200 52,419 57,200 Total financial liabilities 194,519 209,296 194,519 209,296 All borrowings bear a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR.
Group policy is to hedge at least 70% of the loan to ensure a fixed rate of interest.
Therefore, designated above is the portion of the loan hedged by a fixed rate interest rate swap and the remaining un-hedged portion is designated as variable rate.
Sensitivity analysis A change of 50 basis points in interest rates at the period end date would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates, financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale with fixed interest rates and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the comparative period.
At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Equity Increase 711 761 Decrease 711 761 Profit or loss Increase 262 286 Decrease 262 286 Credit risk Financial risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Credit risk also arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
The Group ensures that the banks used for the financing of the loan facilities and interest rate swap agreements hold an acceptable risk rating by independent parties.
The Group has in place certain guarantees over the bank loans taken out by a number of veterinary practice companies in which it holds an investment.
Further details of these guarantees are disclosed in note 25.
The performance of the veterinary practice companies is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Exposure to credit risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk, being the carrying amount of financial assets, is summarised in the table within the fair values section overleaf.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Management prepares and monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups cash balances based on expected cash flows to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions without risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Covenants are monitored on a regular basis to ensure there is no risk or breach which would lead to an Event of Default and compliance certificates are issued as required to the syndicate agent.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments: Group 29 March 2018 Carrying Contractual 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans note 17 194,519 195,000 195,000 Trade payables note 18 106,709 106,709 106,709 Finance lease liabilities 77 77 59 18 Other financial liabilities 9,675 10,038 1,000 9,038 Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow note 14 2,333 2,333 2,333 313,313 314,157 110,101 18 204,038 30 March 2017 Carrying Contractual 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans note 17 209,296 210,000 210,000 Trade payables note 18 98,680 98,680 98,680 Finance lease liabilities 258 258 119 119 20 Other financial liabilities 7,885 7,885 7,885 Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow note 14 278 278 278 Interest rate swaps used for hedging: Outflow note 14 1,112 1,112 1,112 Fuel forward contracts: Outflow note 14 317,509 318,213 99,077 1,231 217,905 Pets at Home Group Plc 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Company 29 March 2018 Carrying Contractual 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans note 17 194,519 195,000 195,000 194,519 195,000 195,000 30 March 2017 Carrying Contractual 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans note 17 209,296 210,000 210,000 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps note 14 1,112 1,112 1,112 210,408 211,112 1,112 210,000 Liquidity risk and cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with cash flow hedging instruments are expected to occur and to affect profit or loss: Group 29 March 2018 Carrying Expected 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Interest rate swaps: Assets note 14 926 926 926 Forward exchange contracts: Assets note 14 156 156 156 Liabilities note 14 2,333 2,333 2,333 Fuel forward contracts: Assets note 14 78 78 78 1,173 1,173 1,173 30 March 2017 Carrying Expected 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Interest rate swaps: Assets note 14 521 521 521 Liabilities note 14 1,112 1,112 1,112 Forward exchange contracts: Assets note 14 1,757 1,757 1,757 Liabilities note 14 278 278 278 Fuel forward contracts: Assets note 14 106 106 106 994 994 473 521 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Company 29 March 2018 Carrying Expected 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Interest rate swaps: Assets note 14 926 926 926 926 926 926 30 March 2017 Carrying Expected 5 years amount cash flows 1 year or less 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years and over 000 000 000 000 000 000 Interest rate swaps: Assets note 14 521 521 521 Liabilities note 14 1,112 1,112 1,112 591 591 1,112 521 Fair values of financial instruments Investments The fair value of investments are considered to be their carrying value as the impact of discounting future cash flows has been assessed as not material and the investment is non-participatory.
Trade and other payables and receivables The fair value of these items are considered to be their carrying value as the impact of discounting future cash flows has been assessed as not material.
Cash and cash equivalents The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand.
Where it is not repayable on demand such as term deposits, then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date.
Long term and short term borrowings The fair value of bank loans and other loans approximates its carrying value as it has an interest rate based on LIBOR.
Short term deposits The fair value of short term deposits is considered to be their carrying value as the balances are held in floating rate accounts where the interest rate is reset to market rates.
Derivative financial instruments The fair value of interest rate swap contracts and forward exchange contracts are calculated by management based on external valuations received from the Groups bankers and are based on forward exchange rates and anticipated future interest yield respectively.
Any subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in profit or loss.
Put and call options over non-controlling interests Put and call options over non-controlling interests are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and included within the valuation of goodwill.
Pets at Home Group Plc 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Fair values The fair values of all financial assets and financial liabilities by class together with their carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 000 000 000 000 Financial assets held for trading including all derivatives Forward exchange contracts note 14 156 156 1,757 1,757 Interest rate swaps note 14 926 926 521 521 Fuel forward contracts note 14 78 78 106 106 Available for sale financial assets Investment in non-equity share capital and loans note 14 14,709 14,709 12,563 12,563 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 15,869 15,869 14,947 14,947 Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents note 16 59,824 59,824 56,345 56,345 Trade and other receivables note 15 53,560 45,064 45,865 45,865 Loans to related parties note 14 4,539 4,539 3,416 3,416 Total loans and receivables 117,923 109,427 105,626 105,626 Total financial assets 133,792 125,296 120,573 120,573 Financial liabilities including all derivatives Interest rate swaps note 14 1,112 1,112 Forward exchange contracts note 14 2,333 2,333 278 278 Fuel forward contracts note 14 Finance lease liabilities 77 77 258 258 Other financial liabilities 9,675 9,675 7,884 7,884 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 12,085 12,085 9,532 9,532 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings note 17 194,519 194,519 209,296 209,296 Trade payables note 18 106,709 106,709 98,680 98,680 Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 301,228 301,228 307,976 307,976 Total financial liabilities 313,313 313,313 317,508 317,508 Total financial instruments 179,521 188,017 196,935 196,935 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Company 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 000 000 000 000 Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents note 16 1,717 1,717 1 1 Trade and other receivables note 15 576,795 576,795 576,795 576,795 Total loans and receivables 578,512 578,512 576,796 576,796 Total financial assets 578,512 578,512 576,796 576,796 Financial liabilities held for trading including all derivatives Interest rate swaps note 14 591 591 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 591 591 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings note 17 194,519 194,519 209,296 209,296 Trade and other payables note 18 268,706 268,706 207,612 207,612 463,225 463,225 416,908 416,908 Total financial liabilities 463,225 463,225 417,499 417,499 Total financial instruments 115,287 115,287 159,297 159,297 Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation technique used to determine fair value.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Group 29 March 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Available for sale financial assets Investments 14,709 14,709 Derivative financial assets Interest rate swaps 926 926 Fuel forward contracts 78 78 Forward rate contracts Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps Forward rate contracts 2,333 2,333 Other financial liabilities 9,675 9,675 Pets at Home Group Plc 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 30 March 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Available for sale financial assets Investments 12,563 12,563 Derivative financial assets Interest rate swaps 521 521 Fuel forward contracts 106 106 Forward rate contracts 1,757 1,757 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 1,112 1,112 Forward rate contracts 278 278 Other financial liabilities 7,854 7,854 Financial instruments that are within level 3 of the hierarchy are investments and other financial liabilities.
Valuation techniques for the investments are disclosed within note 14.
The other financial liability includes the fair values of the put and call options over the non-controlling interests of subsidiary undertakings and contingent consideration in relation to acquisitions.
The fair values represent the best estimate of amounts payable under an agreed valuation model, based on future earnings performance discounted to present value.
A reconciliation of the level 3 hierarchy of financial instruments has been provided below: Other financial liabilities Investments Total 000 000 000 Balance at 30 March 2017 7,885 12,563 4,678 Additions 2,146 2,146 Charged to Non-underlying 1,625 1,625 Unwinding of discount 165 165 Balance at 29 March 2018 9,675 14,709 5,034 Other financial liabilities Investments Total 000 000 000 Balance at 31 March 2016 5,413 9,143 3,730 Additions 3,420 3,420 Arising on acquisition 2,472 2,472 Balance at 30 March 2017 7,885 12,563 4,678 Company The Company had no derivative financial liabilities as at 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 591 591 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital, which is deemed to be total equity plus total debt, are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance, and to maintain a strong credit rating and headroom on financial covenants.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes appropriate decisions in light of the current economic conditions and strategic objectives of the Group.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the Group.
The funding requirements of the Group are met by the utilisation of external borrowings together with available cash, as detailed in note 17.
A key objective of the Groups capital management is to maintain compliance with the covenants set out in the Senior Financing Facilities and to maintain a comfortable level of headroom over and above these requirements.
Management have continued to measure and monitor covenant compliance throughout the period and the Group has complied with the requirements set.
22 Share based payments At 29 March 2018, the Group has five share award plans all of which are equity settled schemes.
1 The Co-Invest Plan CIP On 25 February 2014 the Company adopted the Co-Invest Plan CIP.
Matching awards under the CIP as described in section 1 b below were made on 17 March 2014 to Executive Directors and the Senior Executives by reference to corresponding investment pledges by those colleagues.
These matching awards vested over a period of three years subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and, once vested as to performance, will become exercisable in equal one-third tranches in years three, four and five subject to continued employment with the Group.
These awards were granted at nil cost.
a Eligibility Only the Executive Directors, the Senior Executives and certain other senior colleagues were selected to participate in the CIP.
b Type of awards Colleagues were invited to participate in the CIP by making an investment or pledge of their own shares the Co-Invest Shares, which could include existing, locked-in shares or new shares acquired with cash, in return for a nil cost-matching award over shares the Matching Award.
Matching Awards will be granted by reference to a ratio not exceeding one matched share for every Co-Invest Share pledged.
Matching Awards under the CIP will not form part of a participants pensionable earnings and are not transferable other than on death.
c Individual limits The Executive Directors and the Senior Executives pledged Co-Invest Shares with a market value equal to 2.5 times their annual salary.
Other senior colleagues who elected to participate in the CIP pledged Co-Invest Shares with a market value equal to a limit specified by the Remuneration Committee, but not exceeding 1 times their annual salary.
Pets at Home Group Plc 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements d Performance, vesting and performance adjustment The Matching Awards granted on 17 March 2014 vested subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions outlined below.
To the extent that any future awards are granted, different conditions may apply in the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions are as follows: 75% of the Matching Award was subject to the CAGR in the Companys earnings per share EPS over three financial years, namely FY15, FY16 and FY17 together the Performance Period which, for the avoidance of doubt, ended on 30 March 2017.
If the CAGR in the Companys EPS was 10%, then 10% of the total Matching Award would vest.
If the CAGR in the Companys EPS was 17.5% or more, then 75% of the total Matching Award would vest.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these two points.
For the avoidance of doubt, if the CAGR in EPS was less than 10% over the Performance Period then the amount of the Matching Award which would vest under this EPS performance condition would be nil.
25% of the total Matching Award was subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR as compared to a comparator group made up of a selected group of retail companies over the Performance Period.
Vesting of 6.25% of the total Matching Award would occur for median performance.
Vesting of the maximum 25% of the total Matching Award would occur for upper quartile performance or above.
Vesting would occur on a straight-line basis between these two points.
If the Companys TSR performance over the Performance Period was below median, then the amount of the Matching Award which would vest under this TSR performance condition would be nil.
To the extent vested as to performance, Matching Awards became exercisable in three equal amounts on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of 17 March 2014, but subject to continued employment with the Group.
2 CSOP On 25 February 2014 the Company adopted the CSOP.
Part I of the CSOP is tax approved under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and provides for the grant of tax approved options.
Part II of the CSOP provides for the grant of unapproved options.
The tax approved options under Part I of the CSOP will be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment with the Group.
These awards will be granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date as agreed with HMRC.
a Eligibility All colleagues, including the Executive Directors and Senior Executives, are eligible to participate in the CSOP, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
b Grant of options No options may be granted more than ten years after the adoption of the CSOP.
Options under the CSOP will not form part of a colleagues pensionable earnings.
c Vesting and performance Colleagues who receive options under the CSOP and under the PSP in connection with Admission will be subject to the same performance conditions described in section 1 d above in respect of both grants.
Colleagues who only receive options under the CSOP in connection with Admission will not be subject to performance conditions.
d Exercise price The price at which an option holder may acquire shares on the exercise of an option shall be determined by the Board but shall not be less than the greater of market value of a share at the time of grant and its nominal value.
The exercise price is therefore fixed at grant date.
e Individual limits No option may be granted to an eligible colleague under Part I of the CSOP which would result in the aggregate exercise prices of shares comprised in all outstanding options granted to him her under Part I, when aggregated with outstanding options held under any other tax approved executive share option scheme established by the Company, exceeding the tax approved limit currently 30,000.
In addition, both under Part I and II of the CSOP the aggregate exercise price of shares comprised in options granted to a colleague under the CSOP and the PSP in any financial year shall not exceed 150% of his her annual salary for that year.
For the purposes of these limits, market value will be calculated by reference to the market value of the shares on or prior to the relevant date of grant as determined by the Board following consultation with the Remuneration Committee and subject to HMRC approval if applicable.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 22 Share based payments continued Part II of the CSOP provides for the grant of unapproved options.
This enables options to be granted under the same terms as Part I of the CSOP but without complying with the particular requirements of the legislation applicable to tax approved CSOP Schemes.
The provisions of the CSOP that do not apply under Part II include the 30,000 limit and the need to seek HMRC approval for the scheme and subsequent amendments as applicable.
3 PSP On 25 February 2014 the Company adopted the PSP.
Awards under the PSP were made on 17 March 2014 and annually thereafter up until 2017 after which no further awards were granted.
The awards will be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of this date, subject to continued employment with the Group and the satisfaction of performance conditions.
a Eligibility Only the Executive Directors, the Senior Executives and certain other senior colleagues were selected to participate in the PSP.
b Grant of awards Awards under the PSP will not form part of a colleagues pensionable earnings.
Awards are not transferable other than on death without the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
c Exercise price The price at which a colleague may acquire shares on the exercise or vesting of an award under the PSP shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee on the date of grant, and may, if the Remuneration Committee determines, be nil or nominal value only.
d Scheme limits The number of newly issued shares over which or in respect of which awards may be granted under the PSP on any date shall be limited so that: i the total number of shares issued and issuable in respect of options or awards granted in any ten-year period under the PSP and any other discretionary share option scheme of the Company including the CIP, RSA and the CSOP but other than to satisfy dividend equivalent payments is restricted to 5% of the Companys issued shares calculated at the relevant time: and ii the total number of shares issued and issuable pursuant to options or awards granted in any ten-year period under the PSP and any other employee share scheme operated by the Company including the CIP, CSOP, SAYE and RSA but other than to satisfy dividend equivalent payments is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued shares calculated at the relevant time.
For the purposes of these limits, no account will be taken of options or awards granted before, on or in connection with Admission and no account will be taken of options or awards which have lapsed, been surrendered or otherwise become incapable of exercise or vesting.
Shares held in treasury will be treated as newly issued shares for the purposes of these limits as long as this is required by institutional investor guidelines, but for the avoidance of doubt shares acquired in the market will not.
e Individual limits The aggregate market value of shares comprised in awards granted to a colleague under the PSP, RSA and the CSOP in any financial year shall not exceed 150% of their annual salary for that year.
For the purposes of awards granted on or before Admission, market value for these purposes was calculated by reference to the Offer Price.
For the purposes of awards granted following Admission, market value for these purposes will be calculated by reference to the market value of the shares on the relevant date of grant as determined by the Board following consultation with the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion.
f Performance For awards granted on, or in connection with, Admission, the performance conditions are the same as for the CIP outlined in Section 1 d above.
4 SAYE On 25 February 2014, the Company adopted the SAYE which was registered with and self-certified with HMRC on 4 April 2015.
The rules of the SAYE were adopted pursuant to Schedule 3 of the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and provide for the grant of tax approved options.
In September each year, the Company issues invitations under the rules of the SAYE which provides eligible colleagues with an opportunity to receive share options at a 20% discount to the market price.
The maximum monthly savings is 500 per month.
The Executive Directors have elected to participate in the Sharesave, along with 30% of eligible colleagues.
Pets at Home Group Plc 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements The options are granted once a year, and in normal circumstances they are not exercisable until completion of a three-year savings period, beginning on 1 December each year, and will then be exercisable for a period of six months following completion of the relevant savings period.
a Eligibility All colleagues and full-time Directors of the Group, who have been in continuous service for such period of time not exceeding five years as may be determined by the Board prior to the relevant date of grant of an option and who are liable to UK income tax, are eligible to participate in the SAYE.
Participation may also be offered, at the discretion of the Board taking account of the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee, to other Directors or employees who otherwise do not satisfy all of the above criteria, although Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the SAYE.
b Issue of invitations Invitations to participate in the SAYE may be made during each 42 day period from and including i the date on which any amendment to the SAYE is approved or adopted by the Companys shareholders ii the announcement of the Companys final or interim results for any financial period, iii the occurrence of an event which the Remuneration Committee considers to be an Non-underlying event concerning the Group or iv changes to the legislation affecting tax approved SAYE option schemes coming into effect.
If any of the above periods is a close period as a result of the application of the Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Companies or as a result of the Companys equivalent internal share dealing rules and the Company is prohibited from issuing invitations and or granting options as a result, then invitations may be made within 42 days of the end of the close period.
Invitations may be issued by the trustee of an employee benefit trust.
No invitations may be issued or options granted more than ten years after the adoption of the SAYE.
c Exercise price The price at which an option holder may acquire shares on the exercise of an option shall be determined by the Board but shall not be less than the greater of 80% of the market value of a share at the time of grant and its nominal value.
d Savings contract Options may be granted by the Board or the trustee of an employee benefit trust.
Upon applying for an option, the colleague will be required to enter into an approved savings contract with a savings institution nominated by the Company which lasts for three years.
The maximum amount which an employee is permitted to contribute under SAYE contracts is 500 per month.
The Board may set lower savings limits than this for different colleagues by reference to objective criteria such as levels of salary or length of service.
The minimum contribution is 5 per month or such greater amount as the Board may specify, not to exceed 10.
The total exercise price of the shares over which the option is granted may not exceed the aggregate of the monthly contributions and bonus payable at the end of the colleagues related SAYE contract.
e Scheme limits The number of newly issued shares over which or in respect of which options may be granted under the SAYE on any date of grant shall be limited so that the total number of shares issued or capable of being issued in any ten-year period under all the Companys employee share schemes including the CIP, CSOP, PSP and SIP but other than to satisfy dividend equivalent payments is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued shares calculated at the relevant time.
Any options or rights to acquire shares granted before, on or in connection with Admission will be excluded from this limit, and no account will be taken of options or awards which have lapsed, been surrendered or otherwise become incapable of exercise or vesting.
f Exercisability Options will normally be exercisable during a period of six months following the allocation of a bonus under the related SAYE contract and will normally lapse upon cessation of employment.
Earlier exercise is, however, permitted if the colleague dies or leaves employment through injury, disability, redundancy or retirement or where a colleague leaves employment of the Group by reason of his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group, or if the undertaking in which he is employed is sold outside the Group.
Early exercise will also be permitted in the event of a takeover, reconstructions or voluntary winding up of the Company.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 22 Share based payments continued 5 RSA On 20 July 2017 the Company adopted the RSA.
Awards under the RSA were made on 20 July 2017 and annually thereafter and will be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of this date, subject to continued employment with the Group and the satisfaction of performance conditions.
a Eligibility All colleagues, including the Executive Directors and Senior Executives, are eligible to participate in the RSA, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
b Grant of awards Awards under the RSA will not form part of a colleagues pensionable earnings.
c Exercise price The price at which a colleague may acquire shares on the exercise or vesting of an award under the RSA shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee on the date of grant, and may, if the Remuneration Committee determines, be nil or nominal value only.
d Scheme limits The number of newly issued shares over which or in respect of which awards may be granted under the RSA on any date shall be limited so that: i the total number of shares issued and issuable in respect of options or awards granted in any ten-year period under the RSA and any other discretionary share option scheme of the Company including the CIP, PSP and the CSOP but other than to satisfy dividend equivalent payments is restricted to 5% of the Companys issued shares calculated at the relevant time: and ii the total number of shares issued and issuable pursuant to options or awards granted in any ten-year period under the RSA and any other employee share scheme operated by the Company including the CIP, CSOP, SAYE and PSP but other than to satisfy dividend equivalent payments is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued shares calculated at the relevant time.
e Individual limits The aggregate market value of shares comprised in awards granted to a colleague under the RSA, PSP and the CSOP in any financial year shall not exceed 150% of their annual salary for that year.
Market value for these purposes will be calculated by reference to the market value of the shares on the relevant date of grant as determined by the Board following consultation with the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion.
Fair value of share awards The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of a peer group of companies over a relevant period prior to award.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise, which has been taken as three years.
The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with a life equal to this expected life.
Options are valued using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model for the non-market based EPS element performance conditions and a Monte-Carlo simulation for the market-based TSR element performance conditions.
Special provisions allow early exercise in the case of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or because the Company which employs the option holder ceases to be part of the Group, or in the event of a change in control, reconstruction or winding up of the Company.
Pets at Home Group Plc 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements The key assumptions used in the fair value of the awards were as follows: CIP PSP PSP PSP 2015 2017 2016 2015 At grant date Share price 2.45 2.59 2.75 2.45 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 30% 32% 30% 30% Option life years 3 10 10 10 Expected dividend yield 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% Risk free interest rate 1.07% 0.50% 1.07% 1.07% Weighted average fair value of options granted 2.06 2.06 2.06 2.06 CSOP SAYE 2017 2016 2015 2018 2017 2016 2015 At grant date Share price 2.59 2.75 2.31 1.97 2.46 2.88 1.75 Exercise price 2.59 2.75 2.31 1.57 1.97 2.30 1.40 Expected volatility 32% 32% 37% 32% 32% 30% 30% Option life years 10 10 10 3 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield 2.00 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% Risk free interest rate 0.50% 2.25% 2.25% 0.20% 0.20% 1.07% 1.07% Weighted average fair value of options granted 0.65 0.89 0.75 0.61 0.70 0.75 0.47 As both the CIP and PSP awards have a nil exercise price the risk free rate of return does not have any effect on the estimated fair value.
Movements in awards under share based payment schemes: CIP PSP CSOP SAYE RSA Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Outstanding at start of year 1,649 3,406 6,331 6,880 18,266 Granted 2,901 3,209 6,110 Forfeited 736 933 1,016 4,370 475 7,530 Exercised 86 25 27 1,484 1,622 Lapsed Outstanding at end of year 827 2,448 5,288 3,927 2,734 15,224 Weighted average exercise price 0.00 0.00 2.58 1.65 0.00 The Group income statement charge recognised in respect of share based payments for the current period is 3,936,000 2017: 2,437,000.
23 Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Land and buildings Other At 29 March At 30 March At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Less than one year 77,808 76,738 3,380 3,607 Between one and five years 281,088 284,115 5,883 4,881 More than five years 228,955 244,079 795 263 587,851 604,932 10,058 8,751 Land and buildings relate to the hire of stores and other trading properties under operating leases.
No lease is considered individually significant and therefore there are no material contingent rents, renewal or purchase options or lease restrictions within the portfolio.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 23 Operating leases continued During the period ended 29 March 2018 80,309,000 was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases period ended 30 March 2017: 77,486,000.
The Company does not have any operating leases.
Sublease income The Group has a number of leases on properties from which it no longer trades.
These properties are often sublet to third parties at contracted rates.
The income is recognised within selling and distribution expenses in line with the rents payable as set out in the rental agreements.
At 29 March At 30 March 2018 2017 000 000 Less than one year 877 877 Between one and five years 2,879 3,405 More than five years 216 563 3,972 4,845 24 Commitments Capital commitments At 29 March 2018, the Group is committed to incur capital expenditure of 3,561,000 30 March 2017: 1,387,000.
Capital commitments predominantly relate to the cost of investment in new IT systems and to fit out new Pets at Home stores.
At 29 March 2018, the Group has committed to provide funding to related party Joint Venture companies of 360,000 30 March 2017: 615,000 which remains undrawn.
At 29 March 2018, the Group had a commitment to increase the loan funding to Joint Venture companies of 870,000 30 March 2017: 1,080,000, this increase in funding is written into the Joint Venture agreements and become payable when certain criteria are met.
25 Contingencies Veterinary practices Provisions are maintained by the Group, where necessary, against certain balances held with the veterinary practices.
During the period, the Group also had in place certain guarantees over the bank loans taken out by a number of veterinary practice companies in which it holds an investment in non-participatory share capital.
At the end of the period, the total amount of bank overdrafts and loans guaranteed by the Group amounted to 9,490,000 30 March 2017: 9,850,000.
The Group is also a guarantor for the lease for veterinary practices that are not located within Pets at Home stores.
26 Related parties Veterinary practice transactions The Group has entered into a number of arrangements with third parties in respect of veterinary practices.
These veterinary practices are deemed to be related parties due to the factors explained in note 1.4.
Financial commitments provided to related party veterinary practices for funding are set out in note 24.
During the period, the Group had in place certain guarantees over the bank loans taken out by a number of veterinary practice companies in which it holds an investment in non-participatory share capital.
Pets at Home Group Plc 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements The transactions entered into during the period and the balances outstanding at the end of the period are as follows: 29 March 2018 30 March 2017 000 000 Transactions 1 Fees for services provided to veterinary practices 53,112 45,754 Rental and other occupancy charges to veterinary practices 11,653 10,686 Total income from veterinary practices 64,765 56,440 Balances Included within Trade and other receivables note 15 : Funding for new practices 1,595 2,435 Trading balances 1,998 Operating loans Gross value of operating loans 38,011 23,176 Provision held for operating loans 8,308 3,336 Net operating loans 29,703 19,840 Included within Other financial assets and liabilities note 14 : Loans to Joint Venture practices initial set up loans 14,194 12,054 Loans to other related parties non-current other loans 4,539 3,416 Loans to other related parties current Included within Trade and other payables note 18 : Trading balances 2,951 1,427 Total amounts receivable from veterinary practices before provisions 55,388 41,652 1 The prior year fees for services provided to veterinary practices has been restated to reflect only income directly attributed to services provided to Joint Venture veterinary practices.
Fees for services provided to related party veterinary practices relate to charges for support services offered in such areas as clinical development, promotion and methods of operation as well as service activities including accountancy, legal and property.
Funding for new practices represents the amounts advanced by the Group to support with surgery opening costs.
The funding is short term and the related party Joint Venture company draws down their own bank funding to settle these amounts outstanding with the Group shortly after opening.
Trading balances represent costs incurred income received by the Group in relation to the services provided to the veterinary practices that have yet to be recharged.
Operating loans represent amounts advanced to related party veterinary practices to cover working capital requirements and support their longer term growth.
The loans do not attract interest and are repayable on demand, although they are expected to be repaid over a number of years based on the projected cashflow forecast on a practice by practice basis, some over an extended period of years.
In the 52 week period ended 29 March 2018, the value of balances written off to the income statement amounted to 701,000 period ended 30 March 2017: 1,221,000.
At 29 March 2018, the Group had a commitment to increase the loan funding to Joint Venture companies of 870,000 30 March 2017: 1,080,000 : this increase in funding is written into the Joint Venture agreements and becomes payable when certain criteria are met.
Key management personnel Details of remuneration paid to key management personnel are set out in note 4.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries Company Investments in subsidiaries 000 At 29 March 2018 and 30 March 2017 936,179 Registered office address Pets at Home Asia Limited: Units 704 5A, 7 F, Tower B, Manulife Financial Centre, 223-231 Wai Yip Street, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
PAH Pty Limited: Herbert Greer & Rundle, Level 21, 385 Bourke Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia.
Pure Pet Food Ltd: Unit 6, Brookmills Saddleworth Road, Greetland, Halifax, West Yorkshire, England, HX4 8LZ.
The registered office of all the remaining companies in which the Group has an interest in the share capital is Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green, Handforth, Cheshire, SK9 3RN.
Group Details of the subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Dick White Referrals Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 76 76 Eye-Vet Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 90 90 Anderson Moores Veterinary Specialists Ltd Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 75 75 Brand Development Limited Indirect Guernsey Ordinary 100 100 Companion Care Services Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Companion Care Management Services Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Les Boues Limited Indirect Jersey Ordinary 100 100 Northwest Surgeons Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 PAH Pty Limited Indirect Australia Ordinary 100 100 Pet Investments Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Asia Limited Indirect Hong Kong Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Financial Services Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Holdings Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home No.
1 Limited Direct United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Superstores Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Veterinary Specialist Group Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home Vets Group Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets for Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets GB Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Kestrel Debt Recovery Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pets at Home ESOT Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pet City Holdings Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pet City Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Pet City Resources Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets 4 Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Vets4Pets Services Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets Holdings Limited Indirect Guernsey Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets I. P. Limited Indirect Guernsey Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets Services Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets UK Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets Limited Indirect Guernsey Ordinary 100 100 Vets4Pets Veterinary Group Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Sombrero Holdings Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Sombrero Intl Holdings Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Caledonian Veterinary Specialists Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Pets at Home Group Plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Addlestone Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Barnstaple Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Bedlington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Bishop Auckland Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Blackburn Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Bodmin Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Bolton Central Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Bracknell Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Bradford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Bridlington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Bristol Longwell Green Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Bromborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Caledonian Veterinary Specialists Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Cambridge Perne Road Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Canvey Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Chorley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Coalville Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Colchester Layer Road Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Companion Care Kendal Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Companion Care Nottingham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Companion Care Slough Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 50 Coventry Canley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Craigleith Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Crosby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Cross Hands Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Croydon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 50 Denbigh Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Dundee Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 East Grinstead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Ellesmere Port Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Falkirk Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Feltham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Gillingham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Great Yarmouth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Havant Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Hemsworth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Hexham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Hucknall Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Inverness Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Kingswood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Leamington Spa Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Leven Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Lichfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Littleover Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Long Eaton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Loughton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Melton Mowbray Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Mexborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Newark Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Newbury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 50 Newhaven Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Norwich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Nottingham Castle Marina Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Poynton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Ripon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Salford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Scunthorpe Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Selby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Sheffield Heeley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Stocksbridge Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Stoke-On-Trent Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Street Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Teesside Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Telford Madeley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 The Heart Of Dulwich Veterinary Care Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Tiverton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Totton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Uttoxeter Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 0 Warminster Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Warrington Winnick Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 West Drayton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 100 Yeovil Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 100 50 The Group holds an indirect interest in the share capital of the following companies: Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Aberdeen Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Abingdon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Abtw Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Accrington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Airdrie Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Alsager Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Alton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Altrincham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Amesbury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Andover Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bagshot Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Bangor Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bangor Wales Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Barnsley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Barnwood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Barry Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bath Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Bearsden Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bedford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bedminster Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Beeston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Belfast Stormont Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Beverley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bicester Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Biggleswade Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bishops Stortford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Bishopston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bitterne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Blackheath Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Blackpool Squires Gate Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Blackpool Warbreck Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Blackwood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bolton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bonnyrigg Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Borehamwood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bourne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bramley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Brighouse Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bristol Emerson Green Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bristol Imperial Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bristol Kingswood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bromsgrove Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Buckingham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bulwell Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Burscough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Burton-On-Trent Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Bury St Edmunds Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Bury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Byfleet Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Caerphilly Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Camborne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cannock Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Canterbury Sturry Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cardiff Ely Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cardiff Road Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Carlisle Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Carmarthen Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Carrickfergus Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Castleford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Catterick Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Chadwell Heath Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cheadle Hulme Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Chester Caldy Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Chester Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Chesterfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cirencester Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Clevedon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Cleveleys Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Clifton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Clitheroe Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Clowne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Colne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Aintree Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Andover Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Ashford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Ashton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Aylesbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Companion Care Ayr Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Ballymena Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Banbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Barnsley Cortonwood Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Basildon Pipps Hill Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Basildon Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Basingstoke Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Beckton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bedford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Belfast Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bishopbriggs Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bletchley Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bolton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bournemouth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Braintree Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Brentford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bridgend Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bridgwater Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Brislington Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Bristol Filton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Broadstairs Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Burgess Hill Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cambridge Beehive Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cambridge Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cannock Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Canterbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cardiff Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Charlton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Chatham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Chelmsford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cheltenham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Chesterfield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Chichester Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Chingford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 30 Companion Care Chippenham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Christchurch Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Colchester Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Corstorphine Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Coventry Walsgrave Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Cramlington Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Crawley Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Crayford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Croydon Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Derby Kingsway Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Derby Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Dunstable Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Eastbourne Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Ely Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Enfield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Exeter Marsh Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Exeter Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Companion Care Falmouth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Fareham Collingwood Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Fareham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Farnborough Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Farnham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Folkestone Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Fort Kinnaird Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Friern Barnet Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Gloucester Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Harlow Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Hatfield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Hemel Hempstead Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care High Wycombe Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Hove Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Huddersfield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Huntingdon Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Ilford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Companion Care Ipswich Martlesham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Keighley Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Kidderminster Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Kings Lynn Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Kirkcaldy Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Leicester Beaumont Leys Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Leicester Fosse Park Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Leighton Buzzard Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Linwood Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Lisburn Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Liverpool Penny Lane Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Livingston Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Llantrisant Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Macclesfield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Maidstone Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Merry Hill Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Milton Keynes Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care New Malden Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Newbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Newcastle Kingston Park Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Newport Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Northampton Nene Valley Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Norwich Hall Road Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Norwich Longwater Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Norwich Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Oldbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Oldham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Orpington Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Oxford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Perth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Peterborough Bretton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Peterborough Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Plymouth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Poole Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Companion Care Portsmouth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Preston Capitol Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Pudsey Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Reading Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Redditch Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Redhill Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Romford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Rotherham Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Rustington Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Salisbury Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Scarborough Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Southampton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Southend-On-Sea Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Speke Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Stevenage Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Stirling Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Stockport Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Stoke Festival Park Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Stratford-Upon-Avon Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Swansea Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Swindon Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Tamworth Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Taunton Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Telford Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Thamesmead Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 98 100 Companion Care Truro Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Tunbridge Wells Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Wakefield Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Weston-Super-Mare Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Winchester Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Winnersh Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Woking Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Woolwell Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Worcester Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Companion Care Wrexham Holt Road Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Corby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Craigavon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Crescent Link Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Crewe Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Dagenham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Darlington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Daventry Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Davidsons Mains Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Denton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Dewsbury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Doncaster Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 60 60 Dorchester Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Dover Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Droitwich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Drumchapel Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Dudley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 164 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Dumbarton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Dunfermline Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Durham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 East Kilbride South Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Eastleigh Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Eastwood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Eccleshill Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Epsom Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Evesham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Filton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Gamston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Gateshead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Glasgow Forge Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Goldenhill Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Gosport Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Grantham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Gravesend Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Greasby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Greenford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Grimsby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Guernsey Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Halesowen Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Halifax Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hamilton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Harrogate New Park Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Harrogate Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hartlepool Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hastings Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Haverfordwest Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Haverhill Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Hayling Island Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hedge End Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Hemel Hempstead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hendon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hereford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hertford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 High Wycombe Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hinckley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Huddersfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hull Anlaby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hull Stoneferry Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Hull Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Ilkeston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Inverurie Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Ipswich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Irvine Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Kendal Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Kettering Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Kidderminster Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Kilmarnock Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Kirkby in Ashfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Lancaster Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Larne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Launceston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Leeds Birstall Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Leeds Colton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Leeds Kirkstall Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Leeds Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Leicester St Georges Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Leigh Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Leigh-On-Sea Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Letchworth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Leyland Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Lincoln South Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Linlithgow Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Lisburn Longstone Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Liverpool OS Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Llandudno Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Llanelli Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Llanrumney Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Longton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Loughborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Luton Gipsy Lane Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Luton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Lytham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Maidenhead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Maidstone Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Maldon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Malvern Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Mansfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Mapperley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Market Harborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Marlborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Merthyr Tydfil Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Middlesbrough Cleveland Park Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Middlesbrough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Middleton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Millhouses Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Monmouth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Morpeth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Musselburgh Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 New Milton Vets4pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newcastle-Upon-Tyne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newmarket Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newport Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newton Abbot Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newton Mearns Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newtownabbey Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Newtownards Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 North Tyneside Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Northallerton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Northampton Riverside Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 166 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Northampton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Northwich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Nottingham Chilwell Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Nottingham Netherfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Nuneaton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Oadby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Old Kent Road Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Oxford Cowley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Paisley Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Penrith Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pentland Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Peterborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pontypridd Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Poole Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Portishead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 0 Portsmouth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Prenton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Prescot Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Preston Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Prestwich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Pure Pet Food Ltd Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 33 33 Quinton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rawtenstall Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rayleigh Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Redditch Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rhyl Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Richmond Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rochdale Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rotherham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rugby Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rugby Central Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Ruislip Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Rushden Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Selly Oak Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sevenoaks Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sheffield Drakehouse Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sheffield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sheffield Wadsley Bridge Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sheldon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Shelfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Shrewsbury Meole Brace Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Shrewsbury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sidcup Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sittingbourne Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Solihull Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Somercotes Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 South Shields Quays Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 South Shields Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Southampton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Southend Airport Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Southend-On-Sea Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 Notes forming part of the financial statements continued 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Class of At 29 March At 30 March Company Holding incorporation shares held 2018 % 2017 % Southport Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 St Albans Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 St Austell Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 95 95 St Helens Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 St Neots Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Stafford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Stechford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Stockton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Stourbridge Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sudbury Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Sunderland South Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 100 Sunderland Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sutton Coldfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sutton In Ashfield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Swindon Bridgemead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Swinton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Sydenham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Thamesmead Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Thurrock Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Tilehurst Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Torquay Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Trafford Park Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Trowbridge Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wakefield Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Walkden Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wallasey Bidston Moss Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Walsall Reedswood Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Waltham Abbey Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Walton on Thames Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Walton Vale Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Warrington Riverside Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Warrington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Washington Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Waterlooville Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Watford Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wellingborough Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 West Bromwich Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Weymouth Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Widnes Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wigan Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wimbledon Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wokingham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wolverhampton Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Worksop Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Worthing Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wrexham Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Wsm Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Yate Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 York Clifton Moor Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 York Vets4Pets Limited Indirect United Kingdom Ordinary 50 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 168 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
