STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION I6.
Events after the reporting period This note analyses the Groups other commitments.
The financial statements are adjusted to reflect significant events that have a material effect on the financial results and that have occurred between the period end and the date when the financial 2018 2017 statements are authorised for issue, provided they give evidence m m of conditions that existed at the period end.
Events that are To subscribe to private equity funds indicative of conditions that arise after the period end that do not and other unlisted assets 655 543 result in an adjustment to the financial statements are disclosed.
To purchase, construct or develop investment property and income strips 125 On 4 March 2019, the Board recommended a final dividend of For repairs, maintenance or 23.4p per share 2017: 25.1p per share for the year ended enhancements of investment property 15 1 31 December 2018.
Payment of the final dividend is subject toshareholder approval at the AGM.
The cost of this dividendhas not been recognised as a liability in the financial I7.
Contingent liabilities statements for 2018 and will be charged to the statement ofchanges in equity in 2019.
Where the Group has a possible future obligation as a result of apast event, or a present legal or constructive obligation but it N LYONS isnot probable that there will be an outflow of resources to settle C BANNISTER the obligation or the amount cannot be reliably estimated, this is J MCCONVILLE disclosed as a contingent liability.
A BARBOUR C FLEMING I7.1 Annuity sales K GREEN As set out in note G1, at the request of the Financial Conduct W MAYALL Authority FCA, SLAL are conducting a past business review B ODWYER of non-advised annuity sales.
The purpose of the review is to J POLLOCK identify whether relevant customers received sufficient B RICHARDS N SHOTT information about enhanced annuities to make the right K SORENSON decisions about their purchase, and where appropriate provide redress to customers who have suffered loss as a result of not having received sufficient information.
The Group has 4 March 2019 recognised provisions with regard to its obligations identified as a result of this activity to date.
In relation to this review, the FCA is carrying out an investigation and it is possible that the FCA may impose a financial penalty on the Group.
At this stage it is not possible to determine a reliable estimate of the financial impact of this contingent liability andthe determination of any liability arising remains dependent on the occurrence of uncertain future events, including finalisation of the FCAs review.
Any financial impact on the Group would be expected to be mitigated by the indemnity agreement that exists with SLA plc, subject to the liability caps that exist within the agreement.
Further details are provided in note G1.
I7.2 Legal proceedings In the normal course of business the Group is exposed to certain legal issues, which involve litigation and arbitration.
At the period end, the Group has a number of contingent liabilities in this regard, none of which are considered by theDirectors to be material.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 213
