NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS A.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance Following the creation of the new UK-registered holding company, A1.
Basis of preparation the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements for the year ended accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
31 December 2018 set out on pages 121 to 213 comprise The consolidated financial statements were previously prepared in thefinancial statements of Phoenix Group Holdings plc accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting theCompany and its subsidiaries together referred Standards Board IASB.
As at 31 December 2018 there were no toasthe Group, and were authorised by the Board differences between IFRSs adopted by the EU and those issued ofDirectorsfor issue on 4 March 2019. by the IASB in terms of their application to the Group, and therefore there is no impact on the consolidated financial Under a scheme of arrangement in accordance with section statements in the current or prior period as a result of this change.
86 of the Cayman Islands Companies Law between Phoenix Group Holdings Old PGH, the former ultimate parent Restatement of prior period information company of the Group, and its shareholders, all of the issued Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance shares inOld PGH were cancelled and an equivalent number businesses see note H2, the Group has chosen to revise ofnewshares in Old PGH were issued to the Company thepresentation of its 2018 consolidated income statement toaid inconsideration for the allotment to Old PGH shareholders understanding of the Enlarged Groups results.
Where necessary, ofone ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary 2017 comparative amounts and accompanying notes have been shareinOld PGH that they held on the scheme record date, restated to reflect .
The Group has reassessed its operating segments to reflect the The scheme of arrangement had the effect of the Company way in which the business is now being managed following the being inserted above Old PGH in the Group legal entity acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
organisational structure and constitutes a group reconstruction.
Comparative segmental performance information has been It has been accounted for in accordance with the principles restated in line with the revised segments and further details are ofa reverse acquisition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
In applying the principles of reverse acquisition accounting, As noted above the equity structure disclosed for the 2017 the consolidated financial statements have been presented comparative period has been restated to reflect the difference asa continuation of the Old PGH business and the Group is between the par value of shares issued by the Company andthe presented as if the Company had always been the ultimate shares issued by Old PGH prior to the share for shareexchange.
The comparative equity structure has This impacts the statement of consolidated financial position and beenrestated to reflect the difference between the par the statement of consolidated changes in equity.
valueof shares issued by the Company 39 million and theshares issued by Old PGH nil prior to the share In addition, the presentation of gross premiums written, premiums forshareexchange, with a corresponding adjustment ceded to reinsurers, policyholder claims and reinsurance recoveries tosharepremium.
In addition, the presentation within the in respect of certain corporate pension fide-risking transactions has  changes in equity of the impact been updated in the 2017 comparative amounts to better reflect ofshares issued during the year by Old PGH up to the date the underlying structure of the transactions.
ofthe share for share exchange reflects the par value of theshares issued by the Company.
None of the restatements of prior period information have impacted the profit or loss or total equity attributable to the owners No other adjustments have been reflected in equity, and as of the parent.
aconsequence, the carrying values of the components of equity recognised in the consolidated financial statements Basis of consolidation aredifferent to the corresponding balances in the financial The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company.
statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, including collective investment schemes, where the Group The consolidated financial statements have been prepared exercises overall control.
In accordance with the principles setout ona going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group controls for investment property, owner-occupied property and those an investee, if and only, if the Group has all thefollowing: financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments that have been measured at fair value.
power over the investee: exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling with the investee: and rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise stated.
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect itsreturns.
Assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported inthe statement of consolidated financial position only when The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised assessing whether it has power over an investee, including amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, relevant activities, substantive and protective rights, voting rights ortorealise the assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
and purpose and design of an investee.
The Group reassesses Income and expenses are not offset in the consolidated whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances income statement unless required or permitted by an indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS or elements of control.
Further details about the consolidation of interpretation, as specifically disclosed in the accounting subsidiaries, including collective investment schemes, is included policies of the Group.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 128 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
