STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION E. FINANCIAL ASSETS & LIABILITIES Associates E1.
Fair values Investments in associates that are held for investment purposes are accounted for under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Financial assets and Measurement as permitted by IAS 28 Investments in Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the Associates and Joint Ventures.
These are measured at fair value trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase through profit or loss.
There is no investment in associates which or sell the asset.
The majority of the Groups loans and deposits are designated as Derecognition of financial assets loans and receivables and are non-derivative financial assets with A financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active isderecognised where: market and only include assets where a security has not been The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: issued.
These loans and deposits are initially recognised at cost, The Company retains the right to receive cash flows from being the fair value of the consideration paid for the acquisition theassets, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full ofthe investment.
All transaction costs directly attributable to without material delay to a third party under a pass-through theacquisition are also included in the cost of the investment.
arrangement: or Subsequent to initial recognition, these investments are carried atamortised cost, using the effective interest method.
The Group The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows holdsa portfolio of loans that are designated at FVTPL.
from the asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor Derivative financial instruments are largely classified as held for retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, trading.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently buthas transferred control of the asset.
are remeasured to fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments are not classified as held for On initial recognition, financial liabilities are recognised when trading where they are designated and effective as a hedging dueand measured at the fair value of the consideration received instrument.
For such instruments, the timing of the recognition less directly attributable transaction costs with the exception of ofany gain or loss that arises on remeasurement to fair value in liabilities at FVTPL for which all transaction costs are expensed.
profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities except for Equities, fixed and variable rate income securities, collective liabilities under investment contracts without DPF and other investment schemes and certain loans and deposits are liabilities designated at FVTPL are measured at amortised cost designated at FVTPL and accordingly arestated in the statement using the effective interest method.
of consolidated financial position at fairvalue.
They are designated Financial liabilities are designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL at FVTPL because this is reflective of the manner in which the and where doing so results in more meaningful information financial assets are managed and reduces a measurement because either: inconsistency that would otherwise arise with regard to the insurance liabilities that the assets are backing.
it eliminates or significantly reduces accounting mismatches thatwould otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or Reinsurers share of investment contracts liabilities without recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases: or DPFare valued on a basis consistent with investment contracts a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed liabilities without DPF as detailed under the Financial liabilities and its performance is evaluated and managed on a fair value section below.
basis, in accordance with a documented risk management Impairment of financial assets orinvestment strategy, and information about the investments The Group assesses at each period end whether a financial asset isprovided internally on that basis to the Groups key or group of financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
TheGroup first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
If it is determined that no objective evidence ofimpairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, orcontinues to be recognised, are not included in the collective assessment of impairment.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded securities and derivatives are based on quoted market prices at the period end.
The quoted market price used for financial assets is the applicable bid price on the period end date.
The fair value of investments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques such as broker quotes, pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Where pricing models are used, inputs are based on marketrelated data at the period end.
Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, estimated future cash flows are based oncontractual cash flows using current market conditions and market calibrated discount rates and interest rate assumptions forsimilar instruments.
For units in unit trusts and shares in open-ended investment companies, fair value is determined by reference to published bid-values.
The fair value of receivables and floating rate and overnight deposits with credit institutions is their carrying value.
The fair value of fixed interest-bearing deposits is estimated usingdiscounted cash flow techniques.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 143
