134 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 General Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Playtech plc the Company is a company domiciled in the Isle of Man IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 has replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has had a significant effect on the Group in the Playtech and its subsidiaries the Group develop unified software platforms for the online and land-based gambling industry, targeting online and land-based operators.
Playtechs gaming applications online casino, poker and other P2P games, bingo, mobile, live gaming, land-based following areas: kiosk networks, land-based terminal and fixed-odds games are fully inter-compatible and can be freely incorporated as stand-alone applications, Equity investments classified as available for sale financial assets under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been accessed and funded by the operators players through the same user account and managed by the operator by means of a single, powerful classified as being at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FVTPL, unless an irrevocable election is made on the equity investment under IFRS 9. management interface.
Since June 2018, through the acquisition of Snaitech, Playtech directly owns and operates the leading sports betting and All fair value gains in respect of those assets are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and accumulated in retained earnings.
gaming brand in online and retail in Italy, Snai.
Any balance in the equity investment reserve relating to investments now treated as FVTPL on transition has been moved to retained earnings.
The Groups financial trading division has four primary business models, being: Previously, under IAS 39, impairments of such assets were recognised in profit or loss, and gains and losses accumulated in reserves were recycled to profit or loss on disposal.
B2C retail contracts for difference CFD, through www.
com where the Group acts as the execution venue and the market-maker The impairment provision on financial assets measured at amortised cost such as trade and other receivables have been calculated in on a variety of instruments which fall under the general categories of foreign exchanges, commodities, equities and indices accordance with IFRS 9s expected credit loss model, which differs from the incurred loss model previously required by IAS 39.
The Group has B2B clearing and execution services for other retail brokers and professional clients, through CFH, where the Group acts as a matched-principal chosen not to restate comparatives on adoption of IFRS 9 and, therefore, both of these changes have been processed at the date of initial liquidity provider and straight through processes STPs the trades to prime brokers and clearing houses such as BNP, Jeffries, UBS, Citi etc application i. e. 1 January 2018, and presented in the statement of changes in equity.
The change to an expected credit losses model as required under IFRS 9 has had an immaterial impact on the Group.
B2B clearing and execution for other retail brokers, where the Group acts as the execution venue and market-maker As allowed by the transitional rules in IFRS 9, prior year financial statements have not been restated and, in any event, no material changes in the B2B technology and risk management services, where the Group provides platform, CRM, reporting and risk-management technology to the retail numbers recognised were required.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has though resulted in presentational changes as described above.
broker market On the date of initial application, 1 January 2018, the financial instruments of the Group were as follows, with any reclassifications noted: Where the Group acts as the execution venue, or provides execution services, these activities are undertaken in entities regulated by the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Australian Securities & Investments Commission ASIC, the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission Measurement category Carrying amount CySEC, the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission FSC, and the South African Financial Sector Conduct Authority FSCA.
Original New Difference Original IAS 39 New IFRS 9 000 000 000 Basis of preparation The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is Non-current financial assets therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Despite the net current liability position at the year Equity securities Available for sale FVTPL 381,346 381,346 end and the potential repayment of the convertible bond in November 2019: the Groups corporate planning processes include completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
During Current financial assets the year, additional business plans and financial projections were prepared to specifically consider the acquisition of Snaitech and issuance of Trade receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 107,165 107,165 a longterm debt issuance, and its impact on the Groups future performance and funding requirements.
The Group has also obtained a three year revolving credit facility in 2018 of 272 million.
The Directors continuously assess the long-term viability of the Playtech Group as part of Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 93,322 93,322 their ongoing monitoring of the Company.
Refer to going concern, viability, responsibilities and disclosure in the Directors Report.
Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost Amortised cost 583,957 583,957 Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies Non-current liabilities The significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of the financial information, on a consistent basis, are: Bonds Amortised cost Amortised cost 276,638 276,638 Accounting principles Contingent consideration and redemption liability FVTPL FVTPL 137,080 137,080 This financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting standards and interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union Current liabilities adopted IFRSs.
In the current year the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and Loans and borrowings Amortised cost Amortised cost 200,000 200,000 the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as they have been adopted by the European Union, that are Contingent consideration and redemption liability FVTPL FVTPL 20,592 20,592 relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2018. a New standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers New standards impacting the Group that have been adopted in the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
Under IFRS 15, revenue and which have given rise to changes in the Groups accounting policies are: is recognised when a customer obtains control of the goods or services.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Determining the timing of the transfer of control at a point in time or over time requires judgement.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 the cumulative effect method without practical expedients, with the effect of initially applying this standard recognised at the date of initial application i. e. 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 has not been restated i. e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18, IAS 11 and related interpretations.
Additionally, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 have not generally been applied to comparative information.
Due to the nature of the revenue of the Group and the low number of fixed revenue contracts in existence, the transition to IFRS 15, net of tax, on retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is not material.
Hence, the impacts of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 and its statement of profit or loss and OCI for the year then ended is also not material.
IFRS 15 did not have a significant impact on the Groups accounting policies with respect to other revenue streams.
For the description of the principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments.
For more detailed information about reportable segments, see Notes 4 and 5.
136 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont.
Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued b New standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective Foreign currency There are a number of standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB that are effective in future The financial information of the Gambling Division, which includes the Company and some of its subsidiaries, is prepared in Euros the functional accounting periods that the Group has decided not to adopt early.
The most significant of these is: currency, which is the currency that best reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the Gambling Division.
Transactions and balances in foreign currencies are converted into Euros in accordance with the principles set forth by IAS 21 IFRS 16 Leases mandatorily effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Accordingly, transactions and balances have been converted into the presentation currency of Euros as follows: IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17, Leases and its related interpretations.
The standards instructions annul the existing requirement from lessees to classify leases as operating or finance leases.
Instead, for lessees, the new standard presents a unified model for the accounting treatment of all leases Monetary assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date according to which the lessee has to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in its financial statements.
Nonetheless, IFRS 16 includes two exceptions to the general model whereby a lessee may elect to not apply the requirements for recognising a right-of-use asset and a liability Income and expense items at exchange rates applicable as of the date of recognition of those items with respect to short-term leases of up to one year and or leases where the underlying asset has a low value.
Non-monetary items are converted at the rate of exchange used to convert the related balance sheet items i. e. at the time of the transaction.
IFRS 16 is applicable for annual periods as of January 1 2019, with the possibility of early adoption.
Exchange gains and losses from the aforementioned conversion are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income IFRS 16 includes various alternative transitional provisions, so that companies can choose between the full retrospective application or recognising The financial information of the financial division is prepared in US Dollars the functional currency, which is the currency that best reflects the a cumulative effect, which means application with the possibility of certain practical expedients as from the mandatory effective date with an economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the financial division.
The transactions and balances are converted adjustment to the balance of retained earnings at that date the modified approach.
into the presentation currency of Euros as follows: Method of application and expected effects Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date The Group plans to adopt IFRS 16 as from January 1 2019 using the modified approach, with an adjustment to the balance of retained earnings Income and expense items at average exchange rates applicable at the period of recognition of those items as at January 1 2019.
Equity at historic rate The Group has elected the following expedients: 1 Not separating non-lease components from lease components and instead accounting for all the lease components and related non-lease Exchange gains and losses from the aforementioned conversion are recognised in the foreign exchange reserve.
components as a single lease component.
Revenue recognition 2 Relying on a previous assessment of whether an arrangement contains a lease in accordance with current guidance with respect to The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from selling services with revenue recognised at a point in time when services agreements that exist at the date of initial application.
have been delivered to the customer.
3 Relying on a previous assessment of whether a contract is onerous in accordance with IAS 37 at the transition date, as an alternative to assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
Type of service Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms 4 Excluding initial direct costs from measurement of the asset at the transition date.
Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology and the provision of certain services provided via various distribution channels online, mobile or land-based interfaces.
Royalty income is based on the underlying gaming revenue 5 Using hindsight when determining the lease term, meaning data presently available that may not have been available at the original date of earned by our licensees and is recognised in the accounting periods in which the gaming transactions occur entering into the agreement.
Royalty income invoices are billed and paid on a monthly basis Expected effects: The Board is still considering if it will measure the right of use assets under the modified approach as if the new standard had always been Trading income Trading income represents gains including commission and losses arising on client trading activity, primarily in applied from the beginning of the lease using the incremental borrowing rate of the lessee at the date of initial application, or at an amount contracts for difference on shares, indexes, commodities and foreign exchange.
Open client positions are carried equal to the lease liability, as possible under the transitional provisions of IFRS 16 on a lease-by-lease basis.
Accordingly, application of the at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue as well standard may result in an adjustment of retained earnings at the date of initial application as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed These changes are expected to result in an increase in the balance of right-of-use assets at the date of initial application in the range of Fixed-fee income Other revenue includes revenue derived from the provision of certain services and licensed technology for which 111.2-121.9 million and an increase in the balance of the lease liability at the date of initial application in the range of 119.6-121.9 million charges are based on a fixed-fee and stepped according to the usage of the service technology in each accounting depending on the approach chosen.
As a result, these changes are expected to result in a decrease up to 8.3 million in equity at the date period.
Income is recognised over the period of service once the obligations under the contracts have passed.
of initial application Where amounts are billed and obligations not met, revenue is deferred.
Amounts are mostly billed and paid on Accordingly, depreciation and amortisation expenses will be recognised in subsequent periods in respect of the right-of-use asset, and the a monthly basis need for recognising impairment of the right-of-use asset will be examined in accordance with IAS 36.
Furthermore, financing expenses will be recognised in respect of the lease liability.
Therefore, as from the date of initial application and in subsequent periods, depreciation expenses Cost-based revenue Cost-based revenue is the total revenue charged to the licensee based on the actual costs incurred from and financing expenses will be recognised instead of lease expenses relating to assets leased under an operating lease, which were presented production and an additional percentage charged on top as a profit.
Cost based revenue invoices are recognised as part of the general and administrative expenses item in the income statement.
In addition, the nominal discount rates used for measuring in line with the cost and paid on a monthly basis the lease liability are in the range of 2.7% to 8%.
This range is affected by differences in the length of the lease term, differences between the B2C revenue Revenues from concessions related to the gaming machines are recognised less the flat-rate gaming tax various groups of assets and so forth and winnings paid out The impact on the EBITDA as a result of the implementation of IFRS 16 is expected to be a growth of around 25 million.
Additionally, Revenues from the gaming machines are recognised less the winnings, jackpots and flat-rate gaming tax the expected effect of the standards application on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year ended 31 December but inclusive of compensation payable to managers and operators, as well as the concession fees payable 2019, regardless of any future modifications of the lease term, and with regard only to existing lease contracts, is a decrease in the range to the ADM of 1.2-3.2 million in the Groups net profit Revenues from online gaming games of skill casino bingo are recognised less the winnings, jackpots and The Group expects a change in principal financial ratios such as: an increase in the leverage ratio, a decrease in the interest coverage ratio flat-rate gaming tax but inclusive of the cost of the platform and concession fees and a decrease in the current ratio The wagers related to the acceptance of fixed quota and reference bets or bets for which the Group bears Basis of consolidation a risk deriving from winnings are recognised net of costs for the single tax, the ex ASSI withholding, winnings Where the Company has control over an investee it is classified as a subsidiary.
The Company controls an investee if all three of the following and refunds paid to bettors elements are present: power over the investee: exposure to variable returns from the investee: and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns.
Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these The revenues from accepting totalisator bets, on the other hand, are recognised on the basis of the percentage elements of control.
of the premium established by the agreement for the year in which the bets are placed The consolidated financial information presents the results of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group as if they formed a single entity.
Revenues and costs related to bets are recognised at the time of the event for which the bet is accepted Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the acquisition method.
In the balance sheet, the Based on the services provided by the Group, excluding certain rebates provided to customers in the financial division, no return, refund and other acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The results of similar obligations exist.
Moreover, no warranties and related obligations exist.
acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases.
138 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont.
Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Distribution costs Put call options Distribution costs represent the direct costs of the function of providing services to customers, costs of the development function, advertising costs Where a put call option is entered into over the non-controlling interest the ownership risks and rewards of the shares relating to the option and indirect taxes.
are analysed to determine whether the equity is attributable to the non-controlling interest or the parent.
The non-controlling interest is recognised if the risks and rewards of ownership of those shares remain with them.
Share-based payments Certain employees participate in the Groups share option plans which commenced with effect from 1 December 2005.
The fair value of the equity A financial liability is recorded to reflect the option.
All subsequent changes to the liability other than the cash settlement are recognised in profit or loss.
settled options granted is charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and the credit is taken to equity, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is determined by the Black-Scholes and Where the significant risks and rewards of ownership remain with the non-controlling interest the non-controlling interest continues to be Binomial valuation model.
The share options plan does not have any performance conditions other than continued service.
Where equity settled recognised and is allocated its share of profits and losses.
share options are settled in cash at the Groups discretion the debit is taken to equity.
Where the significant risks and rewards of ownership reside with the controlling interest, the financial liability recognised offsets the The Group has also granted awards to be distributed from the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
The fair value of these awards is based on the non-controlling interest.
market price at the date of the grant: some of the grants have performance conditions.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Income taxes and deferred taxation Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recognised at cost less, if any, provision for impairment.
Provision for income taxes is calculated in accordance with the tax legislations and applicable tax rates in force at the balance sheet date in the countries in which the Group companies are tax registered and for Group branches based on the place where the branch is established.
Intangible assets Externally acquired intangible assets Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet differs Externally acquired intangible assets are recognised at cost and subsequently amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
from its tax base, except for differences arising on: Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal the initial recognition of goodwill rights.
The amounts described to such intangible assets are arrived at by using appropriate valuation techniques.
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither Internally generated intangible assets development costs accounting or taxable profit Expenditure on internally developed products is capitalised if it can be demonstrated that: investments in subsidiaries and joint arrangements where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is it is technically feasible to develop the product for it to be sold probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future adequate resources are available to complete and sell the product Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the the Group is able to sell the product difference can be utilised.
sale of the product will generate future economic benefits The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are settled recovered.
expenditure on the project can be measured reliably Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the Amortisation is calculated at annual rates estimated to write off the costs of the assets over their expected useful lives and is charged to operating deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either: expenses from the point the asset is brought into use.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose, which are consistent with those of the previous years, are: the same taxable Group company % different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled Domain names Nil or recovered Internally generated capitalised development costs 20-33 Dividends Technology IP 13-33 Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when declared by the Customer lists In line with projected cash flows or 7-20 Directors.
In case of final dividend, this is when approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
Affiliate contracts 5-12.5 Patents and licences 10-33 or over the period of the licence Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are initially recognised at cost.
Carrying amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date for impairment.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
Management believes that the useful life of the domain names and certain trading licences is indefinite.
These assets are reviewed for impairment annually.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose, which are consistent with those of the previous years, are: Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from the asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure, including that incurred in order to maintain an intangible assets current level of performance, % is expensed as incurred.
Computers and gaming machines 20-33 Goodwill Office furniture and equipment 7-33 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities Freehold and leasehold buildings and improvements 3-20, or over the length of the lease and contingent liabilities acquired.
Motor vehicles 15 Cost comprises the fair value of assets given, and liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued plus the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquire plus, if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquire.
Contingent Land is not depreciated.
consideration is included in the cost as its acquisition date fair value and, in case of contingent consideration classified as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through profit or loss.
For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, direct costs of acquisition Subsequent expenditures are included in the asset carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable are recognised immediately as an expense.
that future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Changes in the estimated value of contingent consideration arising on business combinations completed by this date were treated as an adjustment to cost and, in consequence, resulted in a change in the carrying value of goodwill.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount and are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
140 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont.
Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Impairment of non-financial assets Financial assets Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually at the financial year end.
i Classification Other non-financial assets are subject to annual impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount From 1 January 2018, the Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories: may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount i. e. the higher of value in use and fair value less those to be measured subsequently at fair value either through OCI or through profit or loss costs to sell, the asset is written down accordingly.
those to be measured at amortised cost Where it is not possible to establish the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the smallest group of assets to which it belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, its cash-generating units CGU.
Goodwill is allocated on initial The classification depends on the Groups business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
recognition to each of the Groups CGU that are expected to benefit from a business combination giving rise to the goodwill.
For assets measured at fair value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit or loss or OCI.
For investments in equity instruments that are Impairment charges are included in the administrative expenses line item in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except to the not held for trading, this will depend on whether the Group has made an irrecoverable election at the time of initial recognition to account for the extent they reverse gains previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss recognised for equity investment at fair value through other comprehensive income.
ii Recognition and derecognition Associates and structured agreements Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Where the Group has the power to participate in but not control the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is classified as an Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the associate or structured agreements, as appropriate.
Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Subsequently Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
associates are accounted for using the equity method, where the Groups share of post-acquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive iii Measurement income is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income except for losses in excess of the Groups At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss investment in the associate unless there is an obligation to make good those losses.
FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVTPL Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors interests are expenses in profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at FVTPL are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The investors share in the associates profits and losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value Financial assets measured at amortised cost arise principally through the provision of services to customers e. g. trade receivables, but also of the associate.
incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired to their acquisition or issue and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the associate.
Where there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate has been Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
They are impaired the carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets.
generally due for settlement within 365 days and therefore are all classified as current.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount Joint arrangements of consideration that is unconditional.
The Group holds the trade receivables with the objective to collect the contractual cash flows and therefore The Group is a party to a joint arrangement when there is a contractual arrangement that confers joint control over the relevant activities of the measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
arrangement to the Group and at least one other party.
Joint control is assessed under the same principles as control over subsidiaries.
Due to the short-term nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be the same as their fair value.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either: Other receivables consist of amounts generally arising from transactions outside the usual operating activities of the Group such as the proceeds Joint ventures where the Group has rights to only the net assets of the joint arrangement from disposal of investment.
Due to the short-term nature of the other current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be the same as their fair value.
For the majority of the non-current receivables, the fair values are also not significantly different to their carrying amounts.
Joint operations where the Group has rights to both the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement iv Impairment For trade receivables the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised In assessing the classification of interests in joint arrangements, the Group considers: from initial recognition of the receivables.
The structure of the joint arrangement v Accounting policies applied until 31 December 2017 The legal form of joint arrangements structured through a separate vehicle The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, but has elected not to restate comparative information.
As a result, the comparative information provided continues to be accounted for in accordance with the Groups previous accounting policy.
The contractual terms of the joint arrangement agreement Until 31 December 2017, the Group classified its financial assets in the following categories: Any other facts and circumstances including any other contractual arrangements Loans and receivables The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures in the same manner as investments in associates i. e. using the equity method refer above.
Available for sale financial assets Any premium paid for an investment in a joint venture above the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the investment in joint venture.
Where there is objective evidence that the Loans and receivables until 31 December 2017 investment in a joint venture has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other nonThese assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise principally financial assets.
through the provision of services to customers e. g. trade receivables, but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to their acquisition or issue and are subsequently carried at The Group accounts for its interests in joint operations by recognising its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in accordance with its amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
contractually conferred rights and obligations.
The Groups receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and loans to customers in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables which principally represent amounts due from licensees are carried at original invoice value less an estimate made for bad and doubtful debts based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the year end.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Where cash is on deposit with maturity dates greater than three months, it is disclosed within other receivables.
Loans to customers are in respect of formal loan agreements entered into between the Group and its customers, which are carried at original advanced value less provision for impairment or fair value on inception, if different.
They are classified between current and non-current assets in accordance with the contractual repayment terms of each loan agreement.
