142 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont.
Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Financial assets continued Provisions Available-for-sale financial assets until 31 December 2017 Provisions, which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events, Non-derivative financial assets classified as available-for-sale comprise the Groups strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, if it is probable that an outflow of funds will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
associates or jointly controlled entities.
They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value generally recognised in other comprehensive Leased assets income and accumulated in the available for sale reserve.
In accordance with IAS 39, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the Group an operating lease, the total rentals available-for-sale financial asset is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Purchases and sales of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
settlement date being recognised in the available-for-sale reserve.
On sale, the amount held in the available-for-sale reserve associated with that Non-controlling interests asset is removed from equity and recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Non-controlling interest is recognised at the present ownership instruments proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquirees Financial liabilities identifiable net assets.
The total comprehensive income of non-wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and to the nonTrade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests.
Adjusted results Several of the Groups licensees participate in progressive jackpot games.
Each time a progressive jackpot game is played, a preset amount is The Directors believe that in order to best represent the trading performance and results of the Group, the reported numbers should exclude added to a cumulative jackpot for that specific game.
The accrual for the jackpot at the consolidated balance sheet date is included in progressive certain non-cash and one-off items including the below.
jackpot and other operators jackpot liabilities.
Management regularly uses the adjusted financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate the business and make operating The Groups liability in connection with client funds includes customer deposits offset by the fair value of open positions, the movement on which decisions.
These adjusted measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods.
Furthermore, is recognised through profit or loss.
Such open positions are classified as short-term financial derivatives in the balance sheet.
Where customers compensation of the executives is based in part on the performance of the business based on these adjusted measures.
trading positions are hedged, or partly hedged, for risk management purposes, the fair value of those open hedge positions are carried at fair Accordingly, these are the key performance metrics used by the Board when assessing the Groups financial performance.
Such exclusions include: market value in trade receivables or trade payables depending on whether the positions are in or out of the money and classified as short-term financial derivatives in the balance sheet.
Material non-cash items, e. g. amortisation of intangibles on acquisition, change in fair value of equity investments in the income statement and Employee Share Option Plan expenses.
Management regularly monitors the operating cash conversion to adjusted EBITDA.
These items are Liability components of convertible loan notes are measured as described further below.
excluded to better analyse the underlying cash transactions of the business Loans and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of the instrument.
Material one-off items, e. g. gain on sale of investment in associates, professional services cost related to acquisitions and other exceptional Such interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any projects.
In the last few years the Group has acquired new businesses on a regular basis: however, the costs incurred due to these acquisitions interest expense over the period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the consolidated balance sheet.
are not considered to be an ongoing trading cost and usually cannot be changed or influenced by management Interest expense in this context includes initial transaction costs and premia payable on redemption, as well as any interest or coupon payable while the liability is outstanding.
Underlying adjusted results excludes the following items in order to present a more accurate like for like comparison over the comparable period: Fair value measurement hierarchy The impact of acquisitions made in the period or in the comparable period IFRS 7 and IFRS 13 requires certain disclosure which require the classification of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value using Specific material agreements, adjustments to previous years or currency fluctuations affecting the results in the period and the a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the fair value measurement see Note 30.
The fair value hierarchy comparable period has the following levels: As these are non-GAAP measures, they should not be considered as replacements for IFRS measures.
The Groups definition of these a Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
A full reconciliation of b Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly adjustments is included in Note 6. i. e. derived from prices Level 2 : and Note 3 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements c Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3.
The Group makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the financial asset or financial liability is categorised is determined on the basis of the lowest experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety into only one actual experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical Judgments that may of the three levels.
The Group measures its equity investments at fair value refer to Note 15 for more detailed information in respect of the potentially have a significant impact on the Groups earnings and financial position are detailed below.
Judgements Share capital Structured agreements Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are stated at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
For all arrangements structured in separate vehicles, the Group must assess the substance of the arrangement in determining whether it meets the definition to be classified as an associate or joint venture.
Factors the Group must consider include: Employee Benefit Trust Consideration paid received for the purchase sale of shares subsequently put in the Employee Benefit Trust is recognised directly in equity.
Structure The cost of treasury shares held is presented as a separate reserve the Employee Benefit Trust reserve.
Any excess of the consideration Legal form received on the sale of treasury shares over the weighted average cost of the shares sold is credited to retained earnings.
Contractual agreement Convertible bond The proceeds received on issue of the Groups convertible bond are allocated into their liability and equity components.
The amount Other facts and circumstances initially attributed to the debt component equals the discounted cash flows using a market rate of interest that would be payable on a similar debt instrument that does not include an option to convert.
Subsequently, the debt component is accounted for as a financial liability measured Upon consideration of these factors, the Group has determined that all of its arrangements structured through separate vehicles give it significant at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bond, where the option meets the definition of an equity instrument.
influence but not joint control rights to the net assets and are therefore classified as associates.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option and is recognised in the Convertible bond option reserve within Provision for loss from onerous contracts shareholders equity.
Management considers the requirement for a creation of the provision from a loss-making contract by forecasting the cash flow outcomes in the Long-term liabilities remaining period of the contract.
The assessment of the cash flow outcomes includes the probability of future changes in commercial terms and Long-term liabilities are those liabilities that are due for repayment or settlement in more than 12 months from balance sheet date.
the steps taken to mitigate the issues encountered with the contract.
