134 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 General Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies continued Playtech plc the Company is a company domiciled in the Isle of Man IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 has replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has had a significant effect on the Group in the Playtech and its subsidiaries the Group develop unified software platforms for the online and land-based gambling industry, targeting online and land-based operators.
Playtechs gaming applications online casino, poker and other P2P games, bingo, mobile, live gaming, land-based following areas: kiosk networks, land-based terminal and fixed-odds games are fully inter-compatible and can be freely incorporated as stand-alone applications, Equity investments classified as available for sale financial assets under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement have been accessed and funded by the operators players through the same user account and managed by the operator by means of a single, powerful classified as being at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss FVTPL, unless an irrevocable election is made on the equity investment under IFRS 9. management interface.
Since June 2018, through the acquisition of Snaitech, Playtech directly owns and operates the leading sports betting and All fair value gains in respect of those assets are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and accumulated in retained earnings.
gaming brand in online and retail in Italy, Snai.
Any balance in the equity investment reserve relating to investments now treated as FVTPL on transition has been moved to retained earnings.
The Groups financial trading division has four primary business models, being: Previously, under IAS 39, impairments of such assets were recognised in profit or loss, and gains and losses accumulated in reserves were recycled to profit or loss on disposal.
B2C retail contracts for difference CFD, through www.
com where the Group acts as the execution venue and the market-maker The impairment provision on financial assets measured at amortised cost such as trade and other receivables have been calculated in on a variety of instruments which fall under the general categories of foreign exchanges, commodities, equities and indices accordance with IFRS 9s expected credit loss model, which differs from the incurred loss model previously required by IAS 39.
The Group has B2B clearing and execution services for other retail brokers and professional clients, through CFH, where the Group acts as a matched-principal chosen not to restate comparatives on adoption of IFRS 9 and, therefore, both of these changes have been processed at the date of initial liquidity provider and straight through processes STPs the trades to prime brokers and clearing houses such as BNP, Jeffries, UBS, Citi etc application i. e. 1 January 2018, and presented in the statement of changes in equity.
The change to an expected credit losses model as required under IFRS 9 has had an immaterial impact on the Group.
B2B clearing and execution for other retail brokers, where the Group acts as the execution venue and market-maker As allowed by the transitional rules in IFRS 9, prior year financial statements have not been restated and, in any event, no material changes in the B2B technology and risk management services, where the Group provides platform, CRM, reporting and risk-management technology to the retail numbers recognised were required.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has though resulted in presentational changes as described above.
broker market On the date of initial application, 1 January 2018, the financial instruments of the Group were as follows, with any reclassifications noted: Where the Group acts as the execution venue, or provides execution services, these activities are undertaken in entities regulated by the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Australian Securities & Investments Commission ASIC, the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission Measurement category Carrying amount CySEC, the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission FSC, and the South African Financial Sector Conduct Authority FSCA.
Original New Difference Original IAS 39 New IFRS 9 000 000 000 Basis of preparation The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is Non-current financial assets therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Despite the net current liability position at the year Equity securities Available for sale FVTPL 381,346 381,346 end and the potential repayment of the convertible bond in November 2019: the Groups corporate planning processes include completion of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business plan and a rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
During Current financial assets the year, additional business plans and financial projections were prepared to specifically consider the acquisition of Snaitech and issuance of Trade receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 107,165 107,165 a longterm debt issuance, and its impact on the Groups future performance and funding requirements.
The Group has also obtained a three year revolving credit facility in 2018 of 272 million.
The Directors continuously assess the long-term viability of the Playtech Group as part of Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 93,322 93,322 their ongoing monitoring of the Company.
Refer to going concern, viability, responsibilities and disclosure in the Directors Report.
Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost Amortised cost 583,957 583,957 Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies Non-current liabilities The significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of the financial information, on a consistent basis, are: Bonds Amortised cost Amortised cost 276,638 276,638 Accounting principles Contingent consideration and redemption liability FVTPL FVTPL 137,080 137,080 This financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting standards and interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union Current liabilities adopted IFRSs.
In the current year the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and Loans and borrowings Amortised cost Amortised cost 200,000 200,000 the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as they have been adopted by the European Union, that are Contingent consideration and redemption liability FVTPL FVTPL 20,592 20,592 relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2018. a New standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers New standards impacting the Group that have been adopted in the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
Under IFRS 15, revenue and which have given rise to changes in the Groups accounting policies are: is recognised when a customer obtains control of the goods or services.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Determining the timing of the transfer of control at a point in time or over time requires judgement.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 the cumulative effect method without practical expedients, with the effect of initially applying this standard recognised at the date of initial application i. e. 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 has not been restated i. e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18, IAS 11 and related interpretations.
Additionally, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 have not generally been applied to comparative information.
Due to the nature of the revenue of the Group and the low number of fixed revenue contracts in existence, the transition to IFRS 15, net of tax, on retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is not material.
Hence, the impacts of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 and its statement of profit or loss and OCI for the year then ended is also not material.
IFRS 15 did not have a significant impact on the Groups accounting policies with respect to other revenue streams.
For the description of the principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments.
For more detailed information about reportable segments, see Notes 4 and 5.
