144 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont.
Note 3 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued Note 3 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued Judgements continued Estimates and assumptions continued Revenue from contracts with customers Deferred tax assets Parts of gambling activities may be physically located in casinos or in public venues e. g. bingo and others may be played online.
In some Deferred tax assets are recognised with respect to the tax losses carryovers and other significant temporary differences, to the extent that there is cases, wagers may be handled through bookmakers or be sold through retail outlets e. g. scratch cards or lottery tickets.
Depending on the likely to be sufficient future taxable income against which such losses and temporary differences may be deducted in future periods.
Directors are fact pattern, players might place a wager against the operator the house, against other players, or both.
In some jurisdictions, the operation of required to make significant discretionary evaluation to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that may be recognised.
The Directors need gambling activities is subject to a number of regulations and sometimes these regulations prescribe a percentage of all amounts wagered that to estimate the probable temporary effect and the amount of the future taxable income, as well as the planning strategy for future taxes.
More must be awarded as prizes to winners.
However, in other jurisdictions, the regulations do not prescribe a fixed percentage that must be awarded details are included in Note 26. to winner s and in such situations, the percentage could be left to the operators discretion or predefined as game rules, which are known to Determination of fair value of intangible and tangible assets acquired on business combinations the players in advance.
Therefore, the presentation of revenue depends on the nature of the gambling activity.
When the gambling contract The fair value of the intangible assets acquired is based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use of the asset.
Further or instrument meets the definition of a derivative, it is accounted for as a financial instrument in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: information in relation to the determination of fair value of intangible assets acquired is given in Notes 29 and 30.
The fair value of the tangible Recognition and Measurement.
When the gambling contract or instrument does not meet the definition of a derivative, the operator assesses assets acquired on business combinations was determined through the methods of value in use and market value as determined by an external, whether it acts as a principal or an agent.
When the operator acts as an agent, only the net amount is presented as revenue net of win and taxes.
Further information in relation to the determination of fair value of tangible assets acquired is given in Note 29D.
If it is deemed that the operator is acting as a principal, revenue is recognised gross at the amount collected from players, with prizes awarded to winners classified as an expense.
Even if the operator receives the cash flows net, an entity that is deemed to be the principal presents revenue Determination of the fair value of contingent consideration and redemption liability on a gross basis.
The fair value of contingent consideration and redemption liability is based on the probability of expected cash flow outcomes and the assessment of present values using appropriate discount rates.
Recognition of put call options over non-controlling interest is based on consideration of the Internally generated intangible assets ownership risks and rewards of the shares relating to the option to determine whether the equity is attributable to the non-controlling interest or Expenditure on internally developed products is capitalised based on the below: the parent.
The fair value is based on the probability of expected cash flow outcomes based on managements best estimates and discount rates adequate resources are available to complete and sell the product applied.
Further information in relation to the determination of the fair value of contingent consideration is given in Notes 23, 29 and 30. the Group is able to sell the product Impairment of financial assets Loss allowances for financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The Group uses judgement in making sale of the product will generate future economic benefits these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculations based on the Groups past history, existing market conditions as well as forward-looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
The Groups exposure to various risks associated with the financial instruments expenditure on the project can be measured reliably is discussed in Note 33.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each class of financial Upon consideration of these factors, the Group capitalises these expenditure under intangible assets assets mentioned in Note 33.
Income taxes Provision for risks and charges and potential liabilities The Group is subject to corporate income tax in jurisdictions in which its companies are incorporated and registered.
Judgement is required The Group ascertains a liability in the presence of legal disputes or lawsuits underway when it believes it is probable that a financial outlay will to interpret international tax laws relating to e-commerce in order to identify and value provisions in relation to corporate income taxes.
The take place and when the amount of the losses which derive therefrom can be reasonably estimated.
The Group is subject to lawsuits regarding principal risks relating to the Groups tax liabilities, and the sustainability of the underlying effective tax rate, arise from domestic and international complex legal problems, which are subject to a differing degree of uncertainty also due to a complex legislative framework, including the facts tax laws and practices in the e-commerce environment continuing to evolve, including the corporate tax rates in jurisdictions where the Group and the circumstances inherent to each case, the jurisdiction and the different laws applicable.
Given the uncertainties inherent to these problems, has significant assets or people presence.
The Group is basing its tax provisions on current and enacted but not yet implemented tax rules it is difficult to predict with certainty the outlay which will derive from these disputes and it is therefore possible that the value of the provisions for and practices, together with advice received from professional advisers, and believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open legal proceedings and disputes may vary depending on future developments in the proceedings underway.
The Group monitors the status of the enquiry years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law.
The Group constantly monitors disputes underway and consults with its legal advisers and experts on legal and tax-related matters.
changes in legislation and update its accruals accordingly.
More details are included in Note 9.
Note 4 Segment Information Regulatory The Groups reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services.
The Groups subsidiaries, Safecap Investments Limited, Magnasale Trading Limited, CFH Clearing Limited, TradeTech Alpha Limited, TradeTech Markets Australia Pty Limited, TradeTech Markets BVI Limited, and TradeTech Markets South Africa Pty Limited are regulated by the Financial Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief Conduct Authority, Australian Securities & Investments Commission, Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Services operating decision-maker has been identified as the management team including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Commission, or the Financial Sector Conduct Authority.
The regulatory environment is regularly changing and imposes significant demands on the resources of the subsidiaries.
As the subsidiaries activities expand, offering new products and penetrating new markets, these regulatory The operating segments identified are: demands will inevitably increase.
The increasing complexity of the Groups operations require training and recruitment be tailored to meet these Gaming B2B: including Casino, Services, Sport, Bingo, Poker and Other regulatory demands and the costs of compliance are expected to increase.
Gaming B2C: Snaitech, Sun Bingo and Casual & Other B2C In addition to the above, the regulated subsidiaries manage their capital resources on the basis of capital adequacy requirements as prescribed by each of the regulators, together with their own assessments of other business risks and sensitivities which may impact the business.
Capital Financial: including B2C and B2B CFD adequacy requirements are monitored on a real-time basis, including a buffer which is deemed sufficient by management to ensure that capital The Group-wide profit measures are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted net profit see Note 6.
Management believes the adjusted profit measures requirements are not breached at any time.
represent more closely the underlying trading performance of the business.
No other differences exist between the basis of preparation of the Estimates and assumptions performance measures used by management and the figures in the Group financial information.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles In 2017, following the growth in the business to customer B2C segment and due to the fundamental difference in its margin profiles, The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill, intangible assets not yet in use and indefinite life assets have suffered any the Group changed the internal and external reporting and split out from the gaming segment the B2C element.
The Group is required to test other intangibles if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future There is no allocation of operating expenses, profit measures, assets and liabilities to individual products within the gaming segments, cash flows and the choice of a discount rate in order to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
Such estimates are based on managements as allocation would be arbitrary.
experience of the business, but actual outcomes may vary.
More details including carrying values are included in Note 13.
