OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors are responsible for keeping DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT the Annual Report and the Groups adequate accounting records that are We confirm that to the best of our consolidated financial statements in sufficient to show and explain the Groups knowledge: accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable regulations.
accuracy at any time the financial position } the Groups consolidated financial of the Group and enable them to ensure statements, prepared in accordance UK company law requires the Directors that the Groups consolidated financial with IFRSs as adopted by the European to prepare financial statements for each statements comply with the Companies Act Union, give a true and fair view of financial year.
Under that law the Directors 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the assets, liabilities, financial position are required to prepare the Groups They are also responsible for safeguarding and profit or loss of the Company consolidated financial statements in the assets of the Group and hence for taking and the undertakings included in the accordance with International Financial reasonable steps for the prevention and consolidation taken as a whole: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by detection of fraud and other irregularities. }
the Strategic Report and the Directors the European Union.
Report include a fair review of the The Directors are also responsible for development and performance of Under company law the Directors must not preparing the Directors Report, the Strategic the business and the position of approve the Groups financial statements Report, the Remuneration Report and the Company and the undertakings unless they are satisfied that they give a true the Corporate Governance Statement in included in the consolidation taken as and fair view of the state of affairs of the accordance with the Companies Act 2006 a whole, together with a description of Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and applicable regulations, including the the principal risks and uncertainties that for that period.
requirements of the Listing Rules and the they face: and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In preparing the Groups consolidated } the Annual Report and Accounts, financial statements, the Directors are The Directors are responsible for the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced required to: maintenance and integrity of the corporate and understandable and provides and financial information included on the the information necessary for } present fairly the financial position, Companys website.
Legislation in the UK shareholders to assess the Groups financial performance and cash flows of governing the preparation and dissemination position and performance, business the Group: of financial statements may differ from model and strategy. }
select suitable accounting policies in legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Martin Payne Estimates and Errors, and then apply Chief Executive Officer them consistently: 19 March 2019 } present information, including Paul James accounting policies, in a manner that Chief Financial Officer provides relevant, reliable, comparable 19 March 2019 and understandable information: } make judgements that are reasonable: } provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and } state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 79 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CASE STUDY Location: Client: Rutter Johnson, EPG Churchdown Surgery Application: Stormwater attenuation Consulting Engineer Product: Permavoid, Polystorm, Permavoid Biomat and Permaceptor The Project In addition, 200 Polystorm PSM1a crates were used in soft Polypipe bolsters flood defences at new 2.7m 3 landscaped areas, which provided a further 40m of water storage.
Both Polystorm attenuation tanks installed beneath the landscaped Polypipe supplied its Polystorm and Permavoid geocellular water areas surrounding the car park were wrapped in a fully welded management systems to protect a new 2.7m medical centre from impermeable geomembrane.
Both systems are designed to cope flash floods.
with and manage sudden heavy rainfall, which has affected the region in the past decade.
The 1,191sqm Churchdown Surgery in Churchdown, Gloucestershire, can serve 20,000 patients, with consulting rooms, To treat oil and capture silt, 35m of Permachannel, Permavoid nurse treatment areas, training rooms and a large car park.
Polypipe, Biomat and four Permaceptor separators were used to channel consulting engineering firm EPG and civil engineer NGB Cheltenham the collected stormwater away from the site and into local water had to deal with a water table that left only 130mm of cover in large networks.
hard landscaped areas, which meant a shallow attenuation system Following consultation with EPG and NGB, Polypipe delivered a was required.
customised Permaceptor much larger than its standard model.
Building on the initial design by the contract engineer Rutter Each modified Permaceptor can treat a larger catchment area over Johnson, a mixed product solution was supplied by Polypipe that 150sqm and was installed to reduce the amount of Permachannel included a Permavoid system for use beneath a large permeable and Permavoid Biomat cells needed within two isolated permeable paving car park and two Polystorm tanks utilising anti-oatation car park areas separated from the Permavoid tank.
As well as this, measures in soft landscape areas.
the main Permavoid tank beneath the car park area had a fully welded membrane to the base and sides.
Due to the high water table, a 150mm deep system using 2,614 3 Permavoid cells delivered 138m of stormwater storage beneath the hard landscaping surface.
Permavoid was also selected due to its high structural load capacity.
This project provided objectives that we knew Polypipe could deliver upon.
With only 130mm cover on the car park we chose to use Permavoid beneath the car parking bays because of its load-bearing capability, and the ability of the system to negotiate the high water table on the site.
By working with Polypipes technical experts, we were able to design a system that could be considered good practice by the SuDS manual, local and national planning documents.
Phil Williams, consultant engineer at EPG 80 OUR REMUNERATION Contents ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 82 REMUNERATION POLICY 84 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 94 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 95 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 T AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 81 POL POLYPIPE GROUP PLC YPIPE GROUP PLC
