Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 77 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE are also responsible for preparing a Strategic FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that The Directors are responsible for preparing the complies with that law and those regulations.
Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Company law requires the directors to prepare information included on the Companys website.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and that law they are required to prepare the financial dissemination of financial statements may differ statements in accordance with International from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL Under company law the directors must not approve FINANCIAL REPORT the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: affairs of the Company and of its profit or loss for the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, with the applicable set of accounting standards, the directors are required to: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial position and profit or loss of the Company: them consistently: and make judgements and estimates that are the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the reasonable and prudent: development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer, together with a state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, description of the principal risks and uncertainties subject to any material departures disclosed and that they face.
explained in the financial statements: assess the Companys ability to continue as a going We consider the Annual Report and Financial concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced to going concern: and andunderstandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys use the going concern basis of accounting unless position and performance, business model they either intend to liquidate the Company or to andstrategy.
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Sarah Bates accounting records that are sufficient to show and Chair explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 17 July 2018 position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
