e r 2 u. t D u e f l i e v h e t r i g n n g i r g u r c o e w S t. h 3 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Our strategy See how we link our remuneration to performance KEY GOALS REMUNERATION REPORT PAY SIGNIFICANT AND SUSTAINABLE DIVIDENDS THROUGH THE CYCLE Page 111 and 122 CONTINUE TO GROW OUR BUSINESS WITHOUT DILUTING ITS QUALITY Ensure robust operating and financial Build and advance long-term performance at existing mines growth pipeline Focus on full-capacity utilisation and robust cost performance of our operating mines by driving While delivering free cash flow, we want to secure high-quality sources of long-term growth through our own continued operating improvement.
Continuously extend their life-of-mine by investing in near-mine exploration.
We are actively looking at targets within the politically stable Former Soviet This will allow us to generate free cash flow and translate it into significant dividends Union where we can create value with our core competencies.
Performance in 2018 Targets for 2019 Performance in 2018 Targets for 2019 1.56 Moz GE produced in 2018, up 1.55 Moz GE production Consolidation of 100% interest Nezhda: construction of the 9% year-on-year and above original Operational improvement, including from digital technologies at Voro, in Nezhda concentrator building guidance Albazino, Omolon and Mayskoye Completion of the feasibility study POX-2: contracts for all major equipment, Adjusted EBITDA of $780 million, up TCC of $600650 oz, 7% lower compared to 2018 due to at Nezhda, more than doubling the including the autoclave, the oxygen plant, 5% compared with 2017, driven by impact of Kyzyl reserves to 4.4 Moz and the water treatment facility higher production volumes and stable Continuing exploration efforts and reserves replacement Acquisition of 100% ownership in Advancing Prognoz and Viksha: additional cost performance through near-mine exploration campaigns Prognoz, with an initial silver equivalent drilling, detailed metallurgical testing, and Free cash flow of $176 million resource estimate of 256 Moz permitting activities Excellent exploration results at existing Feasibility study and Board approval for Risks mines, notably Mayskoye, with a sizeable the POX-2 project Production risk Risks increase in reserves of 15% Tax risk Exploration risk Disposal of high-cost short-lived Market risk Construction and development risks operations Kapan and Okhotsk Currency risk Market risk Liquidity risk Interest rate risk Deliver medium-term growth through Maintain high standards of corporate governance ramping up Kyzyl and sustainable development The Kyzyl project is a major medium-term growth driver for Polymetal, with an Maintaining high standards of corporate governance and sustainable development average annual production of 300 Koz.
We are expecting Kyzyl to deliver its first full gives us a license to operate and the much-needed trust of all stakeholders.
Health year low-cost production in 2019. and safety at our operations is a key priority.
Performance in 2018 Targets for 2019 Performance in 2018 Targets for 2019 The first full-year of production at Kyzyl Kyzyl: Full compliance with the provisions of the Ultimate goal of zero fatalities at Construction of the 2nd stage Successful launch in June 2018, UK Corporate Governance Code all operations of tailing dam ahead of schedule and within budget The first Russian company to join the Implementation of climate Further exploration of identified ore bodies Delivering 96 Koz of payable production Dow Jones Sustainability Index management system and upgrade in reserves in 2018, a beat on the original guidance Leader in the metals sector Continued compliance with global and of 80 Koz by Sustainalytics local best practices Offtake agreements in place for all Risks The highest score for Anti-Corruption, concentrate production for 2019 Market risk Corporate Governance, Risk Risks Production risk Management and Labour Standards by Health and safety risk Amursk: Exploration risk FTSE4Good Environmental risk Successful completion of One fatality at our mines Legal risk debottlenecking project with all new Appointment of three new independent Political risk sections now operating at full capacity non-executive Directors Processing of low-carbon Kyzyl concentrate with design recovery of 96% 24 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 25 4. e G c o n v a e r m n r a o n f r c e e p a t n s d u b s o u R s t. a 1 i n a b i l i t y STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Capital allocation Our prime responsibility is to build long-term value per share.
Adherence to strong capital discipline is the foundation of our strategy.
Our prime responsibility is to build long-term value per share.
Adherence to strong capital discipline is the foundation of Polymetal has been very consistent with its strategy of At the end of each financial year, the Board considers Regular dividend is our strategy: in careful project selection with a preference prioritising dividends in the capital allocation process.
the payment of a special dividend, based, among other for high-grade and : in value-accretive a shareholders right From free cash flow for 20122018 totalling $1.45 billion, factors, on the Companys available free cash flow post acquisitions, in significant investments in brownfield and Polymetal returned $1.41 billion by paying out regular regular dividends, the Companys leverage, market We believe that a regular dividend is a shareholders greenfield exploration: as well as in rigid cost control.
dividends in each year since the IPO and significant special outlook, forward-looking financial projections and right and comes before growth spending.
dividends in four years out of six.
This represents an growth opportunities.
This strategy helps Polymetal to combine a high return on average of 156 Dollars per each ounce of gold produced investment with strong growth while generating a sizeable and provides tangible returns to shareholders with a sectorWe believe that a regular payout, combined with a amount of free cash flow.
leading dividend yield of 4% over the five-year period and firm leverage ceiling, represents a predictable and 5% in 2018. transparent capital structure.
In line with the policy, the Board proposed a final dividend of 50% of second-half We have a strong commitment to substantial and underlying earnings, equal to $0.31 per share, bringing sustainable regular dividends with a well-established the total dividends proposed for the 2018 full year to Capital allocation principles dividend policy of paying 50% of underlying net earnings $0.48 per share.
net earnings adjusted for non-cash foreign gains losses Our capital allocation principles are clearly prioritised.
and impairment charges each half year, subject to a hard ceiling of a Net debt Adjusted EBITDA ratio below 2.5x.
1 Net debt as at 31 December 2018 was $1.52 billion, Our decision to improve the balance sheet will be Target Net debt EBITDA of 1.5x resulting in a Net debt Adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.95x supported mainly by further production growth driven 2017: 1.91x.
The Company continued to generate by the first full year of operation at full design capacity at Our near-term objective is to reduce net debt Ensure a strong balance sheet.
significant free cash flow that amounted to $176 million Kyzyl in 2019.
In addition, an expected decrease in the to ensure the Groups Net debt Adjusted EBITDA 2 2017: $143 million while maintaining stable net cash cash cost and improved margins will enhance our free ratio is no more than 1.5x.
operating inflow of $513 million 2017: $533 million.
We also aim to streamline our asset portfolio by disposing of some non-core exploration projects and any Deliver meaningful value-accretive growth excess cash will be used to reduce debt.
Our success is a direct outcome of our capital control This will result in the incremental production of High capital expenditure hurdle rate discipline and reflection of our fundamentals: approximately 3035 Koz of gold per year from the Any excess cash will either be invested for 4 same amount of feedstock and will, on average, lower We impose strong capital discipline on all investment profitable growth or considered for additional We have delivered robust returns on capital TCC by $100150 oz per ounce for 500 Koz of annual decisions across the business: returns to shareholders.
17% 3-year ROIC while providing an exceptional growth gold production.
rate in the mining sector, increasing production twofold We apply high IRR hurdle rates 12% real unlevered from 0.7 Moz of GE in 2011 to 1.56 Moz of GE in 2018 at a $1,200 oz gold price.
Our strong preference is with high-grade, lowWe have generated free cash flow in each year since cost and  projects with high our IPO in 2011. development optionality.
We minimise our capital costs by employing a In 2019, Polymetal will start construction of two growth centralised hub-based system that handles ores projects: Nezhda 29% base case IRR and POX-2 14% from different high-grade sources.
Nezhda is a very large 12.4 Moz of We preserve our focus by streamlining high-cost resources and high-grade 4.5 g t asset, which will start and short-lived assets.
contributing to dividends per share by 2022.
POX-2 will fully fide-risk our business model by eliminating dependence on concentrate off-take markets.
26 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 27
