OUR FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2019 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Payne and Paul James.
Polypipe Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture of plastic pipe systems for the building and construction market.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated historical financial information for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied in all material respects to all the periods presented.
2.1 Basis of preparation and statement of compliance with IFRSs The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union regulations as they apply to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 and also in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to one decimal place of a million m unless otherwise indicated.
2.2 Going concern The Directors, having considered all relevant risk factors, believe the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2018.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: } power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : } exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and } the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All inter-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The Group holds 100% of the equity and controls 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiaries, with the exception of Equaflow Ltd, Sustainable Water and Drainage Systems BV, Sustainable Water and Drainage Systems Limited, Tree Ground Solutions BV and Water Management Solutions LLC which has not traded since incorporation in Qatar in 2015.
The treatment of non-controlling interests or any other non-voting right factors in respect of control is not material to the consolidated financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 119 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.4 Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is the total of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition fair value.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administration expenses in the income statement.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
2.5 Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses see Note 2.12.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the profit or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
2.6 Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recognised by the Group entities at their respective functional currency rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
All differences arising on settlement or translation are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing.
The resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss.
2.7 Revenue from contracts with customers and interest income Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods is transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods.
The disclosure of significant accounting judgements and estimates relating to revenue from contracts with customers is provided in Note 3.
1 Sale of goods Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at the point in time when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the goods.
Our most commonly used standard payment terms are 30 days net end of month.
i Performance obligations The Group considers whether there are other undertakings in the sales contract that are separate performance obligations to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated, such as warranties.
In determining the transaction price for the sale of goods, the Group considers the effects of variable consideration, the existence of significant financing components, non-cash consideration and consideration payable to the customer if any.
ii Variable consideration If the consideration in a sales contract includes a variable amount, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods to the customer.
The variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and constrained until it is highly probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the associated uncertainty with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Some sales contracts provide customers with sales volume rebates.
The sales volume rebates give rise to variable consideration.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED iii Sales volume rebates The Group provides retrospective sales volume rebates to certain customers once, amongst other matters, the quantity of goods purchased during a predetermined period exceeds thresholds specified in the sales contract.
To estimate the variable consideration for these expected future rebates, the Group applies the most likely amount method for sales contracts with a single-volume threshold and the expected value method for sales contracts with more than one volume threshold.
The selected method that best predicts the amount of variable consideration is primarily driven by the number of volume thresholds contained in the sales contract.
The Group then applies the requirements on constraining estimates of variable consideration and recognises a refund liability for the expected future rebates.
Sales volume rebate liabilities, both estimated and actual, are netted off against the associated trade receivables.
2 Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues on cash balances using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
2.8 Income taxes Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities based on income tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, with the following exceptions: } where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: } in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and } deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
For deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries it must additionally be probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the income tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on income tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are charged or credited directly to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 121 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.9 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on the cost less residual value of property, plant and equipment, and is on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold land Nil Freehold buildings Over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Plant and other equipment 4 to 10 years The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each financial year end and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any profit or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
2.10 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are initially measured at cost.
Intangible assets arising on business combinations are initially measured at fair value.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost or fair value less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic life and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
Amortisation of intangible assets is provided over the following expected useful lives: Patents and brand names 10 to 15 years Customer relationships 5 to 15 years Licences 10 years Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditures on individual projects are recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: } the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale: } its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset: } how the asset will generate future economic benefits: } the availability of resources to complete the asset: and } the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
At the balance sheet date no development costs have met the above criteria.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.11 Assets classified as held-for-sale Assets classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value, less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification and accordingly included in current assets with the associated liabilities being included in current liabilities, and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there are any indicators that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and it is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculations on detailed budgets and industry forecast calculations which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and industry forecast calculations are generally covering a period of four years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Goodwill Goodwill has specific characteristics for impairment and is tested annually at 31 December or when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related CGUs.
Each CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses related to goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
2.13 Leasing The classification of leases as finance or operating leases requires the Group to determine, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions, whether it retains or acquires the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these assets and accordingly whether the lease requires an asset and liability to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
2.14 Financial instruments initial recognition and subsequent measurement IFRS 9 was adopted on 1 January 2018 with no impact as explained in Note 4.
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 123 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, or fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups business model for managing them.
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component, the Group initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not recognised at FVTPL, transaction costs.
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are measured at the transaction price determined under IFRS 15.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level.
The Groups business model for managing financial assets refers to how it manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.
The business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables.
Subsequent measurement The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification.
The Group does not currently hold any fair value through other comprehensive income financial assets.
Financial assets at amortised cost The Group measures financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: } the financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: and } the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest method and are subject to impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Groups financial assets at amortised cost includes cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and amounts owed by associated undertakings.
Derecognition A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is primarily derecognised when: } the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or } the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership.
When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement.
In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability.
The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
Impairment The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs for all financial assets not held at FVTPL.
ECLs are based on the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest rate.
For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each balance sheet date.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
ii Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at FVTPL, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, contingent consideration, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Profits or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
The only financial liability at FVTPL that is not designated as an effective hedging instrument is the contingent consideration see Note 17.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Profits and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance revenues and finance costs, respectively.
Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts, together with any costs or fees incurred, is recognised in the income statement.
iii Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 125 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.15 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Initial recognition and subsequent measurement The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks, respectively.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: } Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment. }
Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment. }
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which it wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Before 1 January 2018, the documentation included identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instruments fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Beginning 1 January 2018, the documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group will assess whether the hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements including the analysis of sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how the hedge ratio is determined.
A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of the following effectiveness requirements: } There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. }
The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship. }
The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.
Hedges that meet all the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for, as described below: Cash flow hedge Cash flow hedging matches the cash flows of hedged items against the corresponding cash flows of the derivative.
The effective part of any profit or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that financial instrument.
Any ineffective part of any profit or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative profit or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative profit or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
The Group does not currently have any designated fair value hedges or net investment hedges.
Note 29 sets out the details of the fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.16 Fair values The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between the market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: } in the principal market for the asset or liability: or } on the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active markets at the balance sheet date is determined by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs.
For financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques.
Such techniques may include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis: or other valuation models.
An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further details as to how they are measured are provided in Note 29.
2.17 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, as follows: } Raw materials purchase cost on a first in, first out basis. }
Work in progress and finished goods cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
2.18 Cash and short-term deposits Cash and short-term deposits consist of cash at bank and in hand.
2.19 Pensions The Group operates defined contribution pension plans.
Contributions payable in the year are charged to the income statement.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
2.20 Non-underlying items The Group presents discontinued operations, amortisation of intangible assets, profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and non-recurring operating costs, finance costs and tax in respect of acquisitions as non-underlying items on the face of the income statement.
These are items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, the Directors consider merit separate presentation to provide a better and more consistent indication of the Groups underlying financial performance and a more meaningful comparison with prior and future periods to assess trends in financial performance.
The tax effect of the above is also included.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 127 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.21 Share-based payments In the case of equity-settled schemes, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The value of the options is measured using the BlackScholes and Monte Carlo models, taking into account the terms and conditions including market and non-vesting conditions upon which the options were granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or nonvesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
2.22 Cash dividend The Group recognises a liability to pay a dividend when the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Group.
Under UK company law a distribution is authorised when it is approved by the shareholders.
A corresponding amount is then recognised directly in equity.
2.23 Own shares The Group operates an employee benefit trust EBT.
The Group, and or the EBT, holds Polypipe Group plc shares for the granting of Polypipe Group plc shares to employees and Directors.
These shares are recognised at cost and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
No profit or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of these shares.
No dividends are earned on these shares, and they are ignored for the purposes of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
2.24 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Restructuring provisions are recognised only when the Group has a constructive obligation, which is when a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline, and the employees affected have been notified of the plans main features.
Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold or service provided to the customer.
Initial recognition is based on historical experience.
The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised at least annually.
JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgement has the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 3.1 Measurement of intangible assets The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The key judgements involved are the identification of which intangible assets meet the recognition criteria as set out in IAS 38, the fair values attributable to those intangible assets, and the useful lives of individual intangible assets.
The Group has applied judgement in determining whether amounts contingently payable to previous owners of the businesses we have acquired should be recognised as a remuneration cost in the income statement, or within total consideration that is allocated to the fair value of assets and liabilities included in the balance sheet.
The following estimates have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 3.2 Revenue recognition and customer rebates The Groups pricing structure involves rebate arrangements with several of its direct and indirect customers.
These can be complex in nature and involve estimation in determining the required level of provision for rebate liabilities, particularly where the Group is reliant on information from customers which may not be available at the time the liabilities are assessed.
JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED 3.3 Impairment of non-financial assets Non-financial assets include goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group considers whether there are any indicators of impairment of these assets.
Where indicators of impairment are identified, the Group tests the asset for impairment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at 31 December and when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The Groups impairment test for goodwill is based on a value in use calculation.
The value in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model.
The cash flows are derived from the budgets and forecasts for the next four years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the performance of the asset or the cash-generating unit CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow model as well as the expected future cash flows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are further explained in Note 16.
3.4 Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the probable outflow of resources, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Directors assess the likelihood that financial targets will be achieved in order to trigger a contingent liability to the previous owners of the businesses we have acquired, to quantify the possible range of that contingent liability, and to how that contingent liability should be calculated and disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in this process, actual liabilities may be different from those originally estimated.
3.5 Inventory provisioning The Directors make estimates based on experience regarding the level of provisioning required against slow-moving and obsolete items to state inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS Standards which have been adopted in the year IFRS 9, Financial Instruments IFRS 9 addressed the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities, introduced new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The adoption of the new standard on 1 January 2018 had the following impact on the Groups financial assets and liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other receivables: the new rules did not affect the classification and measurement of these financial assets which continued to be recognised at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities: the new rules only affected the accounting for financial liabilities that were designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The only liabilities on adoption designated as FVTPL were the forward foreign currency derivatives see below.
The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and have not been changed.
Interest rate swaps: these continued to qualify as hedges on adoption of IFRS 9.
Forward foreign currency derivatives: these were previously accounted for as held for trading derivatives at FVTPL.
No change was required to the way in which these liabilities were recognised in prior years.
However, the Group has adopted hedge accounting in 2018 for some of these derivatives which are accordingly measured at fair value through other comprehensive income under IFRS 9.
The new impairment model required the recognition of impairment provisions based on forward-looking expected credit losses rather than backward-looking incurred losses previously applied under IAS 39.
This applies to financial assets classified at amortised cost, namely cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
The only financial asset that was impaired and remained impaired under IFRS 9 was trade receivables.
A large proportion of trade receivables are covered by credit insurance.
Accordingly, there was no impact from the change to the loss allowance for trade receivables on adoption of IFRS 9.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 129 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 4.
NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS CONTINUED IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 replaced IAS 18 which covered contracts for goods and services and IAS 11 which covered construction costs.
IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard permitted either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective adoption approach.
We considered variable consideration, specifically in relation to rebates.
The Group accounts for rebates as discussed in Notes 2.7 and 3.2 to the consolidated financial statements and there was no impact of adopting IFRS 15.
In addition, due to the generally short-term nature of the Groups contracts, there was no impact on the timing of recognition of revenue prospectively.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 using the modified retrospective approach which means that the cumulative impact of adoption was recognised in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and the comparatives were not restated.
Standards issued but not yet effective The following listing of standards and interpretations issued are those that the Group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance but which have an effective date after the date of these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has not early adopted them and plans to adopt them from the effective dates adopted by the European Union.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Effective date IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 16, Leases Under IFRS 16 the present distinction between operating and finance leases will be removed, resulting in all leases being recognised on the balance sheet except short-term leases and leases of low-value assets and termed right-of-use assets.
At inception, a right-ofuse asset will be recognised together with an equivalent liability reflecting the discounted lease payments over the estimated term of the lease.
While the overall cost of using the asset over the lease term should be the same, it is likely that the weighting of the charge between periods may differ due to the requirement to distinguish between the lease and non-lease elements of the agreement.
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and is mandatory for annual reporting periods commencing 1 January 2019.
The Group did not apply for early adoption of IFRS 16 and will first report under the new standard in the interim consolidated financial statements for the six months ending 30 June 2019, and the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019.
The Group has reviewed all material leasing arrangements over the last year in light of the new lease accounting rules.
The Group does not have any leases previously classified as finance leases.
The Group will adopt the simplified approach to transition and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
In 2019, the Groups lease commitments will be brought onto the Groups balance sheet and the timing of the recognition of lease costs in the income statement will change.
The value of lease commitments at 31 December 2018 was 14.0m see Note 27.
The Group expects to recognise an increase in total liabilities within the range of 12.0m 14.0m, and the same increase in total assets.
The difference between the value of lease commitments and increase in total liabilities is largely driven by the requirement to discount the lease liabilities to present value.
On a pro forma basis the Group expects that underlying EBITDA would increase by approximately 3.9m, that underlying operating profit would increase by approximately 0.2m 0.4m and that underlying profit before tax would reduce by approximately 0.1m 0.3m for 2019 as a result of adopting the new rules.
Operating cash flows will increase, and financing cash flows will decrease because repayment of the principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flows from financing activities.
SEGMENT INFORMATION IFRS 8, Operating Segments, requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of the internal financial information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Groups CODM is deemed to be the Board of Directors, who are primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
The Group has two reporting segments Residential Systems and Commercial and Infrastructure Systems.
The reporting segments are organised based on the nature of the end markets served.
There are no significant judgements in aggregating operating segments to arrive at the reporting segments.
Inter-segment sales are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
2018 2017 Commercial & Commercial & Residential Infrastructure Residential Infrastructure Systems Systems Total Systems Systems Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Segmental revenue 249.9 197.2 447.1 228.8 196.0 424.8 Inter segment revenue 4.6 9.3 13.9 5.3 7.8 13.1 Revenue 245.3 187.9 433.2 223.5 188.2 411.7 Underlying operating profit 46.3 27.7 74.0 44.3 28.3 72.6 Non-underlying items segmental 3.6 4.5 8.1 2.1 7.7 9.8 Segmental operating profit 42.7 23.2 65.9 42.2 20.6 62.8 Non-underlying items Group 0.1 0.3 Operating profit 65.8 62.5 Non-underlying items finance costs 0.7 Finance costs 6.9 6.9 Profit before tax 58.2 55.6 Underlying operating profit is stated before non-underlying items as defined in the Group Accounting Policies on page 127, and is the measure of segment profit used by the Groups CODM.
Details of the non-underlying items of 8.9m 2017: 10.1m are set out below at Non-underlying items before tax.
Balance sheet 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Total Total Total Total assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Continuing operations Residential Systems 346.9 68.1 287.0 60.7 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 268.9 35.0 256.8 32.5 Total segment assets liabilities 615.8 103.1 543.8 93.2 Discontinued operations 23.3 10.9 Current and deferred income taxes 17.3 12.6 Net debt 46.2 210.4 35.7 184.1 Total Group 662.0 330.8 602.8 300.8 Net assets 331.2 302.0 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 131 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Capital additions 2018 2017 m m Residential Systems 13.0 10.3 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 10.9 12.1 Continuing operations 23.9 22.4 Discontinued operations 0.1 1.3 Total Group 24.0 23.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2018 2017 m m Residential Systems 8.3 8.0 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 7.0 6.9 Continuing operations 15.3 14.9 Discontinued operations 0.3 1.3 Total Group 15.6 16.2 Non-underlying items before tax 2018 2017 m m Residential Systems restructuring costs 0.3 Residential Systems amortisation of intangible assets 2.1 1.8 Residential Systems acquisition costs 1.5 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems restructuring costs 4.0 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems amortisation of intangible assets 3.8 3.7 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems acquisition costs 0.7 UK operations 8.1 9.8 Group unwind of discount on contingent consideration 0.1 Group unamortised debt issue costs written off 0.6 Group aborted acquisition costs 0.3 Group loss on disposal of assets classified as held-for-sale 0.1 Continuing operations 8.9 10.1 Discontinued operations: loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Discontinued operations: profit from discontinued operations 0.3 1.4 Total Group 8.6 21.2 132 OUR FINANCIALS 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Geographical analysis 2018 2017 Revenue by destination m m Continuing operations UK 387.1 365.7 Rest of Europe 21.5 18.9 Rest of World 24.6 27.1 Total Group 433.2 411.7 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Non-current assets m m Continuing operations UK 515.7 451.1 Rest of Europe 4.4 4.0 Rest of World 0.2 Total Group 520.3 455.1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.
The Group has two customers 2017: two which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total continuing revenue during 2018.
These customers account for 16.9% and 14.2%, respectively 2017: 15.0% and 12.0%, respectively and are included in both reporting segments.
OPERATING PROFIT 2018 2017 m m Income statement charges Continuing operations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned 15.3 14.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 251.8 238.8 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 3.9 4.6 Research and development costs written off 0.7 0.8 Discontinued operations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned 0.3 1.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 13.5 46.1 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 0.1 Income statement credits continuing operations Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 133 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 7.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to the Companys auditor in respect of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
Auditors remuneration for audit services: 2018 2017 m m Audit of the Companys annual financial statements Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 The Group did not make any payments to the Companys auditor for non-audit services 2017: nil.
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS Non-underlying items comprised: 2018 2017 Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net m m m m m m Cost of sales: Restructuring costs 2.8 0.2 2.6 Administration expenses: Restructuring costs 1.5 1.5 Administration expenses: Aborted acquisition costs 0.3 0.1 0.2 Administration expenses: Acquisition costs 2.2 2.2 Administration expenses: Loss on disposal of assets classified as held-forsale 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.9 1.0 4.9 5.5 0.9 4.6 Finance costs: Unamortised debt issue costs written off 0.6 0.1 0.5 Finance costs: Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 0.1 0.1 Discontinued operations: Loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 12.5 Discontinued operations: Profit loss from discontinued operations 0.3 0.3 1.4 0.2 1.2 Total non-underlying items 8.6 1.1 7.5 21.2 1.0 20.2 Acquisition costs relate to the acquisition of Manthorpe Building Products Holdings Limited and Permavoid Limited as explained in Note 17.
The loss on disposal of assets classified as held-for-sale relates to surplus freehold land and buildings at Wolverhampton.
Details of the unamortised debt issue costs written off are provided in Note 26.
Gross restructuring costs of 4.3m were recognised in 2017 in respect of a change in our Commercial and Infrastructure Systems manufacturing strategy in the Middle East 4.0m and the relocation of our Residential Systems Domus Ventilation manufacturing facilities 0.3m.
Of the 4.0m Middle East restructuring costs, 1.7m were non-cash and the remaining 2.3m costs were fully cash settled during 2018.
The Domus Ventilation restructuring plan was drawn up, announced and completed in 2017.
The discontinued operations relate to the sale of Polypipe France Holding SAS as explained in Note 19.
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS CONTINUED Provisions comprised: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Restructuring costs 2.2 9.
STAFF COSTS Staff costs including Directors comprised: 2018 2017 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 90.9 87.1 Social security costs 9.0 8.3 Other pension costs 2.8 2.6 102.7 98.0 Discontinued operations Wages and salaries 1.6 6.2 Social security costs 0.7 2.6 Other pension costs 0.1 2.3 8.9 105.0 106.9 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group by segment was as follows: 2018 2017 m m Residential Systems 1,699 1,668 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 1,257 1,257 Continuing operations 2,956 2,925 Discontinued operations 53 214 Total Group 3,009 3,139 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 135 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 10.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Details of the Directors remuneration are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Fees 0.3 0.3 Emoluments 1.9 1.8 2.2 2.1 The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was nil 2017: 0.3m.
FINANCE COSTS 2018 2017 m m Interest on bank loan 5.8 5.8 Debt issue cost amortisation 0.4 0.3 Other finance costs 0.7 0.8 Unamortised debt issue costs written off 0.6 Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 0.1 7.6 6.9 12.
INCOME TAX a Tax charged in the income statement 2018 2017 m m Continuing operations Current income tax: UK income tax 11.6 11.2 Overseas income tax 0.1 0.1 Current income tax charge 11.7 11.3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.5 Total current income tax 11.2 11.3 Deferred income tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.7 0.7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.1 Total deferred income tax 1.8 0.7 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 9.4 10.6 Discontinued operations Current income tax: Overseas income tax 0.2 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 0.2 Details of the non-underlying tax credit of 1.1m 2017: 1.0m are set out in Note 8.
INCOME TAX CONTINUED b Reconciliation of the total tax charge A reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the blended UK standard rate of income tax for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Accounting profit before tax continuing operations 58.2 55.6 Accounting profit multiplied by the blended UK standard rate of income tax of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 11.1 10.7 Expenses not deductible for income tax 0.8 0.4 Share-based payments 0.1 0.4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.6 Effects of patent box 0.9 0.8 Effects of changes in income tax rates 0.1 0.1 Effects of tax losses 0.6 Effects of other tax rates credits 0.4 0.8 Total tax expense reported in the income statement continuing operations 9.4 10.6 Total tax expense reported in the income statement discontinued operations 0.2 The effective rate for the full year was 16.2% 2017: 19.1%.
If the impact of non-underlying items is excluded, the underlying income tax rate would be 15.6% 2017: 18.0%.
c Deferred income tax The deferred income tax included in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Continuing operations Deferred income tax liabilities assets Short-term timing differences 9.9 6.2 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 2.4 1.3 Share-based payments 0.7 0.5 Tax losses 0.6 Continuing operations 11.0 7.0 Discontinued operations 0.3 The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if, and only if, it has a legally enforceable right to set off current income tax assets and current income tax liabilities and the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 137 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 12.
INCOME TAX CONTINUED A reconciliation of deferred income taxes for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Deferred income tax reported in the income statement 1.8 0.7 Deferred income tax reported in other comprehensive income 0.2 0.3 Share-based payments excess tax benefit 0.1 0.1 Deferred income tax disposed 0.3 Deferred income tax acquired 5.7 Net foreign exchange difference 0.1 4.3 0.6 d Change in corporation tax rate The Chancellor has announced that the main UK corporation tax rate will be reduced from the current rate of 19%, which was applied from 1 April 2017, to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17% was included in the UK Finance Act 2016 that was enacted in September 2016.
Deferred income tax is measured at income tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary timing differences are expected to reverse based on income tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax has therefore been provided at 17% 2017: 17%.
e Unrecognised tax losses A deferred income tax asset of 0.6m in respect of surplus non-trading losses of 3.7m was recognised during the year ended 31December 2018.
No deferred income tax asset was recognised at 31 December 2017 in respect of those historical surplus nontrading losses of 3.7m since at that date recovery was uncertain.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of potential ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive share options into ordinary shares.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following: 2018 2017 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 198,989,726 198,390,485 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 2,112,645 1,788,892 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 201,102,371 200,179,377 Underlying earnings per share is based on the result for the year after tax excluding the impact of non-underlying items of 7.5m 2017: 20.2m.
The Directors consider that this measure provides a better and more consistent indication of the Groups underlying financial performance and a more meaningful comparison with prior and future periods to assess trends in our financial performance.
The underlying earnings per share is calculated as follows: 2018 2017 Underlying profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company m 56.6 53.9 Underlying basic earnings per share pence 28.4 27.2 Underlying diluted earnings per share pence 28.1 26.9 138 OUR FINANCIALS 14. DIVIDEND PER SHARE 2018 2017 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 7.5p per share 2016: 7.0p 14.9 13.9 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 3.7p per share 2017: 3.6p 7.4 7.1 22.3 21.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 7.9p per share 2017: 7.5p 15.7 14.9 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these consolidated financial statements.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Plant land and and other buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 47.1 166.9 214.0 Additions 1.9 21.8 23.7 Disposals 1.3 1.3 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 11.5 31.4 42.9 Exchange adjustment 0.3 1.2 1.5 At 31 December 2017 37.8 157.2 195.0 Additions 0.4 23.5 23.9 Disposals 4.6 4.6 Acquisition of businesses 8.4 2.8 11.2 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 46.6 179.0 225.6 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 10.6 102.4 113.0 Provided during the year 1.3 14.9 16.2 Disposals 1.2 1.2 Impairment 0.9 0.9 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 6.7 27.0 33.7 Exchange adjustment 0.2 1.0 1.2 At 31 December 2017 5.4 91.0 96.4 Provided during the year 1.1 14.2 15.3 Disposals 4.5 4.5 At 31 December 2018 6.5 100.7 107.2 Net book value: At 31 December 2018 40.1 78.3 118.4 At 31 December 2017 32.4 66.2 98.6 The impairment charge in 2017 of 0.9m related to plant and equipment in the Middle East as explained in Note 8.
The Polypipe France assets with a net book value of 9.2m were reclassified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-forSale and Discontinued Operations, as explained in Note 19.
Included in freehold land and buildings is non-depreciable land of 14.7m 2017: 12.6m.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 139 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 16.
During 2017 the Polypipe France goodwill of 9.6m was reclassified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, as explained in Note 19.
Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to a number of cash-generating units CGUs.
These represent the lowest level in the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 CGU m m Building Products 146.1 146.1 Building Services 31.4 31.4 Civils 36.0 36.0 Nuaire 91.3 91.3 Manthorpe 21.3 Others 16.9 14.9 343.0 319.7 Impairment tests on the carrying amounts of goodwill are performed by analysing the carrying amount allocated to each CGU against its value in use.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU as the net present value of that CGUs discounted future pre-tax cash flows.
These pre-tax cash flows are based on budgeted cash flows information for a period of one year, construction industry forecasts of growth for the following year and growth of between 2% to 3% thereafter 2017: 2% to 3%.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED A pre-tax discount rate of 10.0% 2017: 10.0% has been applied in determining the recoverable amounts of CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rate is estimated based on the Groups risk adjusted cost of capital.
The Group has applied sensitivities to assess whether any reasonably possible changes in assumptions could cause an impairment that would be material to these consolidated financial statements.
The application of these sensitivities did not cause an impairment of goodwill.
ACQUISITIONS Permavoid On 31 August 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Permavoid Limited Permavoid, a specialist designer and supplier of surface water management solutions in commercial, residential, and sports pitch applications, for an initial cash consideration of 4.3m on a cash-free, debt-free and normalised working capital basis, and further contingent consideration of up to 12.5m depending on the EBITDA performance of Permavoid in the two years to 30 September 2020.
The initial cash consideration of 4.3m included a payment of 0.3m for net cash at completion.
Details of the acquisition are as follows: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value m m m Intangible assets 2.9 2.9 Plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Inventories 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.2 Cash 0.3 0.3 Trade and other payables 0.4 0.1 0.5 Income tax liabilities 0.1 0.1 Deferred income tax 0.5 0.5 Net identifiable assets 1.4 2.3 3.7 Goodwill on acquisition 2.0 Estimated contingent consideration 1.4 Initial cash consideration 4.3 Patents, licences and customer relationships have been recognised as specific intangible assets as a result of this acquisition.
Fair value adjustments principally relate to the recognition of intangible assets and the related deferred income tax.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition primarily represents the assembled workforce, technical expertise and market share.
The goodwill is allocated entirely to the Commercial and Infrastructure Systems segment.
Post-acquisition Permavoid has contributed 1.3m revenue and 0.2m underlying operating profit which is included in the Group income statement.
If Permavoid had been acquired on 1 January 2018 the Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have shown revenue from continuing operations of 437.0m and underlying operating profit of 74.3m.
The analysis of cash flows from the acquisition was as follows: m Cash consideration included in cash flows from investing activities 4.3 Cash acquired included in cash flows from investing activities 0.3 Acquisition costs included in cash flows from operating activities 0.3 Net cash flow on acquisition 4.3 Acquisition costs of 0.5m were expensed and are included in non-underlying items in administration expenses.
Of the 0.5m acquisition costs, 0.3m were fully cash settled in the year and 0.2m is included in trade and other payables.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 141 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 17.
ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED Contingent consideration at fair value of 1.7m has been recognised at the balance sheet date.
Of this, 1.4m is contingent on EBITDA performance in the first year of trading following acquisition and has been included in the purchase consideration.
The balance of 0.3m is included in non-underlying items and relates to a second payment that is contingent on EBITDA performance in the second year of trading following acquisition and the continued employment of key personnel, and is being accrued over the two-year period.
Of the 0.3m, 0.2m is included in administration expenses and 0.1m is included in finance costs.
The EBITDA used to estimate the contingent cash consideration is derived from the budgets and forecasts for Permavoid.
The fair value of the consideration has been derived by discounting the estimated cash consideration at 10.0% being the Groups estimated risk adjusted cost of capital.
Manthorpe On 25 October 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Manthorpe Building Products Holdings Limited Manthorpe, a leading designer and manufacturer of moulded and extruded plastic and metal products to the UK and Irish residential and RMI markets, together with associated freehold land and buildings, for a total cash consideration of 56.7m on a cash-free, debt-free and normalised working capital basis.
The cash consideration of 56.7m included a payment of 4.6m for net cash at completion and 8.0m for land and buildings that were separately transacted.
Details of the acquisition are as follows: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value m m m Intangible assets 25.1 25.1 Property, plant and equipment 10.5 10.5 Inventories 1.0 1.0 Trade and other receivables 3.8 3.8 Cash 4.6 4.6 Trade and other payables 3.0 0.9 3.9 Income tax liabilities 0.5 0.5 Deferred income tax 0.1 5.1 5.2 Net identifiable assets 16.3 19.1 35.4 Goodwill on acquisition 21.3 Total consideration 56.7 Patents, the Manthorpe brand and customer relationships have been recognised as specific intangible assets as a result of this acquisition.
Fair value adjustments principally relate to the recognition of intangible assets, provision for warranty-related costs and the deferred income tax arising on these adjustments and on the property acquired.
The goodwill is allocated entirely to the Residential Systems segment.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 3.8m.
The gross amount of trade and other receivables is 4.2m and it is expected that the full contractual amounts will be collected.
Post-acquisition Manthorpe has contributed 2.8m revenue and 0.9m underlying operating profit which is included in the Group income statement.
If Manthorpe had been acquired on 1 January 2018 the Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have shown revenue from continuing operations of 447.6m and underlying operating profit of 78.2m.
ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED The analysis of cash flows from the acquisition was as follows: m Cash consideration included in cash flows from investing activities 56.7 Cash acquired included in cash flows from investing activities 4.6 Acquisition costs included in cash flows from operating activities 1.2 Stamp duty on asset purchase included in cash flows from operating activities 0.4 Net cash flow on acquisition 53.7 Acquisition costs of 1.5m were expensed and are included in non-underlying items in administration expenses.
Of the 1.5m acquisition costs, 1.2m were fully cash settled in the year and 0.3m is included in trade and other payables.
Stamp duty of 0.4m on the land and buildings separately transacted has been capitalised in fixed assets.
INVESTMENTS Details of Group undertakings Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital at 31 December 2018 are set out in Note 4 to the parent company financial statements.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE On 31 January 2018, the Group announced that it had entered into exclusive negotiations to sell Polypipe France Holding SAS, its French operations, to Ryb S. A. a France-based manufacturer and distributor of plastics in Europe.
After successful completion of the required employee consultation process the sale was completed on 29 March 2018.
The cash consideration paid by Ryb S. A. was 16.5m on a cash-free, debt-free and normalised working capital basis.
At 31 December 2017 the net assets of the French operations were classified as held-for-sale in the balance sheet.
In accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, an impairment loss of 12.5m to remeasure the carrying amount of the assets to fair value less costs to sell was recognised following the reclassification of the net assets of Polypipe France Holding SAS as held-for-sale.
An analysis of the assets classified as held-for-sale and liabilities associated with the assets classified as held-for-sale at 31 December 2017 was as follows: Impairment 31 December Book value loss 2017 m m m Assets classified as held-for-sale Intangible assets 9.6 9.6 Property, plant and equipment 9.2 2.9 6.3 Inventories 7.7 7.7 Trade and other receivables 9.0 9.0 Deferred income tax assets 0.3 0.3 35.8 12.5 23.3 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held-for-sale Trade and other payables 9.5 9.5 Income tax payable 0.2 0.2 Other liabilities 1.2 1.2 10.9 10.9 Net assets classified as held-for-sale 24.9 12.5 12.4 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 143 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 19.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE CONTINUED A total loss on disposal of 12.5m was anticipated and previously recognised.
The actual loss on disposal at 29 March 2018 was 12.5m, after recycling of foreign exchange differences to the income statement, with no change to the loss on disposal previously recognised.
The actual loss on disposal was calculated as follows: m Intangible assets 9.6 Property, plant and equipment 9.0 Inventories 8.4 Trade and other receivables 14.2 Deferred income tax assets 0.2 Trade and other payables 14.0 Other liabilities 1.2 Net assets sold 26.2 Disposal proceeds: Cash 14.0 Directly attributable costs 0.6 Net proceeds 13.4 Loss on disposal before tax and recycling of foreign exchange differences 12.8 Recycling of foreign exchange differences to the income statement 0.3 Loss on disposal 12.5 The net cash inflow from the disposal reported in investing activities was as follows: m Disposal proceeds 13.2 Directly attributable costs 0.4 Overdraft divested 0.8 Net cash inflow 13.6 The table below provides further detail of the discontinued operations: 2018 2017 m m Revenue 16.7 58.4 Expenses 16.4 57.0 Profit before tax 0.3 1.4 Income tax 0.2 Profit from discontinued operations 0.3 1.2 Loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Profit from discontinued operations 0.3 11.3 144 OUR FINANCIALS 19.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE CONTINUED The remaining assets classified as held-for-sale comprised: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Property, plant and equipment 0.7 These assets classified as held-for-sale consisted exclusively of freehold land currently not in use by the Group.
The disposal of this asset was completed during 2018 resulting in a loss on disposal of 0.1m.
The assets classified as held-for-sale were analysed between operating segments as follows: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Residential Systems 0.4 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 0.3 0.7 20.
INVENTORIES 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 19.1 18.2 Work in progress 6.0 5.3 Finished goods 33.0 30.0 58.1 53.5 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow-moving and obsolete items.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 31.3 28.6 Amounts owed by associated undertakings 0.2 Prepayments 5.9 5.9 37.4 34.5 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally settled on 30 days credit.
Expected credit losses The Group maintains a substantial level of credit insurance covering the majority of its trade receivables which mitigates against expected credit losses.
Therefore, such credit losses are not significant.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 145 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 21.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Allowance Allowance for expected for expected Gross credit losses Net Gross credit losses Net m m m m m m Not past due 27.2 27.2 26.9 26.9 Past due 130 days 3.4 3.4 0.9 0.9 Past due 3190 days 1.2 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.6 Past due more than 90 days 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.5 0.2 31.9 0.6 31.3 29.1 0.5 28.6 The movements in the allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables comprised: m At 31 December 2016 0.6 Charged to the income statement during the year 0.3 Utilised during the year 0.4 At 31 December 2017 0.5 Charged to the income statement during the year 0.1 Utilised during the year At 31 December 2018 0.6 22.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprised: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 46.2 35.7 Cash at bank earns interest at variable rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
The Group only deposits cash surpluses with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Number Number Authorised share capital: Ordinary shares of 0.001 each 200 200,000 200 200,000 Allotted, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.001 each 200 200,000 200 200,000 Millions of shares.
The ordinary shares are voting non-redeemable shares and rank equally as to dividends, voting rights and any return of capital on winding up.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED Capital redemption reserve Following the consolidation and subdivision of shares in 2014 the Companys deferred shares were cancelled.
In order to maintain the Companys capital a transfer was made from retained earnings to a capital redemption reserve at that time.
Own shares Own shares represent the cost of Polypipe Group plc shares purchased in the market and held by the Company, and or the employee benefit trust EBT, to satisfy the future exercise of options under the Groups share option schemes.
At 31 December 2018, the Group held 221,211 2017: 402,746 of its own shares at an average cost of 292p 2017: 294p per share.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2018 was 0.7m 2017: 1.6m.
The nominal value of each share is 0.001.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2018 was 2.4m 2017: 2.9m.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve contains the effective portion of the cash flow hedge relationships entered into by the Group in respect of interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency derivatives as mentioned in Note 26.
Foreign currency retranslation reserve The foreign currency retranslation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate capital structure to support its business objectives and maximise shareholder value.
The Group regards shareholders equity and net debt as its capital.
The Groups net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had bank debt of 212.0m 2017: 185.0m, an undrawn committed revolving credit facility of 88.0m 2017: 105.0m, cash of 46.2m 2017: 35.7m and an uncommitted accordion facility of 50.0m 2017: nil.
A key objective of the Group is to maintain sufficient liquidity cash and committed bank facilities in order to meet its cash commitments including interest payments due on that debt.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 147 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 24.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 3.85.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 3.71.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 3.78.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was 4.17.
At 31 December 2018, no share options were exercisable.
At 31 December 2017, 166,790 share options were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 1.99 per share.
Sharesave Plan Sharesave Plan options were granted to eligible employees on 4 October 2018 at an exercise price of 2.98 per share, a 20% discount to the average share price over the three business days preceding the offer.
Participating employees can exercise their options to purchase the shares acquired through their savings plans at the option price after three years.
These options have an exercise date of 2021 to 2022.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP options were awarded to a number of senior executives on 2 May 2018.
These options have an exercise date of 2021 to 2028.
The vesting of each award is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria, of which 25% is based on total shareholder return the TSR element and 75% is based on earnings per share performance the EPS element.
Further details of the scheme are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP On 2 May 2018, the Executive Directors received an award of shares under the DSBP relating to the 2017 annual bonus.
Other share awards On 21 March 2018, other share awards in the form of nil cost options were made relating to buy-out arrangements to partially compensate Paul James for bonus and long-term incentive awards which were forfeited when he left his previous employer.
In 2016 other share awards in the form of nil cost options were made relating to buy-out arrangements to partially compensate Martin Payne for bonus and long-term incentive awards which were forfeited when he left his previous employer.
Of these, 11,035 were exercised on 16 May 2018 including 586 in respect of dividends accrued since the grant date.
Further details are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
All these equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimates of shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Fair value for the Sharesave Plan options and the EPS element of the LTIP options is measured by use of a BlackScholes model.
Fair value of the TSR element of the LTIP options is measured by use of a Monte Carlo model.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions used for each share-based payment are as follows: 2014 LTIP 2014 options Sharesave granted options 2 May granted 2018 2018 Share price at the date of grant 3.87 3.73 Exercise price Nil 2.98 Shares under option 528,864 933,693 Vesting period years 3.00 3.25 Expected volatility 30.3% 29.2% Median volatility of the comparator group 29.8% n a Expected life years 3.00 3.25 Risk free rate 0.89% 0.89% Dividend yield 2.87% 3.00% TSR performance of the Company at the date of grant 3.6% n a Median TSR performance of the comparator group at the date of grant 1.4% n a Correlation median 24.6% n a Fair value per option 3.20 0.92 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 149 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 24.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 2014 2014 2014 LTIP LTIP Sharesave options options options granted granted granted 2 May 2017 22 May 2017 2017 Share price at the date of grant 4.03 4.20 4.09 Exercise price Nil Nil 3.10 Shares under option 499,896 10,960 1,108,772 Vesting period years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Expected volatility 30.0% 29.9% 28.0% Median volatility of the comparator group 29.9% 30.0% n a Expected life years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Risk free rate 0.15% 0.18% 0.30% Dividend yield 2.50% 2.40% 2.59% TSR performance of the Company at the date of grant 31.7% 37.2% n a Median TSR performance of the comparator group at the date of grant 17.0% 17.0% n a Correlation median 22.4% 22.6% n a Fair value per option 3.44 3.63 0.91 The expected volatility is based on historical share price movements.
The Directors anticipate it is possible the performance criteria in relation to the LTIP options may not be met.
2018 2017 m m Share-based payments charge for the year 1.0 1.2 25.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 76.7 68.5 Other taxes and social security costs 9.4 8.3 Accruals 13.5 10.8 99.6 87.6 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and generally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Non-current loans and borrowings: Bank loan principal 212.0 185.0 unamortised debt issue costs 1.6 0.9 Total non-current loans and borrowings 210.4 184.1 150 OUR FINANCIALS 26.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTINUED 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 99.6 87.6 Forward foreign currency derivatives 0.1 Interest rate swaps 1.0 2.5 Other liabilities 0.7 0.9 Contingent consideration 1.7 103.1 91.0 Bank loan On 19 November 2018, the Group entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement with various lenders in respect of the Groups previous revolving credit facility agreement dated 4 August 2015.
The bank loan, which comprises a 300.0m revolving credit facility and 50.0m uncommitted accordion facility, is secured and matures in November 2023 with two further uncommitted annual renewals through to November 2025 possible.
Interest is payable on the bank loan at LIBOR plus an interest margin ranging from 0.90% to 2.75% which is dependent on the Groups leverage net debt as a multiple of EBITDA and reduces as the Groups leverage reduces.
The Group incurred 1.7m of debt issue costs in respect of entering into the Amendment and Restatement Agreement dated 19 November 2018 which have been capitalised and are being amortised to the income statement over the term of the facility to November 2023.
Unamortised debt issue costs of 0.6m in respect of entering into the Amendment and Restatement Agreement dated 4 August 2015 have been written off to the income statement.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had available, subject to covenant headroom and excluding the 50.0m uncommitted accordion facility, 88.0m 2017: 105.0m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at 31 December 2018.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its bank loan which, if breached, would result in the bank loan becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify certain maximum limits in terms of net debt as a multiple of EBITDA and interest cover.
At 31 December 2018, the Group was not in breach of any bank covenants.
The covenant position was as follows: Position at Covenant 31 December Covenant requirement 2018 Interest cover Underlying operating profit:Finance costs excluding debt issue cost amortisation 4.0:1 11.3:1 Leverage Net debt:pro forma EBITDA 3.0:1 1.7:1 The interest cover and leverage covenants remain at 4.0:1 and 3.0:1, respectively, throughout the remaining term of the revolving credit facility to November 2023, though there exists the option to apply to extend the leverage covenant to 3.5:1 for a limited period of time if the Group makes an acquisition.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 151 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 27.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of between five to ten years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases comprised: 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Land and buildings Within one year 0.4 1.2 After one year, but not more than five years 3.1 3.5 More than five years 4.8 5.7 8.3 10.4 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Plant and equipment Within one year 0.3 0.2 After one year, but not more than five years 2.8 2.3 More than five years 2.6 2.6 5.7 5.1 Capital commitments At 31 December 2018, the Group had commitments of 3.7m 2017: 3.6m relating to plant and equipment purchases.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Compensation of key management personnel including Directors : 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.6 2.9 Share-based payments 0.3 0.5 2.9 3.4 Key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors and key divisional managers.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has trade and other receivables and cash that are derived directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate cash flow, foreign currency exchange, credit and liquidity risk.
The Groups senior management oversees the mitigation of these risks which are summarised as follows: Interest rate cash flow risk The interest rate on the Groups 300m revolving credit facility is variable, being payable at LIBOR plus a margin.
To reduce the Groups exposure to potential future increases in interest rates the Group has entered into interest rate swaps for the following notional amounts, with interest payable at a fixed rate return dependent on the swap of either 2.21% or 1.735% 2017: 2.21% or 1.735% excluding margin : Notional Notional amount amount rate rate of 2.21% of 1.735% Year ending 31 December m m 2019 82.0 To August 2020 72.2 Foreign currency exchange risk Foreign currency exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument or future cash flows will fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities where the revenue or expense is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity undertaking the transaction.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts for the purchase and sale of foreign currencies in order to manage its exposure to fluctuations in currency rates primarily in respect of US Dollar and Euro receipts and payments.
Foreign currency exchange sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 10% change in the Euro exchange rate and the United Arab Emirates Dirham exchange rate versus Pounds Sterling, the presentational currency of the Group used for translation purposes, on the net assets and profit after tax of the Group.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on Effect on profit net assets after tax Change in exchange rate m m 2018 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 0.4 0.1 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 0.5 0.1 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirates Dirham 0.2 0.1 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirates Dirham 0.3 0.1 2017 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 1.8 0.1 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 2.2 0.1 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirates Dirham 0.1 0.3 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirates Dirham 0.1 0.4 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 153 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for trade receivables and from its financing activities, including cash deposits with banks.
Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each subsidiary subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major export customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
The requirement for impairment is analysed at each balance sheet date on an individual basis for major clients.
Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The calculation is based on actually incurred historical data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of each class of financial assets as disclosed in Note 21.
The Group does not hold collateral as security.
The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low.
At 31 December 2018, 69.0% 2017: 68.2% of net trade receivables were covered by credit insurance which is subject to the normal policy deductibles.
Financial instruments and cash deposits The Group maintains strong liquidity through cash balances and deposits 46.2m at 31December 2018 and its undrawn committed revolving credit facility 88.0m at 31December 2018 which matures in November 2023 with two further uncommitted annual renewals through to November 2025 possible.
Credit risk arising from cash deposits with banks is managed in accordance with the Groups established treasury policy, procedures and controls.
Deposits of surplus funds are made only with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 22.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group had cash and cash equivalents of 46.2m and undrawn and committed credit facilities of 88.0m at 31 December 2018, and no debt maturities within 12 months.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments: 31 December 2018 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Bank loan principal 212.0 212.0 Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 99.6 99.6 Contingent consideration 1.4 0.3 1.7 Forward foreign currency derivatives 1.9 2.3 4.2 Interest rate swaps 1.0 1.0 Other liabilities 0.7 0.7 101.5 3.7 214.0 319.2 154 OUR FINANCIALS 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED 31 December 2017 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Bank loan principal 185.0 185.0 Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 87.6 87.6 Forward foreign currency derivatives 4.2 3.2 7.4 Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 Other liabilities 0.9 0.9 91.8 3.2 188.4 283.4 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The book value of trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, cash balances, bank loan and other liabilities equates to fair value.
The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of its other financial liabilities and their carrying amounts and fair values: Carrying Fair value value m m Forward foreign currency derivatives designated as hedging instruments 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments 1.0 1.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings due after more than one year designated as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 210.4 210.4 Contingent consideration designated as financial liabilities at FVTPL 1.7 1.7 Total at 31 December 2018 213.2 213.2 Carrying Fair value value m m Forward foreign currency derivatives Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 Interest bearing loans and borrowings due after more than one year 184.1 184.1 Total at 31 December 2017 186.6 186.6 The fair values were determined as follows by reference to: } forward foreign currency derivatives: quoted exchange rates. }
interest rate swaps: market values. }
contingent consideration: Directors assessment of the likelihood that financial targets will be achieved see Note 17.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 155 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 29.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recognised fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recognised fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair values disclosed above, with the exception of contingent consideration which is categorised as Level 3, all relate to items categorised as Level 2.
There have been no transfers in any direction between Levels 1, 2 or 3 in the years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT The net cash flows in respect of Polypipe France were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Operating 1.2 2.5 Investing 0.6 1.2 Financing 2.4 Net cash outflow inflow 4.2 1.3 156
