STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Where we operate 4 PEVEK MAYSKOYE Our operations are in Russia and Kazakhstan.
We have nine operational gold and silver mines, OMOLON 5 as well as three major development projects and DUKAT 6 further growth opportunities, which are often located in remote regions.
Were investing in MAGADAN VIKSHA PROGNOZ 11 10 sustainability across all our existing operations OKHOTSK NEZHDA 12 and new developments.
YAKUTSK SVETLOYE 7 ST. PETERSBURG 3 ALBAZINO Operating mine 8 RUSSIA VANINO Development projects VORO 9 AMURSK POX Further growth opportunities EKATERINBURG KHABAROVSK Competence centre 2 City town KOSTANAY Sea port VARVARA NAKHODKA OSKEMEN 1 KYZYL KAZAKHSTAN 1 2 3 7 8 9 Kyzyl Varvara Voro Svetloye Albazino Amursk Operating mines: Bakyrchik Operating mines: Varvara, Komar Operating mines: Voro Operating mines: Svetloye Operating mines: Albazino Feed: Albazino, Mayskoye, Kyzyl, Key exploration projects: Bakyrchik flanks, Key exploration project: East Tarutin, Key exploration project: Saum, Tamunier, Key exploration projects: Levoberezhny Key exploration projects: Albazino flanks, third-party concentrate Bolshevik Komar flanks Elevator, South area Pescherny, Galkinskoye, Krasnoturinsky Processing: 1.4 Mtpa heap leach Urkachik, Syransk area Processing: Concentrate POX cyanidation Processing: 1.8 Mtpa flotation POX Processing: 3.0 Mtpa leaching for gold ore, Processing: 950 Ktpa CIP and 1 Mtpa Processing: 1.6 Mtpa flotation POX concentrate off-take 1.0 Mtpa flotation for copper ore heap leach 96 Koz 7.2 Moz 142 Koz 2.8 Moz 107 Koz 0.7 Moz 136 Koz 0.4 Moz 308 Koz 2.3 Moz 322 Koz 96.7% GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE Hub GE production POX recovery $54m $829 $77m $940 $88m $477 $124m $425 $184m $800 Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz 4 5 6 10 11 12 Mayskoye Omolon Dukat Nezhda Prognoz Viksha Operating mines: Mayskoye Operating mines: Birkachan, Sopka, Operating mines: Dukat, Lunnoye, Russias 4th largest gold deposit Largest undeveloped primary silver Mining: open-pit Processing: 850 Ktpa leach & flotation Tsokol, Olcha Goltsovoye Mining: open-pit underground deposit in Russia POX concentrate off-take Key exploration projects: Burgali, Key exploration projects: Primorskoye, Processing: Gravity flotation POX Mining: open-pit underground Yolochka, Irbychan, Nevenrekan Terem, Perevalnoye, Dukat flanks, Lunnoye.
concentrate off-take Processing: 850 Ktpa CIP Merrill-Crowe Processing: 2.0 Mtpa flotation Omsukchan Kubaka, 1 Mtpa heap leach Birkachan 450 Ktpa Merrill-Crowe Lunnoye concentrate off-take 117 Koz 2.2 Moz 195 Koz 1.1 Moz 306 Koz 1.4 Moz 4.4 Moz 8.1 Moz 256 Moz 9.5 Moz GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE GE production Reserves GE Reserves SE Resources GE Resources SE Resources PE $35m $970 106m $816 $137m $10.3 155 Koz $700 1 1 Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Adjusted EBITDA AISC $ GE oz Gold production AISC $ GE oz 1 Expected.
14 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Board Chairs statement Polymetal has worked hard to achieve both clarity and integrity in its financial The years since 2011 have seen significant market headwinds reporting and to ensure full transparency for gold mining companies and Polymetal has responded of corporate governance and executive positively to these difficult macroeconomic situations.
This year marks the end of my term of office as the Chair inclusion of Polymetal in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Highlights Our investor proposition of Polymetal.
The Group CEO gives a full report on the and FTSE4Good Index, as well as the reduction in interest Companys performance in 2018 in his statement overleaf, rates on our  corporate loan.
so I would like to take this opportunity to reflect on the High-grade long-life assets longer period since Polymetal moved its primary listing Clearly, more than 12,000 employees of this Company are Reserve quality and low capital intensity are fundamental to the London Stock Exchange, and I became Chair.
central to its success today and in the future.
The Board and enable us to generate free cash flow through the 3.2 Moz in particular engaged with Polymetals Young Leaders cycle and maximise the return on investment, while INCREASE OF ORE RESERVES The years since 2011 have seen significant market headwinds Programme, which identifies a promising pool of young reducing project development risks.
We will continue Year-on-year for gold mining companies and for Russian companies listed talent within the Company.
Polymetal invests in their training to improve the underlying business by streamlining our in London.
Polymetal responded proactively to these difficult and their continuing career development.
The Company asset portfolio and focusing on large, high-grade, lowmacroeconomic situations.
Firstly, in achieving operational is also committed to investing in the development of all its cost projects to deliver superior returns.
excellence: the Company has consistently met its production employees.
In 2018, we provided more than 20,000 training and cost guidance.
Even when gold prices remained low, sessions for our employees.
Technology leadership $223m it continued to generate a strong free cash flow.
Polymetals focus on its particular strategic and There have been areas of disappointment during this time.
PROPOSED DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR competitive strengths in selective mining, processing Secondly, the Company has chosen to focus on innovative Without a doubt the biggest failure has been the persistence 2017: $196m refractory ores and trading precious metal concentrates technology in general and new metallurgical recovery of serious and fatal accidents.
Although progress is being has established a company with the enviable position processes.
Polymetal built the first pressure oxidation POX made in enhancing all aspects of employee safety, continued of being able to both acquire or explore attractive recovery plant in Russia, which it has operated effectively effort and vigilance will be needed.
investment opportunities in our region of the world, since commissioning.
Further expansion of the Amursk POX and to deliver on them.
15.2 Mt plant with the second POX line was approved by the Board A bright future for Polymetal in February 2019.
Both governance and shareholder expectations will continue ORE PROCESSED Stable dividend income to shape this Companys performance.
Transparency, fairness Through our commitment to capital discipline and a 16% Like all mining companies, Polymetal faces the challenge of and embracing diversity will be expected of Polymetal in all robust dividend policy, we are able to deliver a sectorreplacing reserves, and preferably growing production and the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Ever-higher standards leading dividend yield and superior shareholder returns.
future ounces: both of which it has done successfully.
The of environmental stewardship will be a challenge for all Kyzyl mine in Kazakhstan was the major new growth project businesses.
And, for all mining companies, the challenge Investing for a sustainable future over the last eight years: this was designed, built and came to attract the brightest and the best of the next generation We work to minimise adverse environmental and into production on time and within budget.
of employees will also continue.
social impacts at all the stages of our operations while maximising social and local benefits for communities At the same time, the Company has maintained strict It has been a privilege for me to be part of the Polymetal and employees.
We want to make mining more financial discipline, evidenced particularly in its consistent cost team since 2011.
I am proud of the performance of the entire sustainable by deploying green technologies, such performance and rigorous capital allocation.
This has also Polymetal team, inspirationally led by Vitaly Nesis.
The Board as pressure oxidation POX, and improving energy enabled Polymetal to reward its shareholders with significant now has a good mixture of institutional memory and fresh and material efficiency.
dividends through a clearly defined dividend policy.
I am particularly delighted that the Board has found Ian Cockerill, a most distinguished and very experienced Building a sustainable business mining leader to take over as Chair.
A further response to tough markets has been Polymetals determination to meet the highest standards of corporate I can see no reason why Polymetals next decade should governance and the refreshed Board will continue to play an not be even more successful than the last one.
Polymetal has worked hard to achieve both clarity and integrity in its financial reporting and to allay any shareholder concerns about corporate governance and executive remuneration practices.
The Company has also invested significant resources in its Bobby Godsell, Board Chair stewardship of the physical and social environments in which it operates, setting up best practice sustainability policies and procedures.
These efforts have been recognised by the 16 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 17 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Group CEOs statement Following the success of the Kyzyl launch, we are now in a good position to progress 2018 was of a year of reflection, as we celebrated our 20th our longterm development pipeline, retaining anniversary.
It was also a year when we successfully completed our narrow focus on large, longlived, some of our most ambitious projects.
At the 2019 AGM, we will formally say goodbye to Bobby These efforts were recognised by a number of international A year of sharpened focus Highlights Godsell, the Board Chair since 2011.
Bobbys strong support rating agencies.
Polymetal became the first company in Following the success of the Kyzyl launch, we are now in and wise leadership have helped shape the values and the the Former Soviet Union to join the prestigious Dow Jones a good position to advance our long-term development strategy of the Company he is now leaving.
On behalf of the Sustainability Index and was ranked 1st among 47 mining pipeline, retaining our narrow focus on large, long-lived, executive management and all our employees, I would like companies worldwide in the Sustainalytics rating.
The development of these assets will to say thank you and wish him well for the future.
Bobbys already creating tangible benefits for the business: most ensure free cash flow and dividend growth, resulting in 1.56 Moz imprint on Polymetal will undoubtedly be felt long after he notably the maximum available reduction in the interest rate superior shareholder returns.
GE PRODUCTION leaves the Company.
9% We increased our stake in Nezhda to 100% and completed A year of achievement the feasibility study, more than doubling its reserves to A year ahead Without a doubt, the most significant highlight of 2018 was 4.4 Moz.
This, together with the receipt of final government In 2019, we will focus on achieving a robust operating the successful launch and ramp-up of our newest mine in clearance, sealed the Boards decision to proceed with performance, with Kyzyl delivering approximately 300 Koz Kazakhstan, Kyzyl.
Polymetals decision to develop one of construction.
Nezhda is expected to generate a 29% IRR of gold in its first full year of production and a sustained $780m the worlds largest and highest-grade gold deposits had and increase our average life-of-mine profile from 13 to 16 contribution from our other operating mines.
Production 1 numerous sceptics, given the failure of the previous owners years.
We also acquired 100% ownership in Prognoz, the is forecast to remain flat at 1.55 Moz due to the disposal ADJUSTED EBITDA to move the project forward.
Many investors and analysts largest undeveloped primary silver deposit in Eurasia with of assets.
2017: $745m an initial silver equivalent resource estimate of 256 Moz.
questioned the wisdom of spending $620 million to acquire The feasibility study results are due in 2020.
In addition, we Kyzyl in 2014, at a time when there was a painful slump in Managements priorities will include safety, cost control and completed the feasibility study for the POX-2 project and gold prices.
However, Polymetals creative approach and operational improvement utilising new digital technologies.
gained Board approval in February 2019 to proceed with uncompromising focus on implementing this project has We also expect to achieve considerable results with reserve construction.
POX-2s light environmental footprint will ensure been fully corroborated.
Kyzyl delivered 96 Koz of payable replacement and enhancement, and through both nearthat Polymetal is well prepared for the significant tightening of production in 2018, significantly beating the original 2014 mine and greenfield exploration campaigns.
global environmental regulations, particularly in China.
Within its first half-year since launching, Kyzyl made a substantial contribution to 2018 production of Production growth will resume in 2020 with the goal of Alongside our development plans, we resolved to dispose 1.56 Moz and was the key driver behind our gold equivalent 1.85 Moz of gold equivalent in 2023 following the launch of of small, short-lived and high-cost operations.
This will GE production growth of 9%.
Nezhda and POX-2 will move into active enable us to reduce our leverage and allow management to construction stage during 2019.
We will also start the disposal focus more closely on core operations and projects.
Over In a co-ordinated development, the debottlenecking expansion process for non-core assets with the ambitious target of the last 12 months, we have already negotiated and closed at the Amursk POX pressure oxidation facility concluded generating more than $100 million in proceeds in 20192020. four transactions.
The sale of our stake in Dolinnoye and equally well.
Increased POX capacity enables higher gold disposals of Kapan, Okhotsk and Svetlobor have collectively recoveries from concentrate and reduces downstream 2018 was a year of reflection as we celebrated our 20th generated $108 million of proceeds that will be used to processing costs, thus improving the downstream processing anniversary.
It was also a year when we successfully reduce debt.
economics at Kyzyl and broadening the scope for the completed some of our most ambitious projects.
We set in profitable treatment of third-party feedstocks.
motion plans to continue on a path of long-term growth for During 2018 we had several significant exploration the business, which will in turn ensure substantial financial successes that helped grow our reserve base by 17%, This underpinned the robust financial results for the year, returns for our shareholders over the coming years.
I would without diluting the average grade.
Namely, large reserve with Adjusted EBITDA of $780 million up 5% over the prior like to say thank you to all our employees for the hard work additions at Nezhda and Mayskoye plus a significant year and AISC down by 4% to $861 oz, and enabled us to and commitment that has helped create the Company we are resource upgrade at Prognoz.
deliver a net profit of $355 million.
Despite investment in new today.
I look forward to achieving more together in the future.
development projects, capital spending at the Amursk POX expansion and completion of the Kyzyl project, Polymetal A year of sustainability generated a healthy free cash flow, totalling $176 million.
Polymetal remains firmly committed to operating its business This has allowed us to declare a substantial dividend in a sustainable manner and, in that respect, 2018 was a year totalling $223 million for 2018, maintaining our sector-leading of important milestones.
These included: a sizable reduction dividend yield.
in injury frequency rates: renewable energy sources at our remote sites in the Russian Far East: best practice human 1 The definition and calculation of non-IFRS measures, including Adjusted rights and climate change policies.
EBITDA, Total cash costs, All-in cash costs, Underlying net earnings, Net Vitaly Nesis, Group CEO debt, and the related ratios are defined in the Alternative Performance Measures section on page 190.
18 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Polymetal International plc 19
