Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 118 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMS The Company considers the following APMs which are considered to be known industry metrics: Discount Premium A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share usually expressed as a percentage % of the net asset value per share.
Net Asset Value The NAV is the value attributed to the underlying assets of the Company less the NAV liabilities, presented either on a per share or total basis.
The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
"The NAV is also described as ""Shareholders funds"" per share."
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
As at 30 April 2018, the total equity was 1,551,611,000 and there were 133,795,000 ordinary shares in issue.
The NAV per share was therefore 1159.69p.
Ongoing Charges Ongoing charges are calculated in accordance with AIC guidance by taking the Companys annualised ongoing charges, excluding performance fees and exceptional items, if any, and expressing them as a percentage of the average month end net asset value of the Company over the year.
Ongoing charges include all regular and expected costs and expenses of the Company expressed.
Transaction costs, interest payments, tax and non-recurring expenses are excluded from the calculation as are the costs incurred in relation to share issues and share buybacks.
Where a performance fee is paid or is payable, a second ongoing charge is provided, calculated on the same basis as the above but incorporating the amount of performance fee due or paid.
Ongoing charges for the year equals management fee of 13,202,000 plus other operating expenses of 1,119,000 divided by the average NAV in the period.
14,321,000 1,452,155,855 0.99% Ongoing charges including performance fee based on the above plus the performance fee of 11,169,000.
25,490,000 1,452,155,855 1.76% Total Costs Comprising all the operating costs of the Company including transaction costs, interest payments, tax and non-recurring expenses excluded from the ongoing charge calculation.
Costs in relation to share issues and share buybacks are excluded from the calculation.
The total cost input can be found in the statement of comprehensive income on page 84.
Total Net Assets The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
The total net assets input can be found in the balance sheet on page 86.
NAV Total Return The NAV total return shows how the net asset value per share has performed over a period of time taking into account both capital returns and dividends paid to shareholders.
NAV Total return reflects the change in value of NAV plus the dividend paid to the shareholder.
Since the Company has not paid dividend the NAV total return is the same as the NAV per share as at year end 30 April 2018.
Share Price Total The Share Price Total Return Share price total return shows how the share price has Return performed over a period of time.
It assumes that dividends paid to shareholders are reinvested in the shares at the time the shares are quoted ex dividend.
Share price total return reflects the change in share price value plus the dividend paid to the shareholder.
Since the Company has not paid dividends the share price total return is the same as the price per ordinary share as at year end 30 April 2018.
