Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 119 GLOSSARY Investment terminology AAII Bear American Association of Individual Investors sentiment survey showing the mood of individual investors Bullish Neutral Bearish AAF Report A report prepared in accordance with Audit and Assurance Faculty guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Utilised within the review of internal controls.
AGM The Annual General Meeting, to be held at 2:30pm on Thursday, 6 September 2018 at The RAC Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
AIC Association of Investment Companies, the industry body for closed ended investment companies.
AIFMD Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Issued by the European Parliament in 2012 and 2013, the Directive requires that, while the Board of Directors of an Investment Trust remains fully responsible for all aspects of the Companys strategy, operations and compliance with regulations, all alternative investment vehicles AIFs in the European Union, must appoint a Depositary and an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
The Companys AIFM is Polar Capital LLP.
Benchmark The Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted, with the removal of relevant withholding taxes.
BREXIT The advisory public referendum which was held on 23 June 2016 in the United Kingdom to indicate whether voters wanted to remain or withdraw from membership of the European Union EU.
The referendum vote was cast in favour to leave the EU.
The process of actually leaving is termed BREXIT.
Closed-ended An Investment Company with a fixed issued ordinary share capital, the shares of which Investment Company are traded on an exchange at a price not necessarily related to the net asset value of the company and which can only be issued or bought back by the company in certain circumstances.
Custodian The Custodian is HSBC Bank plc, a financial institution responsible for safeguarding, worldwide, the listed securities and certain cash assets of the Company, as well as the income arising therefrom, through provision of custodial, settlement and associated services.
Depositary The Depositary is also HSBC Bank plc.
Under AIFMD rules the Company must appoint a Depositary whose duties in respect of investments, cash and similar assets include: safekeeping: verification of ownership and valuation: and cash monitoring.
Under the AIFMD rules, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safe-keeping duties.
The Depositarys oversight duties will include but are not limited to share buybacks, dividend payments and adherence to investment limits.
Derivative A contract between two or more parties, the value of which fluctuates in accordance with the value of an underlying security.
Examples of derivatives are Put and Call Options, Swap contracts, Futures and Contracts for Difference.
A derivative can be an asset or a liability and is a form of gearing because it can increase the economic exposure to shareholders.
Discount Premium The Companys share price is determined by market demand for the Company's shares.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to trade at a discount.
If the share price is higher than the NAV, this is described as trading at a premium.
Trading at a discount might indicate a higher level of sellers in the market while trading at a premium might indicate higher buying demand.
Fund Portfolio Ben Rogoff of Polar Capital LLP has been delegated responsibility for the creation of Manager the portfolio of investments subject to various parameters set by the Board of Directors.
GAAP The Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This includes UK Financial Reporting Standards FRS and International GAAP IFRS or International Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the European Union.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 120 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Gearing Calculated using the Association of Investment Companies definition.
Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior charges such as borrowings minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders funds, expressed as a percentage.
Investment Company Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
An Investment Company is defined as a company which invests its funds in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk.
Investment Trust Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
UK Corporation Tax law allows an taxation status Investment Company referred to in Tax law as an Investment Trust to be exempted from tax on its profits realised on investment transactions, provided it complies with certain rules.
These are similar to Section 833 above but further require that the Company must be listed on a regulated stock exchange and that it cannot retain more than 15% of income received.
The Directors' Report contains confirmation of the Companys compliance with this law and its consequent exemption from taxation on capital gains.
KPMG The Companys auditor is KPMG LLP, represented by John Waterson, Partner.
Leverage As defined under AIFMD rules, leverage is any method by which the exposure of an AIF is increased through borrowing of cash or securities or leverage embedded in derivative positions.
Leverage is broadly equivalent to gearing but is expressed as a ratio between the assets excluding borrowings and the net assets after taking account of borrowings.
Manager Polar Capital LLP Polar Capital, also appointed as AIFM.
The responsibilities and fees Investment Manager payable to Polar Capital are set out in the Directors Report.
Non-executive The Company is managed by a Board of Directors who are appointed by letter rather than Director a contract of employment, with the Company.
The Company does not have any executive Directors.
Remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report while the duties of the Board and the various Committees is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
PRIIPS The Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products regulations which came into force on 1 January 2018 in the UK and EU.
The regulations require generic pre-sale disclosure of investment product costs, risks and certain other matters.
SORP The Statement of Recommended Practice.
The financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance with the Investment Trust SORP issued by the AIC.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 121 For more information please visit our website: www.
co. uk Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Registered Office 16 Palace Street London SW1E 5JD Tel: 020 7227 2700 Fax: 020 7227 2799 www.
co. uk Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
