177 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar Dividends Dividend history annual reports and other statutory All enquiries concerning your shareholding Details of dividend payments made are communications as soon as they are should be directed to Link Asset Services: included within the Shareholder Information available.
For every shareholder that section of the Investors area of the actively registers their email address Link Asset Services Company website: www.
online, Premier Oil plc has pledged to The Registry donate 1 to Pure Leapfrogs carbon 34 Beckenham Road Tax on dividends up to April 2016 o se ing programme which supports Beckenham For any dividends paid up to April 2016, carbon reduction projects in Africa, Kent BR3 4TU shareholders would have received a tax India and other developing countries United Kingdom voucher showing a 10 per cent tax credit www.
representing the tax that has already been Telephone: UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost paid by the Company on pro ts generated.
To register for this service, please visit the 12p per minute plus your phone companys This 10 per cent tax credit can be o set share portal: www.
against any UK income tax due on dividend You will need your Investor Code IVC which If you are outside the United Kingdom, income.
For more information on the UK can be found on your share certi cate.
Calls outside dividend tax credit, please visit the HMRC registered, Premier Oil plc will communicate the United Kingdom will be charged at the website: www.
with you via email rather than post.
Tax on dividends from April 2016 Shareholder security Lines are open 9.00am 5.30pm Monday From 6 April 2016 the dividend tax credit Shareholders are advised to be cautious to Friday, excluding public holidays in was replaced by a new dividend allowance about any unsolicited financial advice, England and Wales.
in the form of a 0 per cent tax rate on the including o ers to buy Premier Oil plc first 5,000 of dividend income per year.
shares at in ated prices, or o ers of free Email: shareholderenquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk reports about Premier.
More information UK residents will pay tax on any dividends Share portal can be found at www.
uk consumers received over the 5,000 allowance at the As a shareholder you have direct access scams and in the Shareholder Information following rates: to an online share portal operated by Link section of the Investors area of the 7.5 per cent on dividend income within Asset Services at www.
the basic rate band You can access the share portal with your American Depositary Receipt programme Investor Code IVC which can be found on 32.5 per cent on dividend income within Premier Oil plc has a sponsored Level 1 your share certi cate.
The portal provides a the higher rate band American Depositary Receipt ADR range of services, free of charge, to help you 38.1 per cent on dividend income within programme which BNY Mellon administers to administer your shareholding quickly the additional rate band and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each and e ciently by allowing you to: ADR represents one Ordinary Share of Dividends received on shares held in an check your share balance: the Company.
The ADRs trade on the US Individual Savings Account ISA will change your address details: over-the-counter market under the symbol continue to be tax free.
When dividends are paid to choose to receive electronic shareholder E-communications shareholders, the Depositary converts communications: Shareholders have the option to receive such dividends into US dollars, net of fees set up or amend a dividend mandate so communications including annual reports and expenses, and distributes the net dividends can be paid directly to your and notices of meetings electronically.
This amount to ADR holders.
bank account: and is a faster, more environmentally friendly Registered Depositary Receipt holders buy and sell Premier Oil plc shares using and, for Premier Oil plc, a more costcan trade, access account balances and the dealing service operated by Link e ective way for shareholders to receive transaction history, nd answers to Share Deal.
frequently asked questions and download commonly needed forms online at www.
To speak directly to a BNY Mellon representative, please call Further details regarding 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269-2377 if you are all aspects of shareholder calling from within the United States.
If information can be found you are calling from outside the United on our website, States, please call 001-201-680-6825. www.
com You may also send an email inquiry to shrrelations@.
com or visit the website at www.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Printed by Park Communications on FSC This document is printed on Edixion Offset, Telephone: 020 7403 4099 certi ed paper.
a paper containing 100% Environmental Chlorine www.
com Free ECF virgin bre sourced from wellPark is an EMAS certi ed company and its managed, responsible, FSC certi ed forests Environmental Management System is certi ed and other controlled sources.
This is a certi ed CarbonNeutral publication.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, Emissions generated during the manufacture and 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further delivery of this product have been measured and use and, on average 99% of any waste associated reduced to net zero through a veri ed carbon with this production will be recycled.
offsetting project via The CarbonNeutral Company.
This is in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, the global leading standard for carbon neutrality.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements Registered Office Premier Oil plc th 4 Floor Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EN Registered No.
SC234781 Head Office Premier Oil plc 23 Lower Belgrave Street London SW1W 0NR Tel: 44 0 20 7730 1111 Email: premier@premier-oil.
com Full contact details for all of our advisers are available on the Company website: www.
