STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 175 GLOSSARY ALARP mmbbls million barrels as low as reasonably practicable AGM Annual General Meeting mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent bbl barrel mmscfd million standard cubic feet per day BBtud billion British thermal units per day MSA Matching Share Awards Bcf billion cubic feet mscf thousand standard cubic feet BCG Boston Consulting Group BMS Business Management System mt metric tonne boe barrels of oil equivalent MTC Medical treatment cases boepd barrels of oil equivalent per day ORB Order Book of Retail Bonds bopd barrel s of oil per day PSA Performance Share Awards BRINDEX PSC production sharing contract The Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies CAGR PVSP compound annual growth rate Premier Value Share Plan CGU RWDC cash generating unit Restricted work day cases CSR RSA Corporate social responsibility Restricted Share Award DD&A SAYE Depreciation, depletion and amortisation Save As You Earn DRR SIP Directors Remuneration Report Share Incentive Plan DTA Tcf Trillion cubic feet deferred tax asset EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation te Tonnes and amortisation E&E TRIR total recordable injury rate Exploration and evaluation EMTN TSR total shareholder return Euro Medium Term Notes EPA USPP Equity Pool Awards US Private Placement ETS 2P Proved and probable reserves Esmond Transportation System ExCo Executive Committee FEED front end engineering and design FPSO floating production, storage and offtake vessel FVOCI fair value through other comprehensive income FVTPL fair value through profit or loss GHG greenhouse gases GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSA Gas Sales Agreement HiPoR High Potential Incident Rate HSES health, safety, environment and security HSFO High Sulphur Fuel Oil IAS International Accounting Standard IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard IFRIC IFRS Interpretations Committee IOGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association ISA Individual Savings Account IVC Investor Code kbopd thousand barrels of oil per day kboepd thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day KPI key performance indicator LOPC loss of primary containment LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan LWDC Lost day work cases Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements GLOSSARYCONTINUED Non-IFRS measures The Group uses certain measures of performance that are not specifically defined under IFRS or other generally accepted accounting principles.
These non-IFRS measures are EBITDAX, Operating cost per barrel, DD&A per barrel, net debt and liquidity and are defined below.
EBITDAX Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairment, exploration spend and other one-off items.
In the current year it also excludes the gain on disposal recognised in the income statement.
This is a useful indicator of underlying business performance.
Operating cost per barrel Operating costs for the year divided by working interest production.
This is a useful indicator of ongoing operating costs from the Groups producing assets.
DD&A per barrel Depreciation and amortisation of oil and gas properties for the year divided by working interest production.
This is a useful indicator of ongoing rates of depreciation and amortisation of the Groups producing assets.
Net debt The net of cash and cash equivalents and long-term debt recognised on the balance sheet.
This is an indicator of the Groups indebtedness and capital structure.
Liquidity The sum of cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet, and the undrawn amounts available to the Group on our principal facilities, including letters of credit facilities, less our JV partners share of cash balances.
This is a key measure of the Groups financial flexibility and ability to fund day-to-day operations.
Each of the above non-IFRS measures are presented within the Financial Review with detail on how they are reconciled to the statutory financial statements.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 176
