STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 121 ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 31 December 2018 General information Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is Premier Oil plc, 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are oil and gas exploration and production in the Falkland Islands, Indonesia, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and Rest of the World.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars since that is the currency in which the majority of the Groups transactions are denominated.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted, other than as disclosed below, none of these have a material impact on the Groups annual results.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Clarification that measuring investees at fair value through profit or loss is an  choice Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Deletion of short-term exemptions for first-time adopters IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The overall impact on transition to IFRS 9 was an US$82 million increase in long-term debt and corresponding reduction in net assets.
This adjustment relates entirely to an adjustment to the Groups accounting for its refinancing that completed in July 2017.
On adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018, additional interest charges for facilities that were not deemed to be substantially modified have been expensed at the point of completion of the refinancing.
Under the previous accounting policies these additional interest charges had been expected to be amortised to the income statement on an effective interest rate basis over the life of the facilities.
Under IFRS 9, this would have increased the interest charge recognised in 2017 by US$82 million, with a corresponding reduction in net assets at 31 December 2017.
Going forward, this reduces Premiers forecast interest charges by c. US$20 million per annum.
The impact on the current period balance sheet is to increase long-term debt and reduce retained earnings by US$82 million.
As permitted by IFRS 9 comparatives have not been restated.
For certain line items in the balance sheet the closing balance at 31 December 2017 as previously reported and the opening balance at 1 January 2018 therefore differ see statement of changes in equity.
The Groups accounting policy has been revised to reflect the requirements of IFRS 9.
However, excluding the impact on the accounting treatment applied to the Groups 2017 refinancing, the standard has not had a significant impact.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Premier has elected to apply the modified retrospective approach to transition permitted by IFRS 15 under which comparative financial information is not restated.
Given the nature of Premier's oil marketing and gas sales arrangements, with control passing to the customer upon transfer of physical possession, Premier principally satisfies its performance obligations at a point in time as opposed to over a period of time.
Therefore, the accounting of revenue under IFRS 15 did not have a material effect on the Groups financial statements as at 1 January 2018 and so no transition adjustment has been made.
The Standard has not had a material impact on the Groups accounting policy in respect to revenue as previously disclosed in the 2017 financial statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers for 2018 is presented in Note 1.
Amounts presented for comparative periods in 2017 include revenues determined in accordance with the Groups previous accounting policies relating to revenue.
The total amounts presented do not, therefore, represent the revenue from contracts with customers that would have been reported for those periods had IFRS 15 been applied using a fully retrospective approach to transition but the differences are not material.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union : IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Amendments to IFRS 2 - Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 4 - Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contract Amendments to IFRS 9 - Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IAS 28 - Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle : IFRS 3 Business Combinations - Previously held interests in a joint operation Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle : IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements - Previously held interests in a joint operation Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle : IAS 12 Income Taxes - Income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle : IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - Borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIESCONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 Other than as disclosed below, the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards listed above will have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 to replace IAS 17 Leases and is effective from 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for all leases, with limited exceptions, under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under IAS 17.
Under IFRS 16, at the commencement date of a lease, a lessee is required to recognise a liability to make lease payments lease liability and an asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term right-of-use asset.
Lessees will be required to separately recognise the interest expense associated with the unwinding of the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset.
These costs will replace amounts previously recognised as operating expenditure in respect to an operating lease in accordance with IAS 17.
In applying IFRS 16 for the first time the Group has applied the short-term lease practical expedient by not recognising lease liabilities in respect to lease arrangements with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 January 2019.
During 2018, the Group performed a detailed assessment of the impact of IFRS 16.
The Group will adopt the modified retrospective approach to adoption on 1 January 2019, measuring right-of-use assets at an amount equal to their respective lease liability on adoption, with the cumulative effect of adopting the standard recognised at the date of initial application without restatement of comparative information.
IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the accounting treatment of our lease arrangements, with the most significant aspect being the recognition of a lease liability and associated right-of-use-asset in respect to FPSO vessels on the Catcher, Chim So and Huntington assets.
The most judgemental matter in Premiers adoption of IFRS 16 remains determining the appropriate accounting for a lease arrangement entered into by a lead operator as a sole signatory for the lease of equipment that will be used in a joint operation.
There is debate throughout the sector as to whether such contracts are to be reflected gross 100 per cent in the operators financial statements, or according to each joint operation partners proportionate share of the lease.
This issue was discussed in the context of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements in the September 2018 meeting of the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
The presence of a sub-lease between an operator and other parties of the joint arrangement was not addressed by IFRIC.
Given the nature and extent of comments raised in response to IFRICs tentative agenda decision, it is expected that IFRIC will discuss the matter further during their March meeting.
The Group will re-assess the appropriate accounting treatment in respect to this matter based on the outcome of IFRICs meeting.
Based on our impact assessment analysis, if Premier were to adopt gross accounting and recognise a sub-lease whereby Premier has entered into a lease arrangement on behalf of a joint operation as a sole signatory, the opening lease liability to be recognised on 1 January 2019 was US$908 million with an associated right of use asset of US$812 million and a net investment in sub-lease of US$96 million.
The net investment in sub-lease represents the share of lease liabilities of our joint operation partners on lease arrangements for which Premier has entered into on behalf of the joint operation as sole signatory in its role as operator.
The recognition of interest expense and depreciation in respect to leases liabilities and right-of-use assets under IFRS 16 whilst being offset by a reduction in operating expenditure charged to the income statement will result in an increase in Group EBITDA.
For the purposes of testing of the Group's financial covenants for the existing financing facilities, lease costs and associated liabilities will continue to be accounted in accordance with IAS 17.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value, including the equity and synthetic warrants.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Further information relating to the use of the going concern assumption, is provided in the Going Concern section of the Financial Review as set out on page 35.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when a company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All significant inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Critical accounting judgements the application of the going concern basis of accounting basis of preparation section above : carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets note 9 on page 140, in relation to whether commercial determination of an exploration prospect had been reached: carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 10 on page 142 regarding assessing assets for indicators of impairment: decommissioning costs note 17 on page 146, relating to the timing of when decommissioning would occur: and tax and recognition of deferred tax assets note 19 on page 152, relating to the extent to which future cash flows are included.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 122 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 123 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the Groups critical accounting estimates are set out in these financial statements and are considered to be: carrying value of property, plant and equipment note 10 on page 141, where the key assumptions relate to oil and gas prices expected to be realised, 2P production profiles and estimated future costs: decommissioning costs note 17 on page 146, where the key assumptions relate to the discount and inflation rates applied, applicable rig rates and expected timing of COP from each field: estimating the fair value of the equity and synthetic warrants recognised in the year note 18 on page 149, where key assumptions relate to expected timing of exercise and future share price volatility: and, tax and recognition of deferred tax assets note 19 on page 152, where key assumptions relate to oil and gas prices expected to be realised, 2P production profiles and estimated future costs.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs with any gains or losses recorded in the income statement, unless it is classified as equity.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as an excess of fair value over cost.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Interest in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is one in which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Most of the Groups activities are conducted through joint operations, whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
The Group reports its interests in joint operations using proportionate consolidation the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint operation are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
A joint venture, which normally involves the establishment of a separate legal entity, is a contractual arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the arrangements net assets.
The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
During 2018, the Group did not have any material interests in joint ventures.
Where the Group transacts with its joint operations, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint operation.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIESCONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 Interests in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a joint arrangement.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Discontinued operations A disposal group qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of an entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the statement of profit or loss.
Sales revenue and other income Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when or as the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer.
A good or service is transferred when the customer obtains control of that good or service.
The transfer of control of oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, and other items sold by the Group usually coincides with title passing to the customer and the customer taking physical possession.
The Group principally satisfies its performance obligations at a point in time and the amounts of revenue recognised relating to performance obligations satisfied over time are not significant.
Under the Groups joint operation arrangements, revenue is recognised according to the actual liftings.
However, where liftings do not match working interest or entitlement interest, an adjustment is made to cost of sales representing the amount due to from joint venture partners representing over underlift movements.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Oil and gas assets The Company applies the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
a Exploration and evaluation assets Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area are expensed as they are incurred.
Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets.
Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets.
Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the Groups vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and equipment used by the Companys Exploration Function are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible costs include directly attributable overhead, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are carried forward until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations, including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets, is then reclassified as development and production assets, once the project is deemed to be justified for development.
If, however, commercial reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 124 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 125 b Oil and gas properties Oil and gas properties are accumulated generally on a field-by-field basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets, as outlined in accounting policy a above.
The cost of oil and gas properties also includes the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly attributable overheads, finance costs capitalised, and the cost of recognising provision for future restoration and decommissioning.
Depreciation of producing assets The net book values of producing assets including pipelines are depreciated generally on a field-by-field basis using the unit-ofproduction method by reference to the ratio of production in the year and the related commercial proved and probable reserves of the field, taking into account future development expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation purposes, but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves.
c Impairment of oil and gas properties assets An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the carrying value of an oil and gas property may exceed its recoverable amount.
The carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the asset, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
The cash-generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash-generating unit where the cash inflows of each field are interdependent.
Any impairment identified is charged to the income statement.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the income statement, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
d Acquisitions, asset purchases and disposals Acquisitions of oil and gas properties are accounted for using the acquisition method when the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business.
Transactions involving the purchase of an individual field interest, or a group of field interests, that do not constitute a business, are treated as asset purchases irrespective of whether the specific transactions involve the transfer of the field interests directly or the transfer of an incorporated entity.
Accordingly, no goodwill and no deferred tax gross up arises, and the consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities purchased on an appropriate basis.
Proceeds on disposal are applied to the carrying amount of the specific intangible asset or oil and gas properties disposed of and any surplus is recorded as a gain on disposal in the income statement.
e Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full when the related facilities are installed.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
A corresponding amount equivalent to the provision is also recognised as part of the cost of the related oil and gas property.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is dealt with from the start of the financial year as an adjustment to the opening provision and the oil and gas property.
The unwinding of the discount is included as a finance cost.
Inventories Inventories, except for petroleum products, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Petroleum products and underlifts and overlifts of crude oil are measured at net realisable value using an observable year-end oil or gas market price, and included in inventories and other debtors or creditors respectively.
Tax The tax expense credit represents the sum of the tax currently payable recoverable and deferred tax movements during the year.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from any excess of fair value over cost, or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIESCONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2018 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The Group reassesses its unrecognised deferred tax asset each year taking into account changes in oil and gas prices, the Groups proven and probable reserve profile and forecast capital and operating expenditures.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Translation of foreign currencies In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies, being currencies other than the functional currency, are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate subsequent to the dates of the transactions is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets held at historic cost are translated at the date of purchase and are not retranslated.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are generally translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised as other comprehensive income or expense and are transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
When an overseas operation is disposed of, such translation differences relating to it are recognised as income or expense.
Group retirement benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit plan.
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Royalties Royalties are charged as production costs to the income statement in the year in which the related production is recognised as income.
Leasing Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly relating to the construction or production of a qualifying capital project under construction are capitalised and added to the project cost during construction until such time as the asset is substantially ready for its intended use, i. e. when it is capable of commercial production.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Trade payables Initial recognition of trade payables is at fair value.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 126 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 127 Derivative financial instruments a Classification of financial assets and financial liabilities IFRS 9 requires the use of two criteria to determine the classification of financial assets: the entitys business model for the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
The Standard goes on to identify three categories of financial assets - amortised cost: fair value through profit or loss FVTPL : and fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The accounting for the Groups financial liabilities remains largely the same as it was under IAS 39.
Similar to the requirements of IAS 39, IFRS 9 requires contingent consideration liabilities to be treated as financial instruments measured at fair value, with the changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It is determined by reference to quoted market prices adjusted for estimated transaction costs that would be incurred in an actual transaction, or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated discounted values of cash flows.
Under IFRS 9, embedded derivatives are no longer separated from a host financial asset.
Instead, financial assets are classified based on their contractual terms and the Groups business model.
The accounting for derivatives embedded in financial liabilities and in non-financial host contracts has not changed from that required by IAS 39. b Impairment IFRS 9 mandates the use of an expected credit loss model to calculate impairment losses rather than an incurred loss model, and therefore it is not necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.
The new impairment model applies to the Groups financial assets and loan commitments.
No changes to the impairment provisions were made on transition to IFRS 9.
The IFRS 9 impairment model requiring the recognition of expected credit losses, in contrast to the requirement to recognise incurred credit losses under IAS 39, has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Trade receivables are generally settled on a short time frame and the Groups other financial assets are due from counterparties without material credit risk concerns at the time of transition.
For trade receivables the Group has used the simplified approach as allowed under IFRS 9. c Hedge accounting The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 have been simplified and are more closely aligned to an entitys risk management strategy.
Under IFRS 9 all existing hedging relationships will qualify as continuing hedging relationships and the Group also intends to apply hedge accounting prospectively to certain of its commodity price risk management activities for which hedge accounting was not possible under IAS 39.
This had no impact on the 2018 opening balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents comprise funds held in term deposit accounts with an original maturity not exceeding three months.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The main assumptions are provided in note 21 on page 154.
Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not re-measured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate, at the time of issue, for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
Any difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
The Groups convertible bonds were exercised during the year see note 15 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
