CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Delegation of authority Board activity during the year Looking to the future, the Board considered Responsibility levels are communicated The Board held six scheduled meetings and approved the sanction of the Tolmount throughout the Group as part of the during the year and, in addition, an update Main field development in August, thereby Business Management System BMS conference call was held in between the securing the Groups medium-term UK and through an authorisation manual scheduled meetings.
No ad-hoc meetings production profile and realising further which sets out delegated authority levels, were held.
Details of the number of Board value from the 2016 E. ON transaction.
In segregation of duties and other control meetings held and individual attendance by terms of longer-term opportunities and, procedures.
Directors are shown in the table below.
following the Zama oil discovery in Mexico during 2017, the Board approved a proposal The BMS provides access to policies, Following completion of the Companys by the Exploration Team to participate in standards and procedures across the Group refinancing in 2017, a key focus for the Mexico's Licensing Round 3.1.
Following a and facilitates their regular review and Board in 2018 was to reduce indebtedness highly competitive bidding process, Premier update, thus ensuring that our internal and rebalance the Companys capital was awarded Blocks 11 and 13 in the Burgos control framework remains robust and is structure.
As part of this process, the Basin along with Block 30 in the prolific, effectively communicated across the Group.
Board approved an invitation to convertible shallow water part of the Sureste Basin.
The bondholders to accelerate the exchange During 2018, work continued to ensure the awards significantly enhance our existing of their outstanding bonds.
This process content of the BMS was both effective and acreage position in Mexico and have the was successfully completed in January balanced.
The key objectives for this review potential to deliver significant organic and, coupled with a mandatory conversion were to ensure: growth for our business in the longer term.
of the remaining bonds in September, Each BMS document is suitable for its reduced accounting net debt by Following a number of Board changes in intended purpose: US$181 million.
2017, the Board agreed the terms of Each BMS document is complied with: reference for an externally facilitated In addition, the Board regularly reviewed organisational health-check during the A programme for testing effectiveness the progress of the Companys ongoing year and, in June, the Boston Consulting of the BMS is in place: disposal programme with the sales of Group BCG was appointed to carry out The BMS features a simple and scalable Babbage, Esmond Transportation System the review.
BCG's work highlighted a hierarchy: and and Kakap assets all approved during the number of areas of strength on which the year.
These actions, coupled with the A minimum set of rules are in place that Company can build over the medium-term Catcher field reaching plateau production do not stifle innovation and creativity.
and, at its December meeting, the Board during the year, have meant that the approved a high-level action plan presented During 2019, the development of the BMS Groups balance sheet has been significantly by ExCo and BCG to address the points will focus on simplification and adoption strengthened with net debt reduced by raised.
"Further details regarding the BCG with the objective being to create a US$393 million since the end of 2017. review can be found in the Nomination consistent and distinctive ""Premier way Committee Report."
An update on the progress of this project will be provided in next year's Annual Report.
Meetings held during 2018 Jan 18 Feb 18 Mar 18 Apr 18 May 18 Jun 18 Jul 18 Aug 18 Sept 18 Oct 18 Nov 18 Dec 18 Board meeting Board update call Management presentations AGM The number of meetings of the Board held during 2018 and individual attendance by Directors Current Directors Scheduled 100% Robin Allan 6 6 83% Dave Blackwood 5 6 100% Anne Marie Cannon 6 6 100% Tony Durrant 6 6 100% Roy A Franklin 6 6 100% Jane Hinkley 6 6 100% Iain Macdonald 6 6 100% Richard Rose 6 6 100% Mike Wheeler 6 6 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 66 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 67 Our strategic pillars Operating in a safe and Access to capital and responsible manner financial liquidity Focused on high quality Effective organization assets with commercially sustained by the The following table shows some of the areas covered by the advantaged positions right people Board during the year: Link to Subject Cross reference strategic objectives Shareholder and lender engagement The Chairman met with major shareholders to discuss their views on the Company and its major projects.
Shareholder Received and discussed feedback from roadshows presentations to investors by the CEO and Finance Director.
engagement activity see page 70 Met with major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative bodies to discuss implementation of the Companys Remuneration Policy and outcomes.
Directors Remuneration Report see pages 79 to 107 Corporate strategy Reviewed the corporate asset Companys business Reviewed and discussed monthly Reviewed potential disposal model and strategy database and discussed reports from the Companys and acquisition opportunities.
see pages 10 to 13 opportunities within the existing business units on the status of Reviewed and approved the portfolio to create value and grow agreed objectives to deliver sales of the Babbage, Kakap Chief Executive Officers the production base.
Review see pages 18 to 21 Finance and expenditure Regularly reviewed the status of Held a separate workshop to Reviewed and approved the Financial Review see pages 30 to 35 the Groups banking covenants.
consider the Groups emerging Companys Annual Report and Considered proposals for a future risks.
Financial Statements for the year Financial Statements refinancing of the Groups debt Received reports from the Audit ended 31 December 2017. see pages 112 to 176 facilities.
and Risk Committee on the Reviewed and approved the Reviewed and approved the 2019 effectiveness of the Groups risk Groups insurance arrangements.
management and internal control Reviewed and approved the systems.
HSES and risk management Reviewed and discussed the Groups Risk Management see Held a separate workshop to Reviewed and approved the risk profile and, in particular, the pages 36 to 41 consider the Groups emerging Companys policies on anti-slavery Groups principal risks.
and human trafficking and tax.
Principal Risks see Reviewed 2018 corporate HSES KPIs Received reports from the Audit Reviewed the Groups risk pages 38 to 39 and HSES plan.
and Risk Committee on the management and internal control Corporate Reviewed and discussed HSES effectiveness of the Groups risk framework.
management and internal control Review see pages systems.
42 to 55 Corporate governance Considered the new UK Corporate Governance section of Reviewed the Schedule of Matters Conducted an externally facilitated Governance Code and agreed a the Annual Report see Reserved for the Board.
evaluation of the Board and its pages 56 to 111 plan to ensure compliance from Engaged the Boston Consulting Committees.
Group to carry out a 'health check' In consultation with the Reviewed the terms of reference of the Group's organisational Nomination Committee, reviewed for the Audit and Risk, Nomination structure and operating model.
the independence of Non-Executive and Remuneration Committees.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Reviewed ethical performance and control systems.
Corporate Reviewed the Groups Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Policy.
Responsibility Review see pages 42 to 55 Considered bi-monthly updates in respect of environmental KPIs.
Reviewed and approved the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report.
Succession planning and appointments Monitored progress against the Companys succession plan for Non-Executive Directors.
Nomination Committee Report see pages In consultation with Committee chairmen, considered and approved changes to Board Committee membership.
77 and 78 Reviewed proposals from management on the Groups leadership and organisational structure.
Employees Reviewed and approved proposals for awards to the wider employee population under the Companys share Directors Remuneration Report see pages award schemes.
79 to 107 Considered proposals for workforce engagement mechanisms in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Governance section of Reviewed the results from the employee engagement survey.
the Annual Report see pages 56 to 111 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board performance evaluation During the year, the Board undertook an externally facilitated performance evaluation exercise.
The previous externally Meetings In-depth facilitated performance evaluation was with Directors management and senior undertaken in 2016. presentations executives Detailed surveys were compiled with input from all relevant internal stakeholders.
Topics included: Board size and composition One-to-one Site visits Board expertise meetings to business Board dynamics with external units advisers Management and focus of meetings Directors Board support and Committees induction and Strategic oversight development Risk management and internal control Succession planning and human Regular resource management briengs on Priorities for change Key corporate governance governance and legal The evaluation was carried out by Lintstock documents issues Limited Lintstock supported by the Company Secretary.
Lintstock has been the provider of the Companys insider list Board resource management software since August 2013 library but other than this and the 2016 performance evaluation, has not undertaken any other work of any kind for the Board or the Company.
The evaluation included individual Director performance reviews, a review of the work of the Board and each of the Board Committees, and a review of the Board appointments Induction of new Directors Chairmans performance.
Premier is an international business New Directors receive a full, formal and and has to manage a variety of political, tailored induction to the Company.
Surveys were issued and one-to-one technical and commercial risks.
It is interviews were held with each Director The induction programme consists of: crucial therefore that the Board has the and attendees of the Board Committees.
a comprehensive briefing session with appropriate mix of skills, knowledge and Independent reports were then prepared the Company Secretary to discuss the experience as well as independence to by Lintstock and were reviewed by the proposed induction programme and enable it to meet these challenges.
Chairman and the Company Secretary.
to provide details of Board and To this end, the Nomination Committee governance procedures: The results of the evaluation were then reviews the structure, size and composition condensed into reports by the Chairman an introduction to the Companys online of the Board and makes recommendations and discussed by the Board and each of the resource centre for Directors, through to the Board with regard to any changes Committees.
An action plan was then which they can access key corporate that are deemed necessary with due regard drawn up by the Chairman and Company governance documents, including details for the benefits of diversity on the Board, Secretary for the Board and actions were of the policies and procedures forming including gender diversity.
agreed for each Committee with the part of the Groups governance relevant Committee Chair.
When recruiting new Directors, the framework: a dedicated resource library Nomination Committee prepares a containing comprehensive information 2017 performance evaluation description of the role and capabilities on key projects: copies of past Board Actions identified for 2018 from the 2017 required for a particular appointment in the presentations: and copies of external Board performance evaluation included context of the existing skills, experience, communications such as investor conducting a full review of Committee independence and knowledge on the Board presentations, annual reports and composition and undertaking an externally and the time commitment expected.
corporate social responsibility reports: facilitated Board performance evaluation one-to-one meetings with each of the in 2018.
The review of Committee Further details regarding succession Executive Directors, members of senior composition was conducted by the planning can be found in the Nomination management and external advisers: and Nomination Committee in November Committee Report on pages 77 and 78. and, following an assessment of the skills, meetings with other functional knowledge and independence of the representatives as requested by Directors.
Non-Executive Directors, the Committee Shareholders are given the opportunity concluded that the composition of the to meet with new Directors upon request Boards Committees remained appropriate.
or at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, in the As noted above, an externally facilitated case of the Chairman, meetings are offered evaluation process was conducted during to the Companys major shareholders.
the year, thereby closing the other key action from the 2017 review.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 68 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 69 Board development Information and support For any term beyond six years for a As part of the Boards annual rolling All Non-Executive Directors have access to Non-Executive Director, performance is agenda, in-depth management the Companys senior management between subject to a particularly rigorous review.
presentations are planned throughout the Board meetings and the Board aims to hold It was agreed that Jane Hinkley, who has year.
These sessions are held outside main at least one meeting each year in one of served as a Director for over eight years Board meetings and are designed to give the the business units to allow Non-Executive and will be standing for re-election, Board insight into key aspects of the Directors to meet and engage with local continues to provide sound, independent Companys operations, its development staff.
In addition, the continuing judgement and to make a significant projects and strategy.
The presentations development of Board members is contribution to the Board and its provide Directors with the opportunity to supported through in-depth management Committees.
All Non-Executive Directors discuss matters with members of senior presentations into specific business areas as standing for election or re-election are management in an informal setting.
well as presentations by management and considered to be independent.
regular updates on changes to the legal and During 2018, management presentations regulatory landscape.
Following satisfactory performance were given on: the corporate asset database effectiveness reviews, the Nomination and opportunities within the existing All Directors have access to the Company Committee recommended and the Board portfolio: exploration: the Sea Lion project: Secretary and, if required, can take legal approved that each of the Directors be put and risk management.
advice at the Companys expense.
forward for election or re-election at the Directors also have access to an online Regular updates are provided to all 2019 AGM.
Directors on governance and legal matters.
Details of the Executive Directors service Information is also provided on relevant Election and re-election of Directors contracts and the Non-Executive Directors external training courses available to In accordance with the Code, Directors are letters of appointment are set out in the further complement Directors skills submitted for re-election at regular Directors Remuneration Report on pages 89 and knowledge.
intervals subject to continued satisfactory and 91 respectively.
It is the Companys current Formal procedures are in place to enable policy to submit all Directors for annual The main responsibilities of each Board role individual Board members to take election or re-election by shareholders.
are set out on page 64 of this report.
Full independent advice at the Companys biographies can be found on pages 60 to 63. expense where appropriate.
In addition, Directors appointed since the These set out the skills, knowledge and last Annual General Meeting are required experience of each Director as well as to step down at the next Annual General current and previous appointments.
Meeting following their appointment and stand for election by shareholders.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Conflicts of interest Communications with shareholders Investor contact by type Under statute, a Director has a duty to There is regular dialogue with institutional One-to-one meetings avoid a situation in which he or she has, investors through meetings, presentations Group meetings or may have, a direct or indirect interest and conferences.
Scheduled presentations that conflicts, or potentially may conflict, are given to analysts and investors with the interests of the Company.
following the Full-Year and Half-Year 18 Results which are broadcast live via the 194 Formal procedures are in place to ensure Companys website www.
com that the Boards power to authorise and at other ad-hoc events.
conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of Directors is operated effectively.
The Approximately 200 meetings were held with Board is satisfied that during 2018 these investors and prospective investors during procedures were enforced and adhered 2018.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer to appropriately.
and Finance Director are the Directors primarily responsible for engaging with Power of Directors and process for shareholders.
They ensure that other amending Articles of Association members of the Board receive full reports of Details regarding the Companys Articles these discussions.
The Board also receives of Association and any amendment thereto, copies of analyst and broker briefings and including the powers of Directors under shareholder sentiment reports prepared by Investor contact by location of investor the Articles, are included in the Directors the Investor Relations team.
The Senior United Kingdom Report on page 108.
Independent Director is available to US Stakeholder engagement shareholders in the event that they have Europe Engagement with all of our stakeholders concerns which contact with the Chairman, Other remains a priority for the Board.
By Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director maintaining good dialogue, we ensure that has failed to resolve, or where such contact our objectives are understood and that we would be inappropriate.
Non-Executive 122 25 receive regular feedback on our strategy, Directors are expected to attend meetings, if performance and governance.
This enables requested, with major shareholders.
us to build confidence amongst our Extensive information about the Groups stakeholders in the Boards ability to activities is provided in the Annual Report oversee the Companys strategy and and Financial Statements, the Half-Year 42 address the immediate challenges faced Results and other trading statements and by the business.
press releases, all of which are available on our website.
The Companys website also As part of the steps being taken by the provides detailed information on the 43 Board to ensure compliance with the 2018 Groups activities.
Information regarding UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board the Companys share capital, including undertook a stakeholder mapping exercise details of significant shareholders, is in October to review: included in the Directors Report on pages who our material stakeholders are: 108 to 110. the types of engagement undertaken The Remuneration Committee Chairman with them: and Chairman of the Board met with major who engages with these stakeholders at a shareholders in advance of the 2018 AGM to Board and Senior Management level: and discuss, among other things, the Companys issues likely to be relevant to the Remuneration Policy and shareholders stakeholder groups.
Further detail on stakeholder engagement Despite this consultation with major and how stakeholders' interests have been shareholders, a significant number of votes considered in board discussions and were received against the resolution to decision-making will be included in the approve the Directors Remuneration Companys 2019 Annual Report.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee analysed the voting outcome and wrote to 30 of the top 40 institutional shareholders who voted, both for and against the Remuneration Report, to invite them to discuss their views on the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Responses to these letters were received from a small number of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee has considered this feedback when determining remuneration outcomes for 2018 and will continue to do so during the formulation of the Remuneration Policy during 2019 and 2020.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 70 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 71 The primary method of ongoing The Company has posted guidelines on its communication with shareholders is the website, advising shareholders of how to Investors section of the Companys website.
recognise and deal with potential share This contains key information such as scams.
Shareholders are advised to be reports and financial results, investor extremely wary of any unsolicited advice presentations, share price information, or offers and only to deal with financial regulatory news announcements and services firms that are authorised by the information on Premiers AGM.
More information can be found in the In accordance with current regulations, Shareholder Information section of the the Company uses its website as its default Investors section of the Companys website.
method of publication for statutory documents in order to reduce printing Enquiries from individuals on matters costs and help reduce our impact on the relating to their shareholding and the environment.
All shareholders are offered business of the Group are welcomed and the choice of receiving shareholder shareholders are encouraged to attend the documentation, including the Annual AGM to discuss the progress of the Group.
Report, electronically or in paper format, as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
Premier promotes the use of online shareholder services via the Companys online share portal www.
Using this service, shareholders are able to access information about their shareholding, update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the Companys Registrar.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to general meetings.
The share portal encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by email, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have actively registered receive an email notifying them when the Company has added a statutory document to its website.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
