Glossary of terms Adviser is Nexus Tradeco Limited.
EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding own shares held, the MtM value of derivative financial Building Research Establishment Environmental instruments and the convertible bond fair value movement.
Assessment Method BREEAM assesses the sustainability of buildings against a range of criteria.
EPRA NAV per share is the balance sheet net assets excluding own shares held, the MtM value of derivative financial instruments Clinical Commissioning Groups CCGs are the groups and the convertible bond fair value movement, divided by the ofGPs and other healthcare professionals that are responsible number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
for designing local health services in England with effect from 1April 2013.
EPRA vacancy rate is, as a percentage, the ERV of vacant space in the Groups property portfolio divided by ERV of the Company and or Parent is Primary Health Properties PLC PHP.
Direct property costs comprise ground rents payable under Equivalent yield true and nominal is a weighted average head leases, void costs, other direct irrecoverable property ofthe net initial yield and reversionary yield and represents expenses, rent review fees and valuation fees.
thereturn a property will produce based upon the timing of District Valuer DV is the District Valuer Service being theincome received.
The true equivalent yield assumes rents thecommercial arm of the Valuation Office Agency VOA.
are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent Itprovides professional property advice across the public assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
sector and in respect of primary healthcare represents NHS Estimated rental value ERV is the external valuers opinion bodies on matters of valuation, rent reviews and initial rents as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could onnew developments.
reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent Dividend cover is the number of times the dividend payable review of a property.
on an annual basis is covered by EPRA earnings.
Exchange price is 116% of the share price at the date of issue.
Earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent receivable.
EPS is the profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during Group is Primary Health Properties PLC PHP and its subsidiaries.
HSE or the Health Service Executive is the executive agency European Public Real Estate Association EPRA is a of the Irish government responsible for health and social services realestate industry body, which has issued Best Practice for people living in Ireland.
Recommendations in order to provide consistency and IFRS is International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
EPRA cost ratio is the ratio of net overheads and operating IFRS or Basic net asset value per share IFRS NAV are the expenses against gross rental income with both amounts balance sheet net assets, excluding own shares held, divided excluding ground rents payable.
Net overheads and operating by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
expenses relate to all administrative and operating expenses, net of any service fees, recharges or other income specifically Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable intended to cover overhead and property expenses.
iscovered by net rental income.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment Interest rate swap is a contract to exchange fixed payments and development property revaluations, gains losses on disposals, for floating payments linked to an interest rate, and is generally changes in the fair value of financial instruments and associated used to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates.
close-out costs and their related taxation.
122 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance F Fiin nanc anciia all st sta at te em me en nt ts s Further information MSCI IPD is the Investment Property Databank Limited which Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease and provides performance analysis for most types of real estate and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current market produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
MSCI IPD Healthcare is the Investment Property Databanks Rent roll is the passing rent being the total of all the contracted UK Annual Healthcare Property Index.
rents reserved under the leases.
MSCI IPD Total Return is calculated as the change in capital Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield which the initial value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, yield will rise to once the rent reaches the ERV and when expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, theproperty is fully let.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV as calculated by MSCI IPD.
JCRA is J. C. Rathbone Associates Limited.
Retail Price Index RPI is the official measure of the generallevel of inflation as reflected in the retail price of a London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR is the interest rate basket of goods and services such as energy, food, petrol, charged by one bank to another for lending money.
housing, household goods, travelling fare, etc.
RPI is commonly Loan to Value LTV is the ratio of net debt to the total value computed on a monthly and annual basis.
RICS is the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Mark to Market MTM is the difference between the book RPI linked leases are those leases which have rent reviews value of an asset or liability and its market value.
which are linked to changes in the RPI.
Net initial yield is the annualised rents generated by an Special reserve is a distributable reserve.
asset, after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable property outgoings, expressed as a percentage Total expense ratio TER is calculated as total administrative ofthe asset valuation after notional purchasers costs.
costs for the year divided by the average total asset value during the year.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the periodafter payment of direct property costs.
Net rental Total property return is the overall return generated by income is quoted on an accounting basis.
It is calculated as the net rental income generated by the portfolio plus the change in market NHSPS is NHS Property Services Limited, the company wholly values, divided by opening property assets plus additions.
owned and funded by the Department of Health, which, as of m 1April 2013, has taken on all property obligations formerly borne by Primary Care Trusts.
Net rental income 76.4 Revaluation surplus and profit on sales 36.1 Parity value is calculated based on dividing the convertible bond value by the exchange price.
112.5 Opening property assets 1,361.9 Property Income Distribution PID is the required distribution of income as dividends under the REIT regime.
Weighted additions in the period 45.5 Itiscalculated as 90% of exempted net income.
1,407.4 Real Estate Investment Trust REIT is a listed property Total property return 8.0% company which qualifies for and has elected into a tax regime, which exempts qualifying UK profits, arising from property rental income and gains on investment property disposals, from corporation tax, but which has a number of specific requirements.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 123 Glossary of terms continued Total NAV return is calculated as the movement in EPRA netassets for the period plus the dividends paid, divided byopening EPRA net assets.
NAV At 31 December 2017 100.70 At 31 December 2018 105.10 Increase decrease 4.40 Add: Dividends paid 23 02 2018 Q1 interim 1.35 25 05 2018 Q2 interim 1.35 24 08 2018 Q3 interim 1.35 24 11 2018 Q4 interim 1.35 Total shareholder return 9.80 Total shareholder return is calculated as the movement in theshare price for the period plus the dividends paid, divided by the opening share price.
Weighted average facility maturity is calculated by multiplying each tranche of Group debt by the remaining period to its maturity and dividing the result by total Group debt in issue at the year end.
Weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT is the average lease term remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income.
Yield on cost is the estimated annual rent of a completed development divided by the total cost of development, including site value and finance costs expressed as a percentage return.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in basis points inthe yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio over agiven period.
Yield compression is a commonly used term forareduction in yields.
124 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Primary Health Properties PLCs commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Claro Silk, an FSC Mix Certified paper, which ensures that all virgin pulp is derived from well-managed forests and other responsible sources.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Primary Health Properties PLC Registered office: 5th Floor, Greener House 6668 Haymarket London SW1Y 4RF Website: www.
co. uk Registered in England Number: 3033634
