Shareholder information Corporate calendar 2019 Equiniti Financial Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
As with all stock market Annual General Meeting 11 June 2019 investments, the price of shares can go down as well as up and AGM statement 11 June 2019 on sale investors may not get back the full amount they invested.
Announcement of half year results July 2019 Taxation status Dividends The REIT Regulations require a REIT to distribute at least 90% of its exempt rental income as calculated for tax purposes as The Company intends to make quarterly dividend payments a PID.
The proposed timetable for the first quarterly dividend in 2019 is: PIDs are paid out under deduction of withholding tax at the basic rate, currently 20%.
Certain classes of shareholders, including Payment of quarterly dividend UK companies, charities, local authorities and UK pension schemes, recorddate 3 January 2019 22 February 2019 may receive PIDs without deduction of withholding tax, if a valid claim is lodged with the Company by a qualifying shareholder.
Distributions from the Company may comprise PIDs see below, Shareholders who wish to apply for a tax exemption form ordinary cash dividends or a combination of the two.
PIDs have should contact the registrar.
been paid by the Group since 1 January 2007.
The above is a general guide only and shareholders who have Payment of dividends any doubt about their tax position should consult their own If you would like your dividend interest paid directly into your appropriate independent professional adviser.
bank or building society account, you should write to the registrar including details of your nominated account.
Although this will Registrar enable your dividend interest to be paid directly into your account, The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
In the event of any queries your tax voucher will be sent to your registered address.
regarding your holding of shares, please contact the registrar free of charge on 0371 384 2030 lines are open 8.30 a. m. to Scrip dividend scheme 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday, or in writing to: Equiniti, Aspect The optional scrip dividend scheme enables shareholders to House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
receive new Ordinary Shares in PHP instead of cash dividends Changes of name or address must be notified to the registrar without incurring dealing costs, stamp duty or stamp duty in writing.
reserve tax by electing to take a scrip dividend instead of a cash dividend.
Shareholders can obtain information about the Equiniti Shareview dealing services scrip dividend scheme from the Company or the registrar.
A quick and easy share dealing service is available to either sell or buy PHP shares.
To deal online or by telephone all you need Investment account is your shareholder reference number, full postcode and date of The Company has made arrangements for Equiniti Financial birth.
Your shareholder reference number can be found on your Services Limited to provide an investment account to allow latest dividend statement.
For further information on this service, lump sum and regular savings to facilitate the purchase of the or to buy and sell shares, please contact Equiniti customer services Companys Ordinary Shares.
Detail and the forms required for 0345 300 0430 8.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. Monday to Friday or this service can be accessed from the Companys website or access www.
For details of the service please contact: Equiniti, PO Box 4605, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
120 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018
