01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  E Further accounting policies E1 Other significant accounting policies In addition to the critical accounting polices presented in note A3.1, the following detailed accounting policies are adopted by the Group to prepare the consolidated financial statements.
These accounting policies are applied consistently for all years presented and normally are not subject to change unless new accounting standards, interpretations or amendments are introduced by the IASB.
a Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates those investees it is deemed to control.
The Group has control over an investee if all three of the following are met: 1 it has power over an investee: 2 it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and 3 it has ability to use its power over the investee to affect its own returns.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those investees that the Group controls.
The majority of the Groups subsidiaries are corporate entities, but the Groups insurance operations also invest in a number of limited partnerships.
The Group performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between the Group and an investee.
Where the Group is deemed to control an entity it is treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities are consolidated.
Where the Group holds a minority share in an entity, with no control over the entity, the investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Entities consolidated by the Group include Qualifying Partnerships as defined under the UK Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 the Partnerships Act.
Some of these limited partnerships have taken advantage of the exemption under regulation 7 of the Partnerships Act from the financial statements requirements.
This is under regulations 4 to 6, on the basis that these limited partnerships are dealt with on a consolidated basis in these financial statements.
ii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are joint arrangements arising from a contractual agreement whereby the Group and other investors have joint control of the net assets of the arrangement.
In a number of these arrangements, the Groups share of the underlying net assets may be less than 50 per cent but the terms of the relevant agreement make it clear that control is jointly exercised between the Group and the third party.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but it does not control.
Generally it is presumed that the Group has significant influence if it holds between 20 per cent and 50 per cent voting rights of the entity.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Group accounts for its investments in joint ventures and associates by using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of profit or loss of its joint ventures and associates is recognised in the income statement and its share of movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The equity method of accounting does not apply to investments in associates and joint ventures held by the Groups insurance or investment funds.
This includes venture capital business, mutual funds and unit trusts and which, as allowed by IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, are carried at fair value through profit or loss.
iii Structured entities Structured entities are those that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
Voting rights relate to administrative tasks.
Relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
The Group invests in structured entities such as: Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs : Unit Trusts UTs : Limited partnerships: Variable interest entities: Investment vehicles within separate accounts offered through variable annuities: Collateralised debt obligations: Mortgage-backed securities: and Similar asset-backed securities.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 313
