01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  How we operate This section tells you more about the Groups governance, operation of the Board and Board roles.
Group governance Business units manage and report As part of the Groups focus on corporate Corporate governance codes compliance with the Group-wide responsibility, the boards of each of our statement of compliance mandatory requirements and standards Material Subsidiaries considers updates The Company has dual primary listings in set out in the Manual through annual on corporate responsibility activities and London premium listing and Hong Kong attestations.
This includes compliance with spend in their communities on an annual and has therefore adopted a governance our risk management framework, details of basis.
This has created a layer of structure based on the UK and Hong Kong which are set out on pages 107 and 108 of independent scrutiny to help ensure those Corporate Governance Codes the UK and this report.
boards are close to the community and HK Codes.
charitable activities of their businesses.
The content of the Manual is reviewed The Board confirms that, for the year under regularly, reflecting the developing nature Regulatory environment review, the Company has complied with all of both the Group and the markets in which Until the demerger is completed, the the principles and provisions of the 2016 it operates, with significant changes on key Prudential Regulation Authority PRA will UK Code, which was applicable for the policies reported to the relevant Board continue to be the Group-wide supervisor reporting period.
The PRA will be the Groupbeen applying the 2018 UK Code from wide supervisor of M&GPrudential Material Subsidiary governance 1 January 2019. following the demerger.
After the demerger, Prudential has appointed independent Prudentials individual insurance and asset The Company has also complied with the non-executive directors to the boards of its management businesses will continue to be provision of the HK Code other than as four Material Subsidiary entities within the supervised at a local entity level and local follows: Provision B.
1.2 d of the HK Code Group: Jackson National Life Insurance statutory capital requirements will continue requires companies, on a comply or explain Company, M&G Group Limited, Prudential to apply.
The Supervisory College, made up basis, to have a remuneration committee Corporation Asia Limited and The of the authorities overseeing the principal which makes recommendations to a main Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
regulated activities in jurisdictions where board on the remuneration of nonEach Material Subsidiary has a board of the future Prudential Group will operate, executive directors.
This provision is not directors led by an independent chair and has made a collective decision that Hong compatible with supporting provision D. 2.3 an audit committee and risk committee, Kongs Insurance Authority IA should of the UK Code which recommends that composed entirely of independent become the new Group-wide supervisor the board determines the remuneration of non-executives.
Prudential has Dialogue between the Group Chair, Group chosen to adopt a practice in line with the Interactions with our regulators shape our Risk Committee Chair and Group Audit recommendations of the UK Code.
governance framework and the Chairman Committee Chair and their counterparts and Group Chief Executive play a leading The UK Code is available from: in the Material Subsidiaries provides an role in representing the Group to regulators www.
Over the course and ensuring our dialogue with them is of 2018 and early 2019, the Board of The HK Code is available from: constructive.
M&GPrudential has been developed by www.
hk its independent Chairman, Mr Mike Evans.
Stakeholder engagement Our governance framework Mr Evans and the Group Chair have The Board has identified the Groups key The Group has established a governance maintained dialogue throughout.
stakeholders as including customers, framework for the business which is investors, employees, regulators, civil An evaluation of the board, audit and risk designed to promote appropriate society, the media and suppliers.
committees of each Material Subsidiary behaviours across the Group.
was carried out in respect of 2018 which During the year, the Board considered The governance framework includes the concluded that each of those boards and workforce engagement activities in light key mechanisms through which the Group committees operated effectively during of the provisions of the revised UK Code sets strategy, plans its objectives, monitors the year.
An assessment of whether each published in July 2018.
In 2019 the Group performance, considers risk management, business unit audit and risk committee will be putting in place procedures to help holds business units to account for has fulfilled their mandates is conducted ensure that workforce practices and delivering on business plans and arranges annually and the results reported to the policies are consistent with the Groups governance.
Group Audit Committee and Group Risk values and support its long-term Committee.
sustainable success and that the workforce The Group Governance Manual the voice is understood at Board level.
Manual sets out the policies and The Nomination & Governance Committee procedures under which the Group is responsible for oversight of governance As a major institutional investor, the Board operates, taking into account statutory, arrangements for the Material Subsidiaries.
recognises the importance of maintaining regulatory and other relevant matters.
This and other activities of the Nomination an appropriate level of two-way & Governance Committee during 2018 are communication with shareholders.
described on pages 109 to 114. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 95 How we operate continued The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for further shareholder engagement, for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and, along with other members of the Board, to answer any questions.
All Directors then in office attended the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the 2019 Annual General Meeting are available at www.
co. uk investors A full programme of engagement with executive Directors are available to meet The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders, potential investors and with major shareholders on request.
shareholders for the long-term sustainable analysts, in the UK and overseas, is success of the business through: Shareholder feedback and key issues from conducted each year by the Group Chief these meetings is communicated to the Approving the Groups long-term Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, Board.
Details of when feedback was strategic objectives, annual budgets led by the Investor Relations team.
A discussed by the Board in 2018 can be and business plans, as recommended conference for investors and analysts is found in the table on page 97. by the Group Chief Executive and any held on a regular basis, including in-depth material changes to them: business presentations and opportunities The Annual General Meeting is an for attendees to meet with members of opportunity for further shareholder Monitoring the implementation of the Board and senior executives and an engagement, for the Chairman to explain strategic objectives, annual budgets opportunity for the executive team to the Companys progress and, along with and business plans: communicate progress and strategy other members of the Board, to answer Establishing the Companys purpose, outside of the financial reporting cycle.
All Directors then in office values and strategy and satisfying itself most recent event was held in November attended the 2018 Annual General that these are aligned with the Groups 2018 and feedback was provided to the Meeting.
culture: and Board in November and December 2018.
Details of the 2019 Annual General Assessing and monitoring culture, The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Meeting are available at including alignment with policy, Officer and Investor Relations team also www.
co. uk investors practices, behaviours and risk appetite.
attend major financial services conferences More details of stakeholder engagement to present to, and meet with, the Specific matters are reserved for decision with our communities and societies can Companys shareholders.
by the Board, including: be found in our Corporate responsibility In 2018, as part of the investor relations review on pages 70 to 86 and on our Approving dividend policy and programme, over 370 meetings were held website at www.
co. uk determination of dividends: with more than 300 individual institutional responsibility approach.
Approval of strategic projects: investors in London, continental Europe, Operation of the Board the USA and Asia.
Approval of the three-year business How the Board leads the Group and financial plan: The Company holds an ongoing The Group is headed by a Board led by programme of regular contact with major Approval of the Groups full and the Chairman.
shareholders, conducted by the Chairman, half-yearly results announcements and The Board is currently made up of 16 to discuss their views on the Companys any other periodic financial reporting: Directors, of which a majority, excluding governance.
The Senior Independent Responsibility for an effective system of the Chairman, are independent NonDirector offers meetings to major internal control and risk management: executive Directors.
Biographical details shareholders as needed and this year of each of the Directors can be found carried out a consultation specifically on Overseeing the Groups corporate on pages 89 to 94 and further details of the Chairmans tenure.
Engagement with social responsibility programmes: and the roles of the Chairman, Group Chief institutional investors on the Directors Ensuring effective engagement with, Executive, Senior Independent Director, Remuneration Policy and implementation and encouraging participation from, Committee Chairs and the Non-executive is led by the Remuneration Committee key stakeholder groups.
Directors can be found on pages 101 Chair on an annual basis.
96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Key areas of focus how the Board spent its time The Board held 10 meetings during 2018.
In addition to those meetings set out in the table below, the Board held a separate two-day strategy event in June and two Board workshops focused on the demerger.
In addition to meetings, the Board receives a monthly update report from management.
1 Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Dec Strategy and implementation Approval and review of strategic priorities l Strategic priorities monitoring l l l l Approval of three-year operating plan l 2 Strategic projects l l l l l l l l l Group Chief Executives report l l l l l l l l Report from Committee Chairs Audit l l l l l l Nomination & Governance l l l Remuneration l l l l l Risk l l l l l Financial reporting and dividends Chief Financial Officers performance report l l l l l l l l Full year l Half year l l Group Solvency II reporting l Business unit Chief Executive updates Prudential Corporation Asia l l l l l l l l Jackson l l l l l l l l M&GPrudential l l l l l l l l Risk, regulatory and compliance Regulatory and compliance updates l l l l l l Chief Risk Officers report l l l l l l l Government relations l l l l l l Relations with regulators l l l l l l l Governance and stakeholders Governance updates l l l l l l l l Board evaluation and actions tracking l l Succession planning l l l l l l l Corporate responsibility reporting and ESG l l l Diversity and inclusion l l Talent review l Non-executive Directors fees l Investor updates including feedback on investor meetings l l l l l l l l Notes 1 The Board held two meetings in March 2018.
2 Strategic projects considered during the year included the demerger of M&GPrudential, announced in March, the acquisition of TMB Asset Management Co. Ltd. in Thailand, announced in July, and the renewal of the bancassurance alliance with United Overseas Bank Limited, announced in January 2019, as well as other confidential matters.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 97 How we operate continued Board and Committee meeting attendance throughout 2018 Individual Directors attendance at meetings throughout the year is set out in the table below.
Nomination Joint Audit Audit & Governance Remuneration Risk and Risk General Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting 10 meetings 9 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting 1 meeting Chairman Paul Manduca llllllllll llll l Executive Mike Wells llllllllll l Directors llllllllll l Mark FitzPatrick James Turner llllllllll l John Foley llllllllll l llllllllll l Nic Nicandrou 1 Anne Richards llllllllll l 2 llllllllll l Barry Stowe NonPhilip Remnant llllllllll lllllllll llll lllll l l executive Howard Davies llllllllll lllllllll lll lllll l l Directors llllllllll lllllllll lll lllll l l David Law Kai Nargolwala llllllllll lllll lllll l l Anthony Nightingale llllllllll lll lllll l 3 llllllllll lllllllll llll l l Alice Schroeder Lord Turner llllllllll lllllllll lllll l l 4 llllllllll lllll l l Tom Watjen 5 Fields Wicker-Miurin lllll ll Notes 1 Ms Richards stepped down from the Board with effect from 10 August 2018.
2 Mr Stowe stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 December 2018.
3 Ms Schroeder was appointed a member of the Risk Committee with effect from 1 March 2018.
4 Mr Watjen was appointed a member of the Risk Committee with effect from 1 November 2018.
5 Mrs Wicker-Miurin was appointed a member of the Board with effect from 3 September 2018.
Board and Committee papers are usually provided one week in advance of a meeting.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, his or her views are canvassed in advance by the Chairman of that meeting where possible.
98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Board effectiveness Actions during 2018 arising from the 2017 review At the end of 2017, an externally facilitated review of the Boards effectiveness was carried out by Boardroom Review Limited.
During 2018, the action points that had been identified in that review were addressed and the Board received an update on progress against those actions in September 2018 and February 2019.
Set out below are the themes, summary of actions and progress updates: Theme Summary of actions Progress Creating the right Spend additional time on site visits The agenda of the April 2018 Board meeting held in Singapore environment for was extended to ensure that a range of internal and external Continue to hold Non-executive Director critical decisionstakeholder views on the Groups Asia business was given.
only sessions on an as required basis making During the Board visit to Washington, DC in September 2018, the Jackson Holdings team provided the Board with updates on the US business and with a specific perspective on the US government, its regulatory regime and impact on the Jackson Holdings businesses.
The Chairmans current practice of holding regular private Non-executive Director meetings has continued and Nonexecutive Directors may request additional meetings if needed.
The practice of private, members-only meetings is also established separately for the Risk and Audit Committees and has continued in 2018, with ad hoc private meetings being held as required.
Highlighting Provide further reports to the Board on A report on culture was presented to the Board in October culture on the culture in 2018 and mature the Groups 2018 detailing actions taken and proposed actions up to agenda strategic objective to develop a framework demerger and beyond.
for a measurable, definable culture The Risk Committee continues to monitor risk culture across the organisation.
The Board has approved amendments to its terms of reference which formalise the Boards role in establishing the Groups purpose, values and strategy and ensuring the alignment of these with Group culture.
Increasing the Continue to focus on gender and other The appointment of Mrs Wicker-Miurin as a Non-executive Boards resilience diversity in all new Board appointments Director and member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 3 September 2018, helped to strengthen the Introduce a skills map to monitor experience Boards range of skills, technical expertise and knowledge.
and expertise more formally The search for additional Non-executive Directors is ongoing given the Boards desire to continue enhancing its diversity, including gender and geography.
The Nomination & Governance Committee continues to utilise a skills map for Non-executive Director succession planning to ensure that gaps in Board experience or knowledge are identified and addressed.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 99 How we operate continued Board site visits Singapore In Singapore, the Board received deep dive presentations on: Eastspring Investments, Prudential Corporation Asias asset management business: The health ecosystem and partnerships that Prudential Corporation Asia is developing, including with healthcare technology and services company, Babylon Health: Digitisation and customer acquisition: Expanding the Groups presence in China: and Financial and performance updates on the Singapore business and Asia more widely.
Washington, DC, USA In Washington, the Board focused on Jacksons initiatives around: Customer understanding of variable annuity products: Distribution: Regulatory modernisation and government interactions: and Technology and people.
2018 review and actions for 2019 Director evaluation The performance evaluation of the Board and its principal Committees for 2018 was The performance of the Non-executive conducted internally at the end of 2018 through a questionnaire.
The findings were Directors and the Group Chief Executive presented to the Board in February 2019 and an action plan agreed to address areas during 2018 was evaluated by the of focus identified by the evaluation.
The review confirmed that the Board continued to operate effectively during the year Philip Remnant, the Senior Independent and no major areas requiring improvement were highlighted.
Director, led the Non-executive Directors in a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Theme Summarised actions Executive Directors are subject to regular Board Continuing work on Board succession with a focus on gender and review and the Group Chief Executive composition geographic diversity.
individually appraised the performance and process Reduction in Board and Committee paper volume.
of each of the Executive Directors as part of the annual Group-wide performance Risk, capital Cyber risk focus for Board agenda for 2019. evaluation of all employees.
and audit Board training on the HK Insurance Authority regulatory regime.
The outcome of each of these evaluation Stakeholders Review of stakeholder groups.
processes is reported to the Nomination & Governance Committee in February each Review of workforce voice and its representation at Board level.
year in order to inform the Committees recommendation for Board members to be People Develop diversity and inclusion reporting to the Board.
put forward for re-election by shareholders.
Ensure overseas and home Boards give scope for Non-executives Executive Director performance is also to meet colleagues below Group Executive Committee level.
reviewed by the Remuneration Committee as part of its deliberations on bonus payments.
100 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Directors Board roles and governance The terms of reference of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director were updated in December 2018 to reflect the 2018 UK Code and the Board also considered the Board Effectiveness Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC as to how these roles ought to be implemented.
Chairman Paul Manduca The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring its smooth and effective running in discharging its responsibilities to the Groups stakeholders and managing Board business.
Managing Board business Governance Responsible for setting the Board agenda, ensuring the right Leading the Boards determination of appropriate corporate issues are brought to the Boards attention through governance and business values, including ethos, values and collaboration with the Group Chief Executive and the Group culture at Board level and throughout the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Working with the Group General Counsel and Company Facilitating open, honest and constructive debate among Secretary to ensure continued good governance Directors.
When chairing meetings, ensuring there is Acting as key contact for independent chairs of Material sufficient time to consider all topics, all views are heard and all Subsidiaries Board members, and in particular Non-executive Directors, have an opportunity to constructively challenge management Meeting with the independent chairs of the Groups Material Subsidiaries on a regular basis and reporting to the Board on Meeting with Non-executive Directors throughout the year.
the outcome of those meetings In 2018, the Chairman met with Non-executive Directors without Executive Directors being present on four occasions Relationship with the Group Chief Executive Discussing broad strategic plans with the Group Chief Ensuring information brought to the Board is accurate, clear, Executive prior to submission to the Board timely and contains sufficient analysis appropriate to the scale and nature of the decisions to be made Ensuring the Board is aware of the necessary resources to achieve the strategic plan Promoting effective reporting of Board Committee business at Board meetings through regular Committee Chair updates Providing support and advice to the Group Chief Executive Membership and composition of the Board Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders Leading the Nomination & Governance Committee in Representing the Board externally at business, political and succession planning and the identification of potential community level.
Presenting the Groups views and positions candidates, having regard to the skills and experience the as determined by the Board Board needs to fulfil its strategy, and making Playing a major role in the Groups engagement with regulators recommendations to the Board Balancing the interests of different categories of stakeholders, Considering the development needs of the Directors so that preserving an independent view and ensuring effective Directors continually update their skills and knowledge communication required to fulfil their duties, including the provision of a comprehensive induction for new Directors Engaging in a programme of meetings with key shareholders throughout the year and reporting to the Board on the issues Maintaining an effective dialogue with the Non-executive raised at those meetings Directors to encourage engagement and maximise their contributions External positions Approving Directors external appointments prior to them being accepted, taking into account the required time commitment and escalating consideration of conflicts of interests to the Nomination & Governance Committee as needed www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 101 How we operate continued Group Chief Executive Mike Wells Senior Independent Director Philip Remnant The Group Chief Executive leads the Executive Directors and The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative conduit senior executives and is responsible for the operational to the Board for shareholder concerns and leads the evaluation management of the Group on behalf of the Board on a of the Chairman: day-to-day basis: Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, providing Responsible for the implementation of Board decisions support in the delivery of the Chairmans objectives Establishes processes to ensure operations are compliant Leads the Non-executive Directors in conducting the with regulatory requirements Chairmans annual evaluation Sets policies, provides day-to-day leadership and makes Holds meetings with Non-executive Directors without decisions on matters affecting the operation, performance management being present, typically at least once a year and strategy of the Group, seeking Board approval for to evaluate the performance of the Chairman matters reserved to the Board Offers meetings to major shareholders to provide them Supported by the Group Executive Committee which he with an additional communication point on request and is chairs and which receives reports on performance and generally available to any shareholder to address concerns implementation of strategy for each business unit and not resolved through normal channels discusses major projects and other activities related to the attainment of strategy Chairs the Chief Executives Committee meetings which are held weekly to review matters requiring approval under the Groups framework of delegated authorities Keeps in regular contact with the Chairman and briefs him on key issues Meets with key regulators worldwide Leads on day-to-day effective stakeholder engagement Committee Chairs Non-executive Directors Each of the Committee Chairs is responsible for the effective All of the Non-executive Directors are deemed to be operation of their respective Committees: independent and together have a wide range of experience which can be applied to attain the strategic aims of the Responsible for the leadership and governance of their Group through: Committee Constructive and effective challenge Sets the agenda for Committee meetings Providing strategic guidance and offering specialist advice Reports to the Board on the activities of each Committee meeting and the business considered, including, where Scrutinising and holding to account the performance of appropriate, seeking Board approval for actions in management in meeting agreed goals and objectives accordance with the Committees terms of reference Serving on at least one of the Boards principal Committees Works with the Group General Counsel and Company Engaging with Executive Directors and other senior Secretary to ensure the continued good governance of each management at Board and Committee meetings as well Committee during the year as at site visits, training sessions and on an informal basis In addition to Committee duties, the Chairs of the Audit and Risk Taking part in one-to-one meetings with the Group Strategy Committees act as key contact points for the independent chairs team and participation in the annual Strategy Away Day of the audit and risk committees of the Material Subsidiaries 102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  The Board has established four principal Committees whose functions are summarised below.
Nomination & Governance Remuneration Audit Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Chair Chair Chair Chair Paul Manduca Anthony Nightingale David Law Howard Davies Keeps leadership needs Ensures there is a formal Responsible for the Leads on and oversees under review in support and transparent process integrity of the Groups the Groups overall risk of the Groups strategic for establishing the financial reporting, appetite, risk tolerance objectives Directors Remuneration including scrutinising and strategy Policy accounting policies Develops succession Approves the Groups planning for the Board Approves individual Monitors the risk management and senior executives remuneration packages effectiveness of internal framework and monitors based on merit against of the Chairman, control and risk its effectiveness objective criteria Executive Directors, management systems, Supports the Board and promoting diversity senior executives and including compliance management in in all areas Material Subsidiary arrangements embedding and non-executive directors Oversees development Monitors the maintaining a supportive of a diverse pipeline in Approves the overall effectiveness and culture in relation to the succession planning Remuneration Policy for objectivity of internal and management of risk the Group external auditors Monitors the Groups Provides advice to the diversity initiatives Reviews the design and Approves the internal Remuneration development of share audit plan and Committee on risk Recommends plans and approves and recommends the management appointments to the assesses performance appointment of the considerations to inform Board, its principal targets where applicable external auditor remuneration decisions Committees and and ensures alignment appointments of with the Groups culture non-executive chairs to the boards of Material Reviews workforce Subsidiaries remuneration practices and policies when setting Oversees the governance executive remuneration of Material Subsidiaries and the Groups overall governance framework See Nomination & Governance See Remuneration Committee See Audit Committee report See Risk Committee report Committee report on pages report on pages 132 to 165 on pages 115 to 123 on pages 124 to 127 109 to 114 Terms of reference for the principal Notice of a Standing Committee meeting Over 2018, the Company held five Committees can be accessed at is sent to all Directors and if an individual meetings of the Standing Committee.
co. uk investors is unable to attend, he she can give This governance structure allows for fast  boardcomments to the Chairman or Group decision-making where necessary, while  Company Secretary ahead of the meeting ensuring that the full Board has oversight for consideration by the Standing of all matters under consideration and all The Board has established a Standing Committee.
Before taking decisions on Non-executives can contribute.
Committee which can meet as required to any matter, the Standing Committee must assist with any business of the Board.
It is first determine that the business it is typically used for ad hoc or urgent matters considering is appropriate for a which cannot be delayed until the next Committee of the Board and does not scheduled Board meeting.
All Directors are properly need to be brought before the members of the Standing Committee and whole Board.
All Standing Committee have the right to attend all meetings and meetings are reported in full to the next receive papers.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 103 How we operate continued Building Directors knowledge Prior to his appointment as Group Chief understanding of the business and its Induction new Directors Risk Officer, Mr Turner was a long-serving control environment.
Therefore his The two new Directors appointed during member of the Prudential senior executive induction was specifically tailored to cover 2018, Mr Turner and Mrs Wicker-Miurin, team, having most recently served as the strategic and operational priorities of each received a comprehensive induction, Director of Group Finance.
As a result the Group Risk function and his role as a tailored to reflect their experience and of his prior roles, Mr Turner was a regular member of the Board, including his position as Executive and Non-executive attendee of meetings of the Risk and Audit regulatory obligations.
Committees and has a strong A summary of the general and specific induction programme for Mrs Wicker-Miurin is set out below: General induction programme relevant to new Non-executive Directors Role-specific induction programme Understanding our governance Understanding our business for Fields Wicker-Miurin Meetings with the Chairman and Group Tailored briefings with each business unit to Orientation to the work and Chief Executive separately gain a comprehensive understanding of each role of the Remuneration of their business models, product suites, Committee Explanation of the Groups strategy and pricing arrangements and governance business plan Updates on current UK structures remuneration topics Explanation of Prudentials corporate Tailored meetings with all Group functions structure, Board and Executive Committee Meeting with the Chair structure Comprehensive briefings on the regulatory of the Remuneration environment in which the Group operates Committee to discuss Briefings on Group governance framework the annual cycle of and key policies Briefings on top risks and internal controls Committee work, its current Training as needed on the rules and Induction briefings and training as a whole focus and focus for 2019 governance requirements of the London and give Directors an understanding of the and beyond Hong Kong Stock Exchanges and on fulfilling interests of the Groups key stakeholders the statutory duties of a Director Mr Falcon has commenced a comprehensive induction programme following his appointment to the Board with effect from 7 January 2019.
Continuing development of In October 2018, the Group ran a The Risk Committee received updates knowledge and skills focused cyber security update for and training on matters including General During 2018, the Board and its Committees members of the Risk and Audit Data Protection Regulation, reputational received a number of technical and business Committees, which was particularly risks and LIBOR discontinuation over updates as part of their scheduled meetings, aimed at developing the knowledge the year: providing information on external of the Non-executive Directors: The Audit Committee received updates developments relevant to the Group and on In October 2018, the Board also received on developments affecting financial particular products or operations.
Below is an update about developments reporting and the work of audit an overview of how Directors are kept surrounding Environmental, Social and committees generally.
In 2018, this up to date: Governance ESG reporting, including included financial reporting The Board holds an annual strategy climate related risk: developments, anti-money laundering, session, which allows for detailed anti-bribery and corruption, fraud The Board reviews each business unit in updates on each of the business units prevention, whistleblowing and cyber depth at least once a year and conducts and deep dives on strategic direction risk training: and periodic site visits as part of this.
In 2018, and objectives for the Group: the Board met in Singapore and The Remuneration Committee receives The Board receives updates on brand, Washington, DC, USA.
Details of the updates on regulatory and governance diversity and inclusion, health and safety activities undertaken on these visits are developments affecting the Groups matters and corporate responsibility set out in the box on page 100: remuneration arrangements.
In 2018, activities, usually once a year: these included trends with the insurance The Board and the Risk Committee industry and peers, trends from the 2018 The Board receives updates on corporate receive regular updates on market Annual General Meeting season, governance, political and regulatory developments and key risks, including Corporate Governance reform including developments, and the dynamics of Solvency II and cyber risk.
The Risk remuneration and gender pay gap equity and currency markets at every Committee reviews top risks on an reporting.
scheduled meeting: annual basis and deep dives into specific topics in response to the identification of All Directors have the opportunity to discuss Over 2018, the Board received two key risks.
This review covers the financial, their individual development needs as part specific updates on the impact of the operational and strategic risks, whilst also of the annual Board effectiveness review FRCs revised corporate governance identifying and addressing business and Directors are asked to provide a record code highlighting key themes and actions environment and insurance risks within of training received externally on an annual for the Group: the Group.
The identification of such basis.
All Directors have the right to obtain risks inform the risk reporting provided professional advice at Prudentials expense.
to the Committee and the Board: 104 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Further information on Directors Information on a number of regulations and processes relevant to Directors, and how these are addressed by Prudential, is given below.
Area Prudentials approach Rules governing The appointment and removal of Directors is governed by the provisions in the Articles of Association the appointment Articles, the UK Code, the HK Code as appended to the Hong Kong Listing Rules the HK Listing Rules and removal and the Companies Act 2006.
Senior The Executive Directors are the senior management population for the purposes of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
management definition Terms of Non-executive Director tenure is shown on page 160. appointment Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, commencing with their election by shareholders.
From 2019, Directors tenure commences from the date of their initial appointment to the Board.
Subject to review by the Nomination & Governance Committee and re-election by shareholders, it would be expected that Non-executive Directors serve a second term of three years.
After six years, Non-executive Directors may be appointed for a further year, up to a maximum of three years in total.
Reappointment is subject to rigorous review as well as re-election by shareholders.
The Directors remuneration report sets out the terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment on page 141 and the terms of Executive Directors service contracts on page 160.
Time At present, the time commitment expected of a Non-executive Director is approximately 32.5 days per annum.
commitment All Non-executive Directors currently serve on at least one of the Boards principal Committees, which requires an additional commitment of time dependent on the Committee and role.
On appointment, all Non-executive Directors confirm they are able to devote sufficient time to the Groups affairs to meet the demands of the role.
All Non-executive Directors are required to discuss any additional commitments which might impact the time which he or she is able to devote to their role with the Chairman prior to accepting.
Independence The independence of the Non-executive Directors is determined by reference to the UK Code and HK Listing Rules as follows: For the purposes of the UK Code, throughout the year, all Non-executive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to have met the criteria for independence as set out in the UK Code: and All the Non-executive Directors were considered independent for the purposes of the HK Listing Rules, and each Non-executive Director provides an annual confirmation of his or her independence as required under the HK Listing Rules.
In accordance with US regulatory requirements, Prudential affirms annually that all members of the Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors.
The Board does not believe that this compromises the independence of those Non-executive Directors who are on the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre Non-executive Directors.
The Board and Nomination & Governance Committee in particular considered independence of the Chairman and Mr Davies before proposing them for re-election, given that both will have served on the Board for nine years at October 2019.
A full explanation of independence considerations is set out in the Nomination & Governance Committee Report.
Audit In relation to the provisions of the UK Code and HK Listing Rules, the Board is satisfied that Mr Law has recent and Committee relevant financial experience and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sectors in which experience the business operates.
Full biographies of the Committee members including experience and professional qualifications, are set out on pages 92 to 94.
The Board has determined that Mr Law qualifies as the Audit Committee financial expert under the requirements of Form 20-F. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 105 How we operate continued Area Prudentials approach Indemnities Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles permit the Directors and officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Suitable insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of companies within the Group.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are also available for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and certain other such persons, including certain directors of other companies within the Group.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in place for the benefit of certain pension trustee directors within the Group.
These indemnities were in force during 2018 and remain so.
Significant At no time during the year did any Director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the contracts Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
