01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  For the purpose of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of US operations for fixed annuity and other general account business, a risk margin reserve charge is included which reflects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which reflects the aggregation of end-of-period risk-free rates and the equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating profit includes the unwind of discount on the opening value of in-force business adjusted to reflect end-of-period projected rates of return with the excess or deficit of the actual return recognised within non-operating profit, together with related hedging activity.
For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may, from time to time, take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the projected yield on the asset portfolio and the allowance for default risk.
The net effect of these changes is included in the operating result for the year.
c Unwind of discount and other expected returns The Groups methodology in determining the unwind of discount and other expected returns is by reference to: The value of in-force business at the beginning of the year adjusted for the effect of current year economic and operating assumption changes : and Required capital and surplus assets.
In applying this general approach, the unwind of discount included in operating profit for M&GPrudential is described below.
M&GPrudential The unwind is determined by reference to an implied single risk discount rate.
The EEV risk-free rate is based on a yield curve as set out in note 13 i h, which is used to derive an implied single discount rate which, if this rate had been used, would reproduce the same embedded value as that calculated by reference to the yield curve.
The difference between the operating profit determined using the single implied discount rate and that derived using the yield curve is included within non-operating profit.
For with-profits business, the opening value of in-force is adjusted for the effect of short-term investment volatility due to market movements ie smoothed.
In the summary statement of financial position and for total profit reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
At 31 December 2018, the shareholders interest in the smoothed surplus assets used for this purpose only were 12 million higher 31 December 2017: 57 million lower than the surplus assets carried in the statement of financial position.
d Effect of changes in operating assumptions Operating profit includes the effect of changes to non-economic assumptions on the value of in-force at the end of the year.
For presentational purposes the effect of changes is delineated to show the effect on the opening value of in-force as operating assumption changes, with the experience variances subsequently being determined by reference to the end-of-year assumptions see note 13 ii e. e Operating experience variances Operating profit includes the effect of experience variances on non-economic assumptions, such as persistency, mortality and morbidity, expenses and other factors, which are calculated with reference to the end-of-year assumptions.
f Effect of changes in economic assumptions Movements in the value of in-force business at the beginning of the year caused by changes in economic assumptions, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, are recorded in non-operating results.
14 Assumptions Principal economic assumptions The EEV basis results for the Groups operations have been determined using economic assumptions where the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to year-end risk-free rates of return defined below for each of the Groups insurance operations.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes and corporate bonds are derived by adding a risk premium, based on the Groups long-term view, to the risk-free rate.
The total profit that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract as calculated using the embedded value basis is the same over time as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis reflects discounted future cash flows, under the EEV methodology the profit emergence is advanced, thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of profit with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 369 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 14 Assumptions continued Principal economic assumptions continued i Asia The risk-free rates of return for Asia are defined as 10-year government bond yields at the end of the year.
The changes in the risk discount rates for individual Asia business units reflect the movements in 10-year government bond yields, changes in the economic basis and changes in product mix.
b For Hong Kong the assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business.
For other business units, the assumptions are for local currency denominated business.
c Equity risk premiums in Asia range from 4.0 per cent to 9.4 per cent 2017: 4.0 per cent to 9.4 per cent.
d The mean equity return assumptions for the most significant equity holdings of the Asia operations are: 31 Dec 2018 % 31 Dec 2017 % Hong Kong 6.7 6.4 Malaysia 10.6 10.4 Singapore 8.6 8.5 ii US The risk-free rates of return for the US are defined as the 10-year treasury bond yield at the end of the year.
31 Dec 2018 % 31 Dec 2017 % Risk discount rate: Variable annuity: Risk discount rate 7.1 6.8 note 13 i h Additional allowance for credit risk included in risk discount rate 0.2 0.2 Non-variable annuity: Risk discount rate 4.4 4.1 note 13 i h Additional allowance for credit risk included in risk discount rate 1.0 1.0 Weighted average total: New business 6.9 6.7 In-force business 6.8 6.5 US 10-year treasury yield 2.7 2.4 note 13 i h Allowance for long-term defaults included in projected spread 0.17 0.19 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 6.7 6.4 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.9 3.0 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 S&P equity return volatility 17.5 18.0 Note Assumed new business spread margins are as follows: 31 Dec 2018 % 31 Dec 2017 % January to July to January to July to June December June December issues issues issues issues Fixed annuity business 1.75 1.75 1.50 1.25 Fixed index annuity business 2.00 2.00 1.75 1.50 Institutional business 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.50 The assumed spread margin grades up linearly by 25 basis points to a long-term assumption over five years.
Including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account.
370 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  iii UK and Europe The risk-free rate is based on the full term structure of interest rates, ie a yield curve, which is used to determine the embedded value at the end of the reporting period.
These yield curves are used to derive pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return and risk discount rates.
For the purpose of determining the unwind of discount in the analysis of operating profit, these yield curves are used to derive a single implied risk discount rate, as explained in note 13 i h. This single implied risk discount rate is shown, along with the 15-year nominal rate of investment return and 15-year rate of inflation based on the inflation yield curve.
31 Dec 2018 % 31 Dec 2017 % note a Shareholder-backed annuity in-force business: Risk discount rate 4.7 4.0 note c Pre-tax expected 15-year nominal rates of investment return 3.1 2.6 With-profits and other business: note b Risk discount rate: New business 4.9 4.7 In-force business 5.0 4.8 note c Pre-tax expected 15-year nominal rates of investment return: Overseas equities 6.5 to 10.1 6.2 to 10.1 Property 4.4 4.4 15-year gilt yield 1.7 1.6 Corporate bonds 3.5 3.4 Expected 15-year rate of inflation 3.6 3.5 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 Notes a For shareholder-backed annuity business, the movements in the pre-tax long-term nominal rates of return and risk discount rates reflect the effect of changes in asset yields.
b The risk discount rates for with-profits and other business shown above represents a weighted average total of the rates applied to determine the present value of future cash flows, including the portion of future with-profits business shareholders transfers recognised in net worth.
c The table below shows the pattern of the UK risk-free Solvency II spot yield curve at the end of 31 December: 1 year 5 year 10 year 15 year 20 year 31 Dec 2018 1.0% 1.2% 1.3% 1.4% 1.5% 31 Dec 2017 0.6% 0.9% 1.2% 1.3% 1.4% Stochastic assumptions Details are given below of the key characteristics of the models used to determine the time value of the financial options and guarantees as referred to in note 13 i d. iv Asia The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily of significance for the Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan operations: The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds: The asset return models are similar to the models as described for M&GPrudential below: and The volatility of equity returns ranges from 18 per cent to 35 per cent for both years, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 1.1 per cent to 2.0 per cent 2017: from 1.1 per cent to 2.0 per cent.
v US Jackson Interest rates and equity returns are projected using a log-normal generator reflecting historical market data: Corporate bond returns are based on treasury yields plus a spread that reflects current market conditions: and The volatility of equity returns ranges from 17 per cent to 26 per cent 2017: from 18 per cent to 27 per cent, and the standard deviation of interest rates ranges from 3.4 per cent to 3.7 per cent 2017: from 2.5 per cent to 2.8 per cent.
vi UK and Europe M&GPrudential Interest rates are projected using a stochastic interest rate model calibrated to the current market yields: Equity returns are assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: The corporate bond return is calculated based on a risk-free return plus a mean-reverting spread: Property returns are also modelled based on a risk-free return plus a risk premium with a stochastic process reflecting total property returns: and The standard deviation of equities and property ranges from 14 per cent to 20 per cent for both years.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 371 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 14 Assumptions continued Operating assumptions vii Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash flow projections, where best estimate is defined as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, reflect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience, but also reflect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
When projecting cash flows for medical reimbursement business that is repriced annually, explicit allowance is made for expected future premiums inflation and separately for future medical claims inflation.
The 2018 EEV results reflect this approach.
Previously, medical claims inflation was implicitly allowed for by assuming that all increases in medical claim costs were directly offset by future premium increases with no impact on profits.
Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
For mature business, it is Prudentials policy not to take credit for future cost reduction programmes until the actions to achieve the savings have been delivered.
An allowance is made for short-term required expenses, that are not representative of the longer-term expense loadings of the relevant businesses.
At 31 December 2018, the allowance held for these costs across the Group was 436 million mainly arising in Asia.
Expense overruns are reported where these are expected to be short-lived, including businesses that are growing rapidly or are sub-scale.
For Asia operations, the expenses comprise costs borne directly and recharged costs from the Asia Regional Head Office that are attributable to covered business.
The assumed future expenses for these operations also include projections of these future recharges.
Development expenses are charged as incurred.
Corporate expenditure, which is included in other income and expenditure, comprises: Expenditure for Group Head Office, to the extent not allocated to the UK with-profits funds, together with restructuring costs incurred across the group: and Expenditure of the Asia Regional Head Office that is not allocated to the covered business or asset management operations which is charged as incurred.
These costs are primarily for corporate related activities and are included within corporate expenditure.
viii Tax rates The assumed long-term effective tax rates for operations reflect the incidence of taxable profits and losses in the projected cash flows as explained in note 13 i j.
The local statutory corporate tax rates applicable for the most significant operations for 2018 and 2017 are as follows: % Asia operations: Hong Kong 16.5 per cent on 5 per cent of premium income Indonesia 25.0 Malaysia 24.0 Singapore 17.0 US operations 2017: 35.0: 2018: 21.0 UK operations 2017 and 2018: 19.0: from 1 April 2020: 17.0 372 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
