173 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies b New standards, amendments and The impact on the financial statements is General information interpretations issued but not effective for presentational only and there is no impact The Company is a public limited company thefinancial year beginning 1 January 2018 on the income statement or the statement incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
andnot early adopted: ofcash flows.
The address of its registered office is No.
IFRS 16, Leases, replaces IAS 17, Leases Basis of consolidation 1 Godwin Street, Bradford, England, BD12SU.
and provides a model for the identification The Company is listed on the London The consolidated income statement, of lease arrangements and the treatment in Stock Exchange.
consolidated statement of comprehensive the financial statements of both lessees and income, balance sheet, statement of changes lessors and is effective from 1 January 2019.
Basis of preparation in shareholders equity, statement of cash The standard distinguishes leases and flows and notes to the financial statements The financial statements of the Group service contracts on the basis of whether an include the financial statements of the and Company are prepared in accordance identified asset is controlled by the customer.
Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings with IFRS adopted for use in the European Distinctions of operating leases and finance drawn up from the date control passes to the Union EU, International Financial leases are removed for lessee accounting, Group until the date control ceases.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and is replaced by a model where a  and the Companies Act Control is achieved when the Group: use asset and a corresponding liability are 2006.
The financial statements have been recognised for all leases by lessees, except Has the power over the investee: prepared on a going concern basis under the for short term assets and leases of low Is exposed, or has rights, to variable return historical cost convention, as modified by the value assets.
from its involvement with the investee: and revaluation of derivative financial instruments The right of use asset is initially measured at and investments held at fair value through Has the ability to use its power to cost and subsequently measured at cost less other comprehensive income.
In preparing the affect returns.
accumulated depreciation and impairment financial statements, the directors are required All intra-group transactions, balances losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of to use certain critical accounting estimates and unrealised gains on transactions the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially and are required to exercise judgement in between Group companies are eliminated measured at the present value of the lease the application of the Group and Companys on consolidation.
payments that are not paid at that date.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are Subsequently the lease liability isadjusted for The Group and Companys principal consistent with the accounting policies of interest and lease payments, as well as the accounting policies under IFRS, which have the Group.
impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
been consistently applied to all the years The classification of cash flows will be affected presented unless otherwise stated, are set Revenue as under IAS 17 operating lease payments are out below: Revenue comprises interest and fee income presented as operating cash flows: whereas a New and amended standards adopted earned by Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn and under IFRS 16, the lease payments will be split bytheGroup and Company: interest income earned by CCD.
into a principal and interest portion which will be presented as operating and financing cash Group revenue excludes value added tax and IFRS 9 has been adopted by the Group and flows respectively.
Company from the mandatory adoption date of 1 January 2018.
Full details of the impact Interest income generated from Moneybarns Company revenue includes intra-group ofadoption can be found in note 32. conditional sales agreements will be accounted transactions and dividends received.
However, there will IFRS 15 has been adopted from 1 January Within Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated be no impact on the amounts recognised.
The standard establishes the principles on credit card advances to customers to determine the nature, amount and timing, The adoption of IFRS 16 into the Groups using the effective interest rate on the daily and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows opening balance sheet on 1 January 2019 balance outstanding.
Annual fees charged arising from a contract with a customer.
results in an increase in assets of 82m and to customers credit card accounts are liabilities of 89m, which net of deferred tax recognised as part of the effective interest Interest income in both Vanquis Bank and the of 1m, results in a reduction in net assets rate.
Penalty charges and other fees are Consumer Credit Division CCD is accounted of6m.
recognised at the time the charges are made for in accordance with IFRS 9.
Interest income generated from Moneybarns conditional sales to customers on the basis that performance Disclosure reclassification is complete.
agreements continues to be accounted for in Historically, interest accruals on borrowings accordance IAS 17 Leases.
Within CCD and Moneybarn, revenue on and retail deposits have been presented customer receivables is recognised using an Non-interest income generated by Vanquis within trade and other payables in the balance effective interest rate.
The effective interest Bank is now accounted for in accordance with sheet.
They have now been disclosed as part rate is calculated using estimated cash flows.
However, there has been no change of the principal balances to which they relate For CCD this reflects estimated cash flows, in the recognition of revenue to the approach within borrowings, replicating the presentation being contractual payments adjusted for adopted previously under IAS 39. of interest recognised on customer the impact of customers who either repay There has been no other new or amended receivables.
Prior year comparatives have also early, to term or beyond term, but do not standards adopted in the financial year been reclassified.
trigger the IFRS 9 default arrears stage during beginning 1 January 2018 which had a material the full life of the loan.
Directly attributable impact on the Group or Company.
incremental issue costs are also taken into 174 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued account in calculating the effective interest Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Other intangible assets are valued at cost less rate.
Interest income continues to be accrued 1 January 1998 was eliminated against subsequent amortisation.
Amortisation is on impaired receivables using the original shareholders funds under UK GAAP and charged to the income statement as part of effective interest rate applied to the loans was not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
carrying value until revenue equal to the On disposal of a business, any such goodwill Foreign currency translation loans original service charge has been relating to the business will not be taken into fully recognised.
account in determining the profit or loss Items included in the financial statements of on disposal.
Revenue for Vanquis Bank and CCD is each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured recognised on the gross receivable when using the currency of the primary economic Investments in subsidiaries accounts are in IFRS 9 stages 1 and 2 and on environment in which the subsidiary operates the net receivable for accounts in stage 3.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at the functional currency.
The Groups Accounts can only move between stages for cost less, where appropriate, provisions subsidiaries primarily operate in the UK and revenue recognition purposes at the Groups for impairment.
Impairment is calculated Republic of Ireland.
The consolidated and the interim or year end balance sheet date.
by comparing the carrying value of the Company financial statements are presented investment with the higher of the net asset in sterling, which is the Companys functional Finance costs value of the relevant subsidiary and its and presentational currency.
discounted expected future cash flows.
Finance costs principally comprise the interest Transactions that are not denominated in the on retail deposits, bank and other borrowings Groups functional currency are recorded at Leases and, for the Company, on intra-group loan the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the arrangements, and are recognised on an Leases in which substantially all of the risks transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities effective interest rate basis.
Finance costs and rewards of ownership are retained by denominated in foreign currencies are the lessor are classified as operating leases.
also include any fair value movement on translated into the relevant functional currency The leases entered into by the Group and those derivative financial instruments held at the exchange rates ruling at the balance Company are solely operating leases.
Costs in for hedging purposes which do not qualify for sheet date.
Differences arising on translation hedge accounting under IAS 39. respect of operating leases are charged to the are charged or credited to the income income statement on a straight-line basis over statement, except when deferred in equity as Dividend income the lease term.
Dividend income is recognised in the income If a foreign operation were to be disposed Other intangible assets statement when the Companys right to of, the cumulative amount of the differences Other intangible assets include acquisition receive payment is established.
arising on translation recognised in other intangibles in respect of the broker relationships comprehensive income would be recognised Goodwill at Moneybarn, stand-alone computer software in the income statement when the gain or loss and development costs of intangible assets on disposal is recognised.
All acquisitions are accounted for using the across the Group.
Amounts receivable from customers The fair value of Moneybarns broker Goodwill is an intangible asset and is relationships on acquisition was estimated by Customer receivables are initially recorded at measured as the excess of the fair value of discounting the expected future cash flows the amount advanced to the customer plus the consideration over the fair value of the from Moneybarns core broker relationships directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequently, acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and over their estimated useful economic life which receivables are increased by revenue and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
The asset is being reduced by cash collections and deduction Gains and losses on the disposal of a amortised on a straight-line basis over its for impairment.
Impairment provisions are subsidiary include the carrying amount of estimated useful life.
recognised on inception of a loan based on the goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
probability of default PD and the loss arising Computer software and computer software Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating on default LGD.
development assets represent the costs units for the purposes of impairment incurred to acquire or develop software and On initial recognition, all accounts are testing.
The allocation is made to those bring it into use.
Directly attributable costs recognised in IFRS 9 stage 1.
When an account cash-generating units or groups of cashincurred in the development of software is deemed to have suffered a significant generating units which are expected to benefit are capitalised as an intangible asset if the increase in credit risk, such as missing a from the business combination in which the software will generate future economic payment, but they have not defaulted, they goodwill arose.
Directly attributable costs include move to stage 2.
When accounts default, after Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and the cost of software development employees missing further payments or moving to a is carried at cost less accumulated impairment and an appropriate portion of relevant directly payment arrangement, they move into stage 3. losses.
Impairment is tested by comparing the attributable overheads.
carrying value of the asset to the discounted Computer software and computer software expected future cash flows from the relevant development costs are amortised on a  unit.
Expected future cash line basis over their estimated useful economic flows are derived from the Companys latest life which is generally estimated to be between budget projections and the discount rate is three and 10 years.
The residual values and based on the Companys risk adjusted cost of economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed capital at the balance sheet date.
by management at each balance sheet date.
175 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Vanquis Bank Moneybarn The following principal bases are used: % Method Vanquis Bank has developed PD LGD models Moneybarn has created a PD LGD model Land Nil which focus on forecasting customer behaviour to calculate an expected loss impairment Short leasehold Over the lease to calculate an expected loss impairment provision in accordance with IFRS 9. buildings period Straight line provision in accordance withIFRS 9.
Equipment including Losses are recognised on inception of a 1 computer hardware 10 to 33 Straight line 3 Losses are recognised on inception of a loan based on the probability of a customer Reducing loan based on the probability of a customer defaulting within 12 months.
This is determined Motor vehicles 25 balance defaulting within 12 months.
This is with reference to historical customers data determined with reference to the customers and outcomes.
The residual values and useful economic application score used in underwriting the lives of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted Lifetime losses are then recognised when credit card.
The LGD for Vanquis Bank card if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
asignificant increase in credit risk is evident customers represents the current balance All items of property, plant and equipment, from a missed monthly payment.
on the card plus future expected spend and other than land, are tested for impairment A customer is deemed to have defaulted when interest.
It does not include any credit line whenever events or changes in circumstances they are no longer able to sustain payments increases which a customer may become indicate that the carrying value may not be under their agreement and the agreement is eligible for after the balance sheet date.
Land is subject to an annual subsequently terminated.
An impairment loss is Lifetime losses are recognised when a Customers are moved to IFRS 9 stage 3 and recognised for the amount by which the assets significant increase in credit risk is evident, lifetime losses are recognised for all divisions carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets either from a missed monthly payment or an where forbearance is provided to the customer value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue continues to and alternative payment arrangements are Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant be recognised on the gross receivable until the established.
Customers under payment and equipment are determined by comparing customer defaults.
arrangements are separately identified any proceeds with the carrying value of the A customer is deemed to have defaulted according to the type of payment arrangement.
asset and are recognised within administrative when they become three minimum monthly The carrying value of receivables under each costs in the income statement.
payments in arrears, they enter a payment type of payment arrangement is calculated Depreciation is charged to the income statement arrangement or if there is evidence of a further using historical cash flows under that payment as part of administrative and operating costs.
significant increase in credit score.
arrangement, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
CCD Investments Separate macro-economic provisions are CCD has created a PD LGD model for Investments held at fair value through other created to reflect the expected impact of future customers who are up to date or have missed comprehensive income OCI economic events on a customers ability to one payment in the last 12 weeks to calculate make payments on their accounts.
For Vanquis Visa Inc. shares classed as equity investment an expected loss impairment provision in Bank, downturns in unemployment rates holdings are measured at fair value in the accordance with IFRS 9. and for Moneybarn deterioration in both balance sheet as a reliable estimate of the fair Losses are recognised on inception of a unemployment and the used car market are value can be determined.
loan based on the probability of a customer used to calculate separate provisions which Fair value changes including any impairment defaulting within 12 months utilising historic are held in addition to the core provisions for losses and foreign exchange gains or losses repayment data excluding data from 2017 accounts in stages 1 to 3.
Within CCD, there is are recognised directly in equity through which is not deemed to be indicative of future no separate macro-economic provision applied other comprehensive income.
The fair value performance given the operational disruption as its customers are not reflective of the wider of monetary assets denominated in foreign at that time within the home credit business.
economy as they are less indebted and are currency are determined through translation Lifetime losses are then recognised using a therefore not impacted by the same macroat the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
discounted cash flow model when a significant economic factors.
Dividends on equity instruments are recognised increase in credit risk is evident from two Property, plant and equipment in the income statement when the Groups right missed weekly payments in the last 12 weeks.
to receive the dividends is established.
A customer is deemed to have defaulted when Property, plant and equipment is shown The cumulative gain or loss that is recognised the customer would typically no longer be at costless accumulated depreciation and in equity is recycled to the income statement eligible to be re-served with a subsequent loan impairment, except for land, which is shown on disposal of the equity holding.
which is considered to be five missed weekly atcost less impairment.
payments in the last 12 weeks.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any Cash and cash equivalents For certain loans the presumption of 30 other costs that are directly attributable Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash days inrespect of the definition of significant tothe acquisition of the items.
Repairs and atbank and in hand which includes amounts increase in credit risk and 90 days for the maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
invested in the Bank of England account definition of default has been rebutted.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets held in accordance with the Prudential This issupported by historical data which to their estimated realisable values over their Regulation Authoritys PRA liquidity regime.
supports payment recency as a better useful economic lives.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current indicator of the degree of impairment liabilities to the extent that there is no right thanoverall days past due.
176 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued Hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is Borrowings are classified as current liabilities Derivative financial instruments discontinued when: unless the Group or Company has an The Group and the Company use derivative unconditional right to defer settlement of the It is evident from testing that a derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate liability for at least 12 months after the balance financial instrument is not, or has ceased swaps and forward contracts, to manage the sheet date.
to be, highly effective as a hedge: or interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk The derivative financial instrument expires, Dividends paid arising from the Groups operations in the or is sold, terminated or exercised: or UKand Republic of Ireland.
No transactions Dividend distributions to the Companys ofa speculative nature are undertaken.
The underlying hedged item matures shareholders are recognised in the Group and orissold or repaid.
All derivative financial instruments continue the Companys financial statements as follows: to be assessed against the hedge accounting When a cash flow hedge expires or is Final dividend: when approved by the criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial instruments: sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer Companys shareholders at the Annual Recognition and measurement as permitted meetsthe criteria for hedge accounting, any General Meeting: and under IAS 39.
Derivative financial instruments cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity Interim dividend: when paid that meet the hedge accounting requirements atthat time is immediately transferred bythe Company.
of IAS 39 are designated as either: hedges of totheincome statement.
the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or The fair values of various derivative financial Retirement benefits firm commitments fair value hedges : hedges instruments used for hedging purposes of highly probable forecast transactions cash Defined benefit pension schemes are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in hedging reserve in shareholders equity The charge in the income statement in respect foreign operations.
The full fair value of a of defined benefit pension schemes comprises The relationship between hedging instruments derivative financial instrument is classified the actuarially assessed current service cost of and hedged items is documented at the as a non-current asset or liability when the working employees, together with the interest inception of a transaction, as well as the risk remaining maturity of the hedged item is more on pension liabilities offset by the interest management objectives and strategy for than 12 months from the balance sheet date on pension scheme assets.
All charges are undertaking various hedging transactions.
and as a current asset or liability when the recognised within administrative costs in the The assessment of whether the derivative remaining maturity of the hedged item is less income statement.
financial instruments used in hedging than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the transactions are highly effective in offsetting Net investment hedges balance sheet in respect of defined benefit changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged pension schemes is the fair value of the items is documented, both at the hedge The Group uses a combination of borrowings schemes assets less the present value of the inception and on an ongoing basis.
denominated in overseas currencies and defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet foreign currency forward contracts as a Derivative financial instruments are initially date.
A retirement benefit asset is recognised hedge against the translation exposure on recognised at their fair value on the date a to the extent that the Group and Company the Companys net investment in the Republic derivative contract is entered into and are have an unconditional right to a refund of the of Ireland.
Where the hedge is fully effective subsequently re-measured at each reporting asset or if it will be recovered in future years at hedging the variability in the net assets date to their fair value.
Where derivative as a result of reduced contributions to the of those operations and or the Companys financial instruments do not qualify for hedge pension scheme.
investment caused by changes in exchange accounting, movements in the fair value are rates, the changes in value of the borrowings The defined benefit obligation is calculated recognised immediately within the income and forward contracts are recognised in annually by independent actuaries using the statement.
Where hedge accounting criteria the statement of comprehensive income projected unit credit method.
The present have been met, the resultant gain or loss and accumulated in the hedging reserve.
value of the defined benefit obligation is on the derivative financial instrument is determined by discounting the estimated When ahedge is no longer deemed to recognised as follows: future cash outflows using interest rates of be highly effective, the ineffective part of Cash flow hedges high quality corporate bonds that have terms any change in value caused by changes in to maturity approximating to the terms of the exchange rates is recognised in the income The effective portion of changes in the fair related pension liability.
Amounts recognised in equity are value of derivative financial instruments recycled to the income statement on disposal that are designated and qualify as cash flow Actuarial gains and losses arising from of the foreign operation.
hedges are recognised in the hedging reserve experience adjustments and changes within equity.
The gain or loss relating to the in actuarial assumptions are recognised Borrowings ineffective portion is recognised immediately in immediately in the statement of the income statement as part of finance costs.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, Amounts deferred in equity are recognised being issue proceeds less any transaction Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement when the income or costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently in the income statement.
expense on the hedged item is recognised in stated at amortised cost: any difference Defined contribution pension schemes the income statement.
between proceeds less transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Contributions to defined contribution pension income statement over the expected life of the schemes are charged to the income statement borrowings using the effective interest rate.
177 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements is also used for calculating the fair value of items of income or expense that are taxable Share capital SAYE options which have no performance or deductible in other years and it further Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The value of the charge is excludes items that are never taxable Incremental costs directly attributable to the adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect or deductible.
issue of new shares are shown in equity as a lapses and expected or actual levels of vesting, Deferred tax deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
with a corresponding adjustment to the sharebased payment reserve.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable Merger reserve or recoverable on differences between the For LTIS schemes, performance conditions The rights issue completed in April 2018 was carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the are based on EPS, Total Shareholder Return financial statements and the corresponding transacted through a cash box structure.
TSR versus a peer group and risk metrics.
tax bases used in the computation of taxable The proceeds would ordinarily be recognised Employees of Vanquis Bank, CCD and profit, and is accounted for using the balance as share capital and share premium.
However, Moneybarn also have targets relating to profit sheet liability method.
as the proceeds were generated through a before tax of their division.
The fair value of cash box structure, the proceeds are held as awards is determined using a combination of Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and share capital and a merger reserve.
the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing laws that have been enacted or substantively The share capital generated is in line with models.
The value of the charge is adjusted at enacted by the balance sheet date and are 8 the 20 11 par value of the shares with the each balance sheet date to reflect lapses and expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability additional amounts credited to the merger expected or actual levels of vesting.
Deferred tax is also provided on reserve.
All fees are recognised on an accruals Monte Carlo option pricing model is used to temporary differences arising on investments basis and have been deducted from the determine fair value of the TSR component, in subsidiaries, except where the timing of merger reserve with the net credit being no adjustment is made to reflect expected or the reversal of the temporary difference is deemed distributable, subject to the capital actual levels of vesting as the probability of the awards vesting is taken into account in the controlled by the Company and it is probable injected into Vanquis Bank.
initial calculation of the fair value of the awards.
that the temporary difference will not reverse Share-based payments in the future.
A transfer is made from the share-based payment reserve to retained earnings when Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Equity-settled schemes extent that it is probable that future taxable options and awards vest or lapse.
In respect of The Company grants options under employee profits will be available against which the the SAYE options, the proceeds received, net of savings-related share option schemes temporary differences can be utilised.
any directly attributable transaction costs, are typically referred to as Save As You Earn credited to share capital and share premium Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset schemes SAYE and makes awards under the when the options are exercised.
when there is a legally enforceable right to Performance Share Plan PSP and the Long offset current tax assets against current tax Cash-settled schemes Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
All of these liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and schemes are equity-settled.
The Company also grants awards under liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the The cost of providing options and awards to the Provident Financial Equity Plan PFEP to same taxation authority on either the taxable Group and Company employees is charged eligible employees based on a percentage of entity or different taxable entities where there to the income statement of the entity over their salary.
The cost of the awards is based is an intention to settle the balances on a the vesting period of the related options and on the performance conditions of either net basis.
The corresponding credit is made divisional profit before tax or EPS and TSR to a share-based payment reserve within growth compared to a comparative group.
The grant by the Company of options The scheme is cash settled.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has and awards over its equity instruments to The cost of the award is charged to the income a present obligation legal or constructive as the employees of subsidiary undertakings is statement over the vesting period and a a result of a past event, it is probable that the treated as an investment in the Companys corresponding credit is made within liabilities.
Group will be required to settle that obligation financial statements.
The fair value of The value of the charge is adjusted at each and a reliable estimate can be made of the employee services received, measured by balance sheet date to reflect expected levels amount of the obligation.
reference to the fair value at the date of of vesting.
The amount recognised as a provision is the grant, is recognised over the vesting period best estimate of the consideration required as an increase in investments in subsidiary Taxation to settle the present obligation at the balance undertakings, with a corresponding The tax charge represents the sum of current sheet date, taking into account the risks and adjustment to the share-based payment and deferred tax.
Where a provision is measured using the Current tax The cost of options and awards is based cash flows estimated to settle the present on their fair value.
For PSP schemes, the Current tax is calculated based on taxable obligation, its carrying amount is the present performance conditions are based on earnings profit for the year using tax rates that have value of those cash flows when the effect of per share EPS.
Accordingly, the fair value been enacted or substantively enacted by the time value of money is material.
of options and awards is determined using the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs a binomial option pricing model which is a from profit before taxation as reported in suitable model for valuing options with internal the income statement because it excludes related targets such as EPS.
A binomial model 178 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued A significant increase in credit risk for expected experience.
Discount rates Contingent liabilities customers in Vanquis Bank, is when there are based on the market yields of high Contingent liabilities are possible obligations has been a significant increase in behavioural quality corporate bonds which have arising from past events, whose existence will score or when one contractual monthly terms closely linked with the estimated be confirmed only by uncertain future events, payment has been missed.
In Moneybarn and term of the retirement benefit obligation.
or present obligations arising from past events on the Satsuma monthly product a significant Inflation assumptions reflect long-term that are not recognised because either an increase in credit risk is deemed to be when market expectations for retail price inflation.
outflow of economic benefits is not probable one contractual monthly payment has been Sensitivity analysis of the Groups main or the amount of the obligation cannot be missed.
In CCD, credit risk is assumed to assumptions are set out in note 19. reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are increase significantly when the cumulative not recognised in the balance sheet but Provisions for customer redress 53.2m amount of two or more contractual weekly information about them is disclosed unless the payments have been missed in the previous Critical accounting assumptions: possibility of any economic outflow in relation 12 weeks, since only at this point do the Provisions for customer redress are to settlement is remote.
expected future cash flows from loans established based on the following conditions deteriorate significantly.
Exceptional items being present: i a present obligation legal or Key sources of estimation uncertainty: constructive has arisen as a result of a past Exceptional items are items that are unusual The level of impairment in each of the event: ii payment is probable more likely than because of their size, nature or incidence Groups businesses is calculated using not : and iii the amount can be estimated and which the directors consider should models which use historical payment reliably.
Judgement is applied to determine be disclosed separately to enable a full performance to generate the estimated whether the criteria for establishing and understanding of the Groups results.
amount and timing of future cash flows retaining a provision have been met, including from each arrears stage, and are regularly obtaining legal advice from the Groups Supplementary information lawyers.
Any provisions established are based tested using subsequent cash collections In order to assist users of the financial on either: i the basis of any settlement agreed to ensure they retain sufficient accuracy.
statements, supplementary commentary has with the FCA: ii any future claims which The impairment models are regularly been provided within the financial statements may arise outside the settlement agreement reviewed to take account of the current within highlighted boxes.
This supplementary reached with the FCA: and iii the expected economic environment, product mix and information does not form part of the costs of administering the redress programme.
Judgement is applied to determine the However, on the basis that the payment quantum of such liabilities, particularly those performance of customers could be different Critical accounting assumptions relating to future claims volumes, including from the assumptions used in estimating and key sources ofestimation making assumptions regarding the number future cash flows, a material adjustment to of future complaints that may be received uncertainty the carrying value of amounts receivable and the extent to which they may be upheld, from customers may be required: and In applying the accounting policies set out average redress payments and related To the extent that the net present value of above, the Group and Company make administrative costs.
Past experience is estimated future cash flows differs by 1%, judgements other than those involving used as a predictor of future expectations it is estimated that the amounts receivable estimates that have a significant impact on the with management applying overlays where from customers would be approximately amounts recognised and to make estimates necessary depending on the nature and 21m 2017: 23m higher lower.
Given the and assumptions that affect the reported circumstances of any restitution programme.
trading performance of the home credit amounts of assets and liabilities.
The estimates The total amount provided for redress business since 2017, the suitability of the and assumptions are based on historical represents the Groups best estimate of the 1% sensitivity has been reviewed and experience, actual results may differ from likely future cost.
However, a number of risks considered appropriate given ongoing these estimates.
and uncertainties remain in particular with improvement in collections performance Amounts receivable from respect to future claim volumes outside of andthe linear relationship of the impact.
customers 2,162.9m any settlement agreed with the FCA.
The cost Retirement benefit asset 83.9m could differ from the Groups estimates Critical accounting assumptions: and the assumptions underpinning them, Key sources of estimation uncertainty: The Group reviews its portfolio of loans and and could result in a further provision receivables for impairment at each balance The valuation of the retirement benefit being required.
For the purposes of assessing the asset is dependent upon a series of Key sources of estimation uncertainty are: impairment of customer loans and receivables, assumptions: the key assumptions being customers are categorised into IFRS 9 stages mortality rates, the discount rate applied There is significant uncertainty around and cohorts which are considered to be the to liabilities and inflation rates.
The most the impact of the proposed regulatory most reliable indication of future payment significant assumption which could lead to changes, FCA media campaign and claims performance.
The Group makes assumptions material adjustment is a change in mortality management companies and customer to determine whether there is objective rates: and activity: and evidence that credit risk has increased Mortality estimates are based on Sensitivity analysis of the Groups main significantly which indicates that there has standard mortality tables, adjusted where assumptions is set out in note 24. been an adverse effect on expected future appropriate to reflect the Groups own cash flows.
