D Other notes continued D5 Commitments Operating leases and capital commitments The Group leases various offices to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2018 m 2017 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 120 113 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 404 284 Later than 5 years 408 118 Future minimum sub-lease rentals received for non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings 42 56 Minimum lease rental payments included in consolidated income statement 139 123 In addition, the Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2018 were 615 million 31 December 2017: 176 million.
At 31 December 2018, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 664 million 31 December 2017: 414 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and 345 million 31 December 2017: 214 million related to commercial mortgage loans and other fixed maturities.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and a material adverse impact on the operations is not expected to arise from them.
At 31 December 2018, UK and Europes insurance operations had unfunded commitments of 3,997 million 31 December 2017: 3,225 million related to private equity and infrastructure funds.
In addition, Prudential Capital had unfunded commitments of 155 million 31 December 2017: 162 million related to its bridging loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and no material adverse impact on the operations is expected to arise.
D6 Investments in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates a Dividend restrictions and minimum capital requirements Certain Group subsidiaries and joint ventures are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
Under UK company law, UK companies can only declare dividends if they have sufficient distributable reserves.
Further, UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins in accordance with the rules of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
M&GPrudentials asset management company, M&G Investment Management Ltd, is also required to maintain capital in accordance with regulatory requirements before making any distribution to the parent company.
Jackson is subject to state laws that limit the dividends payable to its parent company based on statutory capital, surplus and prior year earnings.
Dividends in excess of these limitations require prior regulatory approval.
The Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in Asia may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations and has sufficient distributable reserves.
For further details on local capital regulations in Asia please refer to note C12.2.
b Investments in joint ventures and associates Joint ventures represent arrangements where the controlling parties through contractual or other agreement have the rights to the net assets of the arrangements.
The Group has shareholder-backed joint venture insurance and asset management businesses in China with CITIC Group, and a joint venture asset management business in India with ICICI Bank.
In addition, there is an asset management joint venture in Hong Kong with Bank of China International Holdings Limited BOCI and Takaful insurance joint venture in Malaysia.
The Group has various joint ventures relating to property investments held by the UK with-profits fund.
The results of these joint ventures are reected in the movement in the unallocated surplus of the UK with-profits funds and therefore do not affect shareholders results.
For the Groups joint ventures that are accounted for by using the equity method, the net of tax results of these operations are included in the Groups profit before tax.
The Groups associates, which are also accounted for under the equity method, include the Indian insurance entity with the majority shareholder being ICICI Bank and PPM South Africa.
In addition, the Group has investments in Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts and venture capital investments of the UK with-profits funds where the Group has significant inuence.
As allowed under IAS 28, these investments are accounted for on a fair value through profit or loss basis.
The aggregate fair value of associates accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, where there are published price quotations, is approximately 1.2 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 2.4 billion.
For joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method, the 12 months financial information of these investments up to 31 December covering the same period as that of the Group has been used in these consolidated financial statements.
300 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
