105 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Shareholder and Investor Relations Key themes discussed with shareholders Board oversight andanalystsin 2018 Communications with shareholders are given a high priority bythe Board.
In order to ensure that Board members develop The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is channels of communication are established between directors regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings andshareholders, and that all directors are aware of any issues after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
andconcerns that major shareholders may have.
Patrick Snowball as Chairman, Stuart Sinclair as Interim Chairman The Group engages effectively with shareholders through its and Andrea Blance as senior independent non-executive director regular communications, the Annual General Meeting AGM and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee have all met and other IR activity.
Results and other news releases such as withshareholders during 2018. changes to our strategy and Board composition are published The Board also considers an IR report at each main Board meeting via the London Stock Exchanges RNS.
Any announcements which outlines the general nature of matters communicated published via RNS are also available on the Groups website and discussed with institutional investors, including feedback.
Independent reviews of shareholder views are also commissioned Regular engagement provides investors with an opportunity through an annual perception audit carried out by h2glenfern to discuss particular areas of interest and raise any concerns.
and reviewed by the Board.
The Group collates broker feedback The Group is committed to effectively communicating its from roadshows to present in the IR Board report and allanalyst strategy and understanding shareholders views on its and broker reports on the Group are also distributed toallBoard strategyand performance.
members and the senior management teams.
The Group is committed to delivering attractive and sustainable returns for shareholders and engaging in open and honest dialogue AGM with them regarding the opportunities and risks facing the Group.
Shareholders are invited each year to attend the AGM, where the The Groups website provides shareholders with relevant details Board members are available to answer any questions shareholders regarding the composition of the Board, up to date financial may have.
Facilities are also available to shareholders to submit information and regulatory news, together with detail regarding questions in advance of the meeting and to cast their votes howthe Group meets its Code obligations.
Details of proxy votes cast are published The Group provides quarterly management statements to the via an RNS and on the Groups website.
It is the Companys policy market.
Approved by the Board, the quarterly reporting cycle togive shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM ensures our shareholders are given timely information pertaining and the Notice of the 2019 AGM, together with an explanation of the tothe Groups performance.
items ofbusiness, is contained in the circular to shareholders dated 26 March 2019.
In 2019 the AGM will be held in London for thefirst The annual report and financial statements is the key document time at the offices of Clifford Chance, and further details are set for the Board to communicate its performance and future plans outon page 143 of the Directors Report.
Reviewed in detail by the Board and its Audit Committee, a copy is posted to eligible shareholders and made available on the Groups website.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is shareholders opportunityto ask Board members any questions they may have and to cast their votes for proposed courses of action, including the appointment of Board members and the  Report.
The Board receives an IR Report at each meeting and approves detailed shareholder engagement plans.
106 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Shareholder and Investor Relations continued home credit When will the business gain full When do you expect Satsuma to break even?
The business was granted full authorisation by the FCA in Satsuma is now delivering good volume growth and November 2018.
Management are progressing the dialogue weexpect the business to break even in 2019. with the FCA regarding the implementation of enhanced What is the competitive landscape performance management of CEMs based on a balanced Q like in HCSTC?
scorecard approach and some element of variable pay.
This will be important in returning the business to run-rate The market is less competitive than it has been since Satsuma profitability in due course.
The Group, including home credit, was launched due to the collapse of Wonga and a number still remains under enhanced supervision from the FCA.
offormer payday lenders investing a lot of time and resources in dealing with irresponsible lending complaints from claims Why has collections performance not improved management companies.
Do you have similar problems to Wonga?
Collections performance on credit issued since the last Q quarter of 2017 has performed in line with historic levels.
However, credit originated prior to the change in operating Satsuma has never offered payday loans so it has not model has performed much worse as this was not originated experienced the significant increase in claims for irresponsible by the current CEM and the customer relationship is not lending from claims management companies asexperienced as strong.
by Wonga and other payday lenders.
The cost base for the business is high are you going Q to be able to grow the business?
The business has taken significant action to reduce the cost base in 2018 and again in early 2019.
The focus of 2019 will be on seeking to grow customer numbers.
The implementation Why do new business volumes continue Q of enhanced performance management subject to FCA tobesostrong?
approval will be important in delivering growth.
In addition, Continued development of distribution channels and the the introduction of a new hybrid product is being piloted.
product offering, together with a relatively benign competitive environment as a number of competitors have retrenched When do you expect the business Q tofocus on more prime to near prime offerings.
The focus in 2019 will be on stabilising the customer Why is the business incurring higher levels Q base toset the business up for growth in the future and ofimpairment?
continuingto reduce the cost base, both of which are Following the tightening of underwriting in 2017 and earlier in necessary to return the business to run-rate profitability 2018, default rates stabilised during the second half of 2018. indue course.
What is the impact of falling used car prices Q onimpairmentlevels?
Not significantly material as the business is only exposed tothose vehicles where customers default.
Used car residual values currently remain robust.
When do you expect the FCA investigation Q tobecompleted?
We are working towards a conclusion in the first half of 2019.
107 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance What is the progress with appointing How is the ROP refund programme progressing?
After a rigorous process Patrick Snowball was appointed Progressing in line with plan over 1 million customers inSeptember 2018.
For more detail on the appointment hadbeen refunded by the end of 2018 and the programme process see page 123. is expected to be substantially completed in the first quarter of 2019.
How is the Board being strengthened?
Q Are you seeing any impact from a more uncertain Q economic backdrop on impairment?
Three new non-executive directors with strong sector experience were appointed in July 2018 Angela Knight, The impairment rate in Vanquis Bank has remained stable ElizabethChambers and Paul Hewitt.
which reflects the benefit of the tightening of underwriting we have undertaken over the last 18 months.
We have Why do you hold so much seensome pressure on delinquency and arrears from Q regulatory capital headroom?
morecustomers entering payment arrangements due toenhanced forbearance procedures.
The Board has a risk appetite to hold between 50m and 100m regulatory capital headroom in order to absorb the What has been the impact from the CCMS measures ongoing transitional impact of IFRS 9, to provide a buffer Q on persistent debt?
against the current risks of the business and to maintain a suitable level of equity for debt funders of the nonMinimum due payments were increased in the third bank Group.
quarterof the year and the business will be introducing higher recommended payments in the first quarter of 2019.
Why did Andrew Fisher, Finance Director, These are likely to curtail receivables growth in 2019 as they Q leavethebusiness?
flow through into customer behaviour.
Following restoration of the Groups capital and liquidity Why did Chris Sweeney, Managing Director positions in 2018, he agreed with the Board that he would Q Vanquis Bank, leavethe business?
step down as Finance Director.
Simon Thomas joined asChiefFinancial Officer inDecember 2018.
Following the settlement of the ROP investigation with the FCA and the good progress made in delivering the refund When will the Group return to paying dividends?
programme, it was felt to be an appropriate time to change Q the leadership of Vanquis Bank.
Malcolm Le May, Chief Executive Officer, Provident Financial plc, became Managing Consistent with the commitment at the time of the rights Director of Vanquis Bank on an interim basis whilst the issue, we will be paying a nominal final dividend for 2018. searchfor Chris Sweeneys successor progresses.
Our dividend policy going forward is to maintain a dividend cover of at least 1.4 times as home credit recovers and What is the impact from the FCAs movesinto profitability.
The final rules and guidance in respect of CP17 18 in respect of assessing creditworthiness in consumer credit came into effect on 1 November 2018.
All of the Groups businesses have taken the necessary measures to meet these principles.
We seek to engage regularly with shareholders to ensure  is maintained.
Patrick Snowball Chairman 108 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Shareholder and Investor Relations continued Investor Relations IR programme The Group has a comprehensive IR programme through which the on a one-to-one basis to discuss strategic and other issues, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Head aswellastogive presentations on the Groups results.
of IR engage regularly with the Companys largest shareholders Further communication is achieved through: 2 9 Capital Markets Days An annual perception audit 3 8 The corporate Shareholder 2018 website correspondence ANNUAL REPORT 4 1 7 The Annual Report Investor analyst 6 meetings An annual CR report 5 Attending broker US and European conferences roadshow programmes 1 4 8 The Annual Report Investor analyst meetings Shareholder correspondence This is the most significant communication tool, The Group takes a proactive approach by inviting The Group is committed to responding to ensuring that investors are kept fully informed investors and sell-side analysts to meet with divisional shareholders, regardless of the size of their regarding developments in the Group.
The Group senior management and to visit operational facilities: holding, within two working days of receipt continually strives to produce a clear and transparent ofcorrespondence: and annual report which provides shareholders with 5 US and European acomplete and balanced picture of the Group: 9 An annual perception audit roadshowprogrammes Designed to obtain formal independent feedback 2 Allows overseas investors better access to Capital Markets Day from investors and sell-side analysts.
This enables management, enabling them to receive the same Inviting institutional shareholders and sell-side management to consider and respond to any access to information as investors in the UK.
Usually analysts to an onsite facility or an external location concernsin the investment community.
attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief to provide them with a more detailed insight into the Financial Officer and the Head of IR: Group.
The next Capital Markets Day is expected Additional activities in 2019 to beheld in the third quarter of 2019 to outline the 6 Attending broker conferences To complement the existing IR programme, during Boards future vision for the Group following the 2019 the Chairman will host a number of investor operational recovery in 2018: Management regularly attend and present at various lunches, to allow shareholders to discuss the Group conferences hosted by brokers to ensure that a wide ina more informal setting, and senior management 3 variety of shareholders, including those from different The corporate website willconduct a number of roadshows specifically geographies, have access to senior management: Provides investors with timely information on the targeted at the wealth management community.
Groups performance as well as details of the Groups 7 An annual CR report corporate responsibility CR activities.
The website is fully accessible from either a PC, tablet or smartphone A standalone report clearly demonstrating the without the need for a separate mobile app: significant importance placed on corporate responsibilities within the Group:
