01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  being re-engaged to ensure that they have the opportunity to take part in the review.
Costs arising from this review are met by the excess assets of the UK with-profits sub-fund and hence have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Prudential has given an assurance that these deductions from excess assets will not impact its bonus or investment policy for policies within the with-profits sub-funds that were in force at 31 December 2003.
This assurance does not apply to new business since 1 January 2004.
In the unlikely event that such deductions would affect the bonus or investment policy for the relevant policies, Prudential has stated it would make available support to the sub-fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged: Scottish Amicable Insurance sub-fund policies within this sub-fund a with-profits sub-fund closed to new business contain minimum levels of guaranteed benefit to policyholders.
Should the assets of the sub-fund be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations of the policyholders of SAIF, the UK with-profits sub-fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency in the first instance.
In addition, certain pensions products within this sub-fund have guaranteed annuity rates at retirement, for which a provision of 361 million was held within the sub-fund 31 December 2017: 503 million : and Guaranteed annuities a provision for guaranteed annuity products of 49 million was held 31 December 2017: 53 million in the UK with-profits sub-fund.
Intra-group capital support arrangements Prudential and PAC have put in place intra-group arrangements to formalise circumstances in which capital support would be made available by Prudential.
While Prudential considers it unlikely that such support will be required, the arrangements are intended to provide additional comfort to PAC and its policyholders.
In addition, Prudential has put in place intra-group arrangements to formalise undertakings by Prudential to the regulators of the Hong Kong subsidiaries regarding their solvency levels.
D3 Post balance sheet events Dividends The second interim ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018, that was approved by the Board of Directors after 31 December 2018, is described in note B6.
Renewal of strategic bancassurance alliance with United Overseas Bank Limited In January 2019, the Group announced the renewal of its regional strategic bancassurance alliance with United Overseas Bank Limited UOB.
The new agreement extends the original alliance, which commenced in 2010 to 2034 and increases the geographical scope to include a fifth market, Vietnam, alongside the existing markets across Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia.
As part of this transaction, Prudential has agreed to pay UOB an initial fee of 662 million translated using a Singapore dollar: foreign exchange rate of 1.7360 for distribution rights which is not dependent on future sales volumes.
This amount will be paid in three instalments of 230 million in February 2019, 331 million in January 2020 and 101 million in January 2021.
In line with the Groups policy, these amounts will be capitalised as a distribution rights intangible asset.
D4 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries that are eliminated on consolidation The Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities that are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager which are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and amounts paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
In addition, there are no material transactions between the Groups joint ventures and associates, which are accounted for on an equity method basis and other Group companies.
Executive officers and Directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
In 2018 and 2017, other transactions with Directors were not deemed to be significant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the Directors financial positions.
All of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms-length transactions.
Apart from these transactions with Directors, no Director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the Directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note B2.3.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 299
