D Other notes continued D1 Corporate transactions continued D1.2 Acquisition of TMB Asset Management Co. Ltd. in Thailand In September 2018, the Group completed its initial acquisition of 65 per cent of TMB Asset Management Co. Ltd. TMBAM, an asset management company in Thailand, from TMB Bank Public Limited TMB for 197 million.
The terms of the sale agreement include a call option exercisable by the Group after three years and a put option exercisable by TMB after four years which, if exercised, triggers the purchase of the remaining 35 per cent of the business.
The put option, in line with IFRS, has been recognised as a financial liability and a reduction in shareholders equity of 106 million as of the acquisition date, being the discounted expected consideration payable for the remaining 35 per cent 109 million as of 31 December 2018.
The fair value of the acquired assets, assumed liabilities and resulting goodwill are shown in the table below: 31 Dec 2018 m Assets Intangible assets 5 Other assets 26 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Total assets 33 Other liabilities 10 Non-controlling interests 7 Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 16 Goodwill arising on acquisition 181 Purchase consideration 197 The goodwill on acquisition of 181 million retranslated to 186 million at 31 December 2018 is mainly attributable to the expected benefits from new customers and synergies.
Refer to note C5.1 for changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the year.
The acquisition of TMBAM contributed 18 million to revenue and 5 million to adjusted IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and profit before tax of the Group for the post-acquisition period from 27 September to 31 December 2018.
There is no material impact on the Groups revenue and profit for 2018 if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2018.
D2 Contingencies and related obligations Litigation and regulatory matters In addition to the matters set out in note C11 in relation to the Financial Conduct Authority review of past annuity sales, the Group is involved in various litigation and regulatory issues.
These may from time to time include class actions involving Jackson.
While the outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash ows.
Guarantees Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies and are financed by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The estimated reserve for future guarantee fund assessments is not significant.
The directors believe that sufficient provision has been made on the balance sheet for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third-parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Group does not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
Support for with-profits sub-funds by shareholders funds PAC is liable to meet its obligations to with-profits policyholders even if the assets of the with-profits sub-funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the with-profits sub-funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the with-profits sub-funds to provide financial support.
Matters relating to with-profits sub-funds: Pension mis-selling review the UK insurance regulator required all UK life insurance companies to review sales of personal pensions policies for potential mis-selling.
Offers of redress to all cases were made by 30 June 2002.
Whilst Prudential believed it met the regulators requirements to issue offers of redress to all customers by 30 June 2002 there is a population of customers who, whilst an attempt was made at the time, to invite them to participate in the review, may not have received their invitation.
These customers are 298 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
