A Background and critical accounting policies continued A2 New accounting pronouncements in 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
This standard provides a single framework to recognise revenue for contracts with different characteristics and overrides the revenue recognition requirements previously provided in other standards.
The contracts excluded from the scope of this standard include: Lease contracts within the scope of IAS 17, Leases: Insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts: and Financial instruments within the scope of IAS 39, Financial Instruments.
The main impacts of IFRS 15 for Prudential are to revenue recognition for asset management contracts and investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features but do include investment management services.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 15, the Group has adopted the standard using the full retrospective method for all periods presented.
The only impact on the prior periods presented is a minor reclassification in the consolidated income statement to present certain expenses such as rebates to clients of asset management fees as a deduction against revenue.
Revenue has been reduced by 234 million in 2018 2017: 172 million with a corresponding deduction in expenses.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments and amendments to IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts The IASB published a complete version of IFRS 9 in July 2014 with the exception of macro hedge accounting and the standard is mandatorily effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
In September 2016, the IASB published amendments to IFRS 4, Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts to address the temporary consequences of the different effective dates of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts.
The amendments include an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 and the associated amendments until IFRS 17 comes into effect in 2021.
This temporary exemption is available to companies whose predominant activity is to issue insurance contracts based on meeting the eligibility criteria as at 31 December 2015 as set out in the amendments.
The Group met the eligibility criteria for temporary exemption under the amendments to IFRS 4 from applying IFRS 9 and has accordingly deferred the adoption of IFRS 9.
See note A3.2 for further details on IFRS 9, including the disclosures associated with the temporary exemption.
In November 2018, the IASB tentatively decided that the effective date of IFRS 17 should be delayed by one year from periods ending on or after 1 January 2021 to 1 January 2022.
The IASB also tentatively decided that IFRS 9 could be delayed for insurers by an additional year to keep the effective date of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 aligned.
These changes are yet to be finalised and the Group continues to monitor developments.
Other new accounting pronouncements In addition to the above, the following new accounting pronouncements are also effective from 1 January 2018: IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration: Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payment : Transfers of Investment Property amendments to IAS 40, Investment property : and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle.
These pronouncements have had no effect on the Groups financial statements.
A3 Accounting policies A3.1 Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements This note presents the critical accounting policies, accounting estimates and judgements applied in preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Other significant accounting policies are presented in note E1.
All accounting policies are applied consistently for both years presented and normally are not subject to changes unless new accounting standards, interpretations or amendments are introduced by the IASB.
The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements about the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, which are both recognised and unrecognised eg contingent liabilities in the primary financial statements.
Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning and the fair value of assets as required.
Below are set out those critical accounting policies the application of which requires the Group to make critical estimates and judgements.
Also set out are further critical accounting policies affecting the presentation of the Groups results and other items that require the application of critical estimates and judgements.
180 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
