01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  New business contribution from long-term business operations 2018 m 2017 m UK and UK and Asia US Europe Total Asia US Europe Total note 3 New business contribution 2,604 921 352 3,877 2,368 906 342 3,616 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 40 11 2 53 38 14 3 55 Lapse rates 10% decrease 154 24 17 195 133 24 20 177 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 70 4 1 75 69 4 2 71 Embedded value of long-term business operations 31 Dec 2018 m 31 Dec 2017 m UK and UK and Asia US Europe Total Asia US Europe Total note 8 Shareholders equity 24,329 14,650 11,409 50,388 20,947 13,257 11,713 45,917 Maintenance expenses 10% decrease 254 178 80 512 213 169 64 446 Lapse rates 10% decrease 972 619 87 1,678 753 659 64 1,476 Mortality and morbidity 5% decrease 835 141 294 682 668 214 442 440 Change representing effect on: Life business 835 196 13 1,044 668 214 13 895 Annuities 55 307 362 455 455 13 Methodology and accounting presentation i Methodology Overview The embedded value is the present value of the shareholders interest in the earnings distributable from assets allocated to covered business after sufficient allowance has been made for the aggregate risks in that business.
The shareholders interest in the Groups long-term business comprises: The present value of future shareholder cash flows from in-force covered business value of in-force business, less deductions for: The cost of locked-in required capital: and The time value of cost of options and guarantees: Locked-in required capital: and The shareholders net worth in excess of required capital free surplus.
The value of future new business is excluded from the embedded value.
Notwithstanding the basis of presentation of results as explained in note 13 ii c, no smoothing of market or account balance values, unrealised gains or investment return is applied in determining the embedded value or profit.
Separately, the analysis of profit is delineated between operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and other constituent items, as explained in note 13 ii a. a Covered business The EEV results for the Group are prepared for covered business, as defined by the EEV Principles.
Covered business represents the Groups long-term insurance business, including the Groups investments in joint venture and associate insurance operations, for which the value of new and in-force contracts is attributable to shareholders.
The post-tax EEV basis results for the Groups covered business are then combined with the post-tax IFRS basis results of the Groups asset management and other operations including Group and Asia Regional Head Office, holding company borrowings, Africa operations and Prudential Capital.
Under the EEV Principles, the results for covered business incorporate the projected margins of attaching internal asset management, as described in note 13 i g. The definition of long-term business operations comprises those contracts falling under the definition for regulatory purposes together with, for US operations, contracts that are in substance the same as guaranteed investment contracts GICs but do not fall within the technical definition.
Covered business comprises the Groups long-term business operations, with two exceptions: The closed Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund SAIF which is excluded from covered business.
SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC long-term fund, established by a Court Approved Scheme of Arrangement in October 1997.
SAIF is closed to new business and the assets and liabilities of the fund are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund: and The presentational treatment of the Groups principal defined benefit pension scheme, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS.
The partial recognition of the surplus for PSPS is recognised in Other operations.
A small amount of UK group pensions business is also not modelled for EEV reporting purposes.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 363 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 13 Methodology and accounting presentation continued i Methodology continued b Valuation of in-force and new business The embedded value results are prepared incorporating best estimate assumptions about all relevant factors including levels of future investment returns, expenses, persistency, mortality and morbidity, as described in note 14 vii.
These assumptions are used to project future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the time value of money and the non-diversifiable risks associated with the cash flows that are not otherwise allowed for.
New business In determining the EEV basis value of new business, premiums are included in projected cash flows on the same basis of distinguishing annual and single premium business as set out for statutory basis reporting.
New business premiums reflect those premiums attaching to covered business, including premiums for contracts classified as investment products for IFRS basis reporting.
New business premiums for regular premium products are shown on an annualised basis.
Internal vesting business is classified as new business where the contracts include an open market option.
The post-tax contribution from new business represents profits determined by applying operating and economic assumptions as at the end of the year.
New business profitability is a key metric for the Groups management of the development of the business.
In addition, post-tax new business margins are shown by reference to annual premium equivalents APE and the present value of new business premiums PVNBP.
These margins are calculated as the percentage of the value of new business profit to APE and PVNBP.
APE is calculated as the aggregate of regular premiums on new business written in the period and one-tenth of single premiums.
PVNBP is calculated as the aggregate of single premiums and the present value of expected future premiums from regular premium new business, allowing for lapses and the other assumptions made in determining the EEV new business contribution.
Valuation movements on investments With the exception of debt securities held by Jackson, investment gains and losses during the year to the extent that changes in capital values do not directly match changes in liabilities are included directly in the profit for the year and shareholders equity as they arise.
The results for any covered business conceptually reflect the aggregate of the IFRS results and the movements on the additional shareholders interest recognised on the EEV basis.
Thus the start point for the calculation of the EEV results for Jackson, as for other businesses, reflects the market value movements recognised on an IFRS basis.
However, in determining the movements on the additional shareholders interest, the basis for calculating the EEV result for Jackson acknowledges that, for debt securities backing liabilities, the aggregate EEV results reflect the fact that the value of in-force business instead incorporates the discounted value of future spread earnings.
This value is not affected generally by short-term market movements on securities that, broadly speaking, are held for the longer term.
Fixed income securities backing the free surplus and required capital for Jackson are accounted for at fair value.
However, consistent with the treatment applied under IFRS for Jackson securities classified as available-for-sale, movements in unrealised appreciation depreciation on these securities are accounted for in equity rather than in the income statement, as shown in the movement in shareholders equity.
c Cost of capital A charge is deducted from the embedded value for the cost of locked-in required capital supporting the Groups long-term business.
The cost is the difference between the nominal value of the capital and the discounted value of the projected releases of this capital, allowing for post-tax investment earnings on the capital.
The annual result is affected by the movement in this cost from year to year which comprises a charge against new business profit and generally a release in respect of the reduction in capital requirements for business in force as this runs off.
Where required capital is held within a with-profits long-term fund, the value placed on surplus assets in the fund is already discounted to reflect its expected release over time and no further adjustment is necessary in respect of required capital.
d Financial options and guarantees Nature of financial options and guarantees in Prudentials long-term business Asia Subject to local market circumstances and regulatory requirements, the guarantee features described below in respect of UK and Europe business broadly apply to similar types of participating contracts in Asia which are principally written in Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia.
Participating products have both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements.
There are also various non-participating long-term products with guarantees.
The principal guarantees are those for whole-of-life contracts with floor levels of policyholder benefits that accrue at rates set at inception and do not vary subsequently with market conditions.
364 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  US Jackson The principal financial options and guarantees in Jackson are associated with the fixed annuity FA and variable annuity VA lines of business.
Fixed annuities provide that, at Jacksons discretion, it may reset the interest rate credited to policyholders accounts, subject to a guaranteed minimum.
The guaranteed minimum return varies from 1.0 per cent to 5.5 per cent for both years, depending on the particular product, jurisdiction where issued, and date of issue.
At 31 December 2018, 88 per cent of the account values on fixed annuities are for policies with guarantees of 3 per cent or less 31 December 2017: 87 per cent, and the average guarantee rate is 2.6 per cent for both years.
Fixed annuities also present a risk that policyholders will exercise their option to surrender their contracts in periods of rapidly rising interest rates, possibly requiring Jackson to liquidate assets at an inopportune time.
Jackson issues variable annuity VA contracts for which it contractually guarantees to the contract holder, subject to specific conditions, either: a return of no less than total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals: b total deposits made to the contract adjusted for any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return: or c the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted for any withdrawals following the specified contract anniversary.
These guarantees include benefits that are payable upon depletion of funds Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit GMWB, as death benefits Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits GMDB or as income benefits Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits GMIB.
These guarantees generally protect the policyholders value in the event of poor equity market performance.
Jackson hedges the GMWB and GMDB guarantees through the use of equity options and futures contracts, and essentially fully reinsures the GMIB guarantees.
Jackson also issues fixed index annuities FIA that enable policyholders to obtain a portion of an equity-linked return while providing a guaranteed minimum return.
The guaranteed minimum returns are of a similar nature to those described above for fixed annuities.
UK and Europe M&GPrudential The only significant financial options and guarantees in M&GPrudentials covered business arise in the with-profits fund.
With-profits products provide returns to policyholders through bonuses that are smoothed.
There are two types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are declared once a year and, once credited, are guaranteed in accordance with the terms of the particular product.
Final bonuses are guaranteed only until the next bonus declaration.
The UK with-profits fund also held a provision of 49 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 53 million to honour guarantees on a small number of guaranteed annuity option products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuity options in M&GPrudential is through the non-covered business of SAIF.
A provision of 361 million was held in SAIF at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 503 million to honour the guarantees.
As described in note 13 i a, the assets and liabilities are wholly attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Therefore the movement in the provision has no direct impact on shareholders funds.
Time value The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts: The first part arises from a deterministic valuation on best estimate assumptions the intrinsic value : and The second part arises from the variability of economic outcomes in the future the time value.
Where appropriate, a full stochastic valuation has been undertaken to determine the time value of the financial options and guarantees.
The economic assumptions used for the stochastic calculations are consistent with those used for the deterministic calculations.
Assumptions specific to the stochastic calculations reflect local market conditions and are based on a combination of actual market data, historic market data and an assessment of long-term economic conditions.
Common principles have been adopted across the Group for the stochastic asset models, for example, separate modelling of individual asset classes but with an allowance for correlation between the various asset classes.
Details of the key characteristics of each model are given in notes 14 iv, v and vi.
In deriving the time value of financial options and guarantees, management actions in response to emerging investment and fund solvency conditions have been modelled.
Management actions encompass, but are not confined to, investment allocation decisions, levels of reversionary and terminal bonuses and credited rates.
Bonus rates are projected from current levels and varied in accordance with assumed management actions applying in the emerging investment and fund solvency conditions.
In all instances, the modelled actions are in accordance with approved local practice and therefore reflect the options actually available to management.
For the UK with-profits fund, the actions assumed are consistent with those set out in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management which explains how regular and final bonus rates within the discretionary framework are determined, subject to the general legislative requirements applicable.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 365 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 13 Methodology and accounting presentation continued i Methodology continued e Level of required capital In adopting the EEV Principles, Prudential has based required capital on the applicable local statutory regulations, including any amounts considered to be required above the local statutory minimum requirements to satisfy regulatory constraints.
For with-profits business in Asia and the UK, the available capital in the fund is sufficient to meet the capital requirements.
For M&GPrudential, a portion of future shareholder transfers expected from the with-profits fund is recognised within net worth, together with the associated capital requirements.
For shareholder-backed business, the following capital requirements for long-term business operations apply: Asia: the level of required capital has been set to an amount at least equal to local statutory notification requirements.
For China operations, the level of required capital follows the approach for embedded value reporting issued by the China Association of Actuaries CAA reflecting the C-ROSS regime: US: the level of required capital has been set at 250 per cent of the risk-based capital RBC required by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC at the Company Action Level CAL : and UK and Europe: the capital requirements are set at the Solvency II Solvency Capital Requirement SCR for shareholder-backed business as a whole.
Following the announced demerger, from 1 January 2018 this does not allow for diversification outside the planned perimeter of the business to be demerged.
f With-profits business and the treatment of the estate The proportion of surplus allocated to shareholders from the UK with-profits fund has been based on the present level of 10 per cent.
The value attributed to the shareholders interest in the estate is derived by increasing final bonus rates and related shareholder transfers so as to exhaust the estate over the lifetime of the in-force with-profits business.
In any scenarios where the total assets of the life fund are insufficient to meet policyholder claims in full, the excess cost is fully attributed to shareholders.
Similar principles apply, where appropriate, for other with-profits funds of the Groups Asia operations.
g Internal asset management The in-force and new business results from long-term business include the projected value of profits or losses from asset management and service companies that support the Groups covered insurance businesses.
The results of the Groups asset management operations include the current year profits from the management of both internal and external funds.
EEV basis shareholders other income and expenditure is adjusted to deduct the unwind of the expected internal asset management profit margin for the year as included in Other operations.
The deduction is on a basis consistent with that used for projecting the results for covered insurance business.
Group operating profit accordingly includes the variance between actual and expected profit in respect of management of the assets for covered business.
h Allowance for risk and risk discount rates Overview Under the EEV Principles, discount rates used to determine the present value of future cash flows are set by reference to risk-free rates plus a risk margin.
For Asia and the US, the risk-free rates are based on 10-year local government bond yields.
For UK and Europe, the EEV risk-free rate is based on the full term structure of interest rates, ie a yield curve, which is used to determine the embedded value at the end of the reporting period.
The risk margin should reflect any non-diversifiable risk associated with the emergence of distributable earnings that is not allowed for elsewhere in the valuation.
In order to better reflect differences in relative market risk volatility inherent in each product group, Prudential sets the risk discount rates to reflect the expected volatility associated with the cash flows for each product category in the embedded value model, rather than at a Group level.
Since financial options and guarantees are explicitly valued under the EEV methodology, risk discount rates under EEV are set excluding the effect of these product features.
The risk margin represents the aggregate of the allowance for market risk, additional allowance for credit risk where appropriate, and allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risk.
No allowance is required for non-market risks where these are assumed to be fully diversifiable.
Market risk allowance The allowance for market risk represents the beta multiplied by an equity risk premium.
Except for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as explained below, such an approach has been used for the Groups businesses.
The beta of a portfolio or product measures its relative market risk.
The risk discount rates reflect the market risk inherent in each product group and hence the volatility of product cash flows.
These are determined by considering how the profits from each product are affected by changes in expected returns on various asset classes.
By converting this into a relative rate of return, it is possible to derive a product-specific beta.
Product level betas reflect the most recent product mix to produce appropriate betas and risk discount rates for each major product grouping.
366 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Additional credit risk allowance The Groups methodology is to allow appropriately for credit risk.
The allowance for total credit risk is to cover: Expected long-term defaults: Credit risk premium to reflect the volatility in downgrade and default levels : and Short-term downgrades and defaults.
These allowances are initially reflected in determining best estimate returns and through the market risk allowance described above.
However, for those businesses largely backed by holdings of debt securities, these allowances in the projected returns and market risk allowances may not be sufficient and an additional allowance may be appropriate.
The practical application of the allowance for credit risk varies depending upon the type of business as described below: Asia For Asia, the allowance for credit risk incorporated in the projected rates of return and the market risk allowance are considered to be sufficient.
Accordingly, no additional allowance for credit risk is required.
The projected rates of return for holdings of corporate bonds comprise the risk-free rate plus an assessment of long-term spread over the risk-free rate.
US Jackson For Jackson business, the allowance for long-term defaults of 0.17 per cent 31 December 2017: 0.19 per cent is reflected in the risk margin reserve RMR charge that is deducted in determining the projected spread margin between the earned rate on the investments and the policyholder crediting rate.
The risk discount rate incorporates an additional allowance for credit risk premium and short-term downgrades and defaults 0.2 per cent for variable annuity business and 1.0 per cent for non-variable annuity business for both years, as shown in note 14 ii.
In determining this allowance a number of factors have been considered.
These factors, in particular, include: How much of the credit spread on debt securities represents an increased short-term credit risk not reflected in the RMR long-term default assumptions, and how much is liquidity premium which is the premium required by investors to compensate for the risk of longer-term investments which cannot be easily converted into cash at the fair market value.
In assessing this effect, consideration has been given to a number of approaches to estimating the liquidity premium by considering recent statistical data: and Policyholder benefits for Jackson fixed annuity business are not fixed.
It is possible in adverse economic scenarios to pass on a component of credit losses to policyholders subject to guarantee features through lower investment returns credited to policyholders.
Consequently, it is only necessary to allow for the balance of the credit risk in the risk discount rate.
The level of the additional allowance is assessed at each reporting period to take account of prevailing credit conditions and as the business in force alters over time.
The additional allowance for variable annuity business has been set at one-fifth of the non-variable annuity business to reflect the proportion of the allocated holdings of general account debt securities.
The level of allowance differs from that for UK annuity business for investment portfolio differences and to take account of the management actions available in adverse economic scenarios to reduce crediting rates to policyholders, subject to guarantee features of the products.
UK and Europe M&GPrudential 1 Shareholder-backed annuity business For shareholder-backed annuity business, Prudential has used a market consistent embedded value MCEV approach to derive an implied risk discount rate which is then applied to the projected best estimate cash flows.
In the annuity MCEV calculations, as the assets are generally held to maturity to match liabilities, the future cash flows are discounted using the swap yield curve plus an allowance for liquidity premium based on the Solvency II allowance for credit risk.
The Solvency II allowance is set by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA using a prudent assumption that all future downgrades will be replaced annually, and allowing for the credit spread floor.
For the purposes of presentation in the EEV results, the results produced on this basis are reconfigured.
Under this approach the projected earned rate of return on the debt securities held is determined after allowing for a best estimate credit risk allowance.
The remaining elements of prudence within the Solvency II allowance are incorporated into the risk margin included in the discount rate, shown in note 14 iii.
2 With-profits fund non-profit annuity business For non-profit annuity business attributable to the UK with-profits fund, the basis for determining the aggregate allowance for credit risk is consistent with that applied for UK shareholder-backed annuity business as described above.
The allowance for credit risk for this business is taken into account in determining the projected cash flows from the with-profits fund, which are in turn discounted at the risk discount rate applicable to all of the projected cash flows from the fund.
3 With-profits fund holdings of debt securities The with-profits fund holds debt securities as part of its investment portfolio backing policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus.
The assumed earned rate for with-profit holdings of corporate bonds is defined as the risk-free rate plus an assessment of the long-term spread over riskfree, net of expected long-term defaults.
This approach is similar to that applied for equities and properties for which the projected earned rate is defined as the risk-free rate plus a long-term risk premium.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 367 Notes on the EEV basis results continued 13 Methodology and accounting presentation continued i Methodology continued Allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risks The majority of non-market and non-credit risks are considered to be diversifiable.
An allowance for non-diversifiable non-market risks is estimated as set out below: A base level allowance of 50 basis points is applied to cover the non-diversifiable non-market risks associated with the Groups businesses.
For the Groups Asia operations in Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, additional allowances are applied for emerging market risk ranging from 100 to 250 basis points.
The level of these allowances are reviewed and updated based on an assessment of a range of pre-defined emerging market risk indicators, as well as the Groups exposure and experience in the business units.
At 31 December 2018, the China allowance for non-market risk was reduced reflecting the growth in the size of the business, increasing management exposure and experience in the country and an improvement in our risk assessment of the market.
For the Groups US business and UK and Europe business, no additional allowance is necessary.
i Foreign currency translation Foreign currency profits and losses have been translated at average exchange rates for the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities have been translated at year-end exchange rates.
The principal exchange rates are shown in note A1 of the IFRS financial statements.
j Taxation In determining the post-tax profit for the year for covered business, the overall tax rate includes the impact of tax effects determined on a local regulatory basis.
Tax payments and receipts included in the projected cash flows to determine the value of in-force business are calculated using rates that have been announced and substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
k Inter-company arrangements The EEV results for covered business incorporate annuities established in the PAC non-profit sub-fund from vesting pension policies in SAIF which is not covered business.
The EEV results also incorporate the effect of the reinsurance arrangement of non-profit immediate pension annuity liabilities of SAIF to the PAC non-profit sub-fund.
ii Accounting presentation a Analysis of post-tax profit To the extent applicable, the presentation of the EEV post-tax profit for the year is consistent with the classification between operating and non-operating results with the basis that the Group applies for the analysis of IFRS basis results.
Operating results reflect underlying results including longer-term investment returns, which are determined as described in note 13 ii b and incorporate the following: New business contribution, as defined in note 13 i b : Unwind of discount on the value of in-force business and other expected returns, as described in note 13 ii c : The impact of routine changes of estimates relating to operating assumptions, as described in note 13 ii d : and Operating experience variances, as described in note 13 ii e. Non-operating results comprise: Short-term fluctuations in investment returns: The mark to market value movements on core structural borrowings: The effect of changes in economic assumptions: and The impact of corporate transactions undertaken in the year.
In addition, operating results include the effect of changes in tax legislation, unless these changes are one-off and structural in nature, such as the impact of the US tax reform in 2017 see note 16, or primarily affect the level of projected investment returns, in which case they are reflected as a non-operating result.
Total profit attributable to shareholders and basic earnings per share include these items, together with actual investment returns.
The Group believes that operating profit, as adjusted for these items, better reflects underlying performance.
For M&GPrudential, the embedded value incorporates Solvency II transitional measures, which are recalculated using managements estimate of the impact of operating and market conditions at the valuation date.
The impact of this recalculation is recorded within the corresponding component of the analysis of post-tax profit.
b Investment returns included in operating profit For the investment element of the assets covering the net worth of long-term insurance business, investment returns are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
These expected returns are calculated by reference to the asset mix of the portfolio.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating result of the with-profits fund of M&GPrudential, where assets backing the liabilities and unallocated surplus are subject to market volatility, asset values at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market movements as explained in note 13 ii c. 368 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
