98 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc Limited have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Income Statement of the parent Company is not presented with these Financial Statements.
The retained profit of the parent Company is shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Details of dividends paid are included in Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The entity satisfies the criteria of being a qualifying entity as defined in FRS 101.
Its Financial Statements are consolidated into the Group Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc, which are included within this Annual Report.
The Shareholders of the Company were notified of the exemptions to be taken by way of an RNS announcement on 4 July 2016 and the Shareholders have not objected to the use of the exemptions taken.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Financial Statements, are disclosed below.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements, inaccordance with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments details of the number and weighted average exercise prices ofshare options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined : IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements comparative information requirements in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment: iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible Assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end oftheperiod : The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: i 10 d statement of cash flows : ii 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : iii 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements : iv 38B-D additional comparative information : v 111 cash flow statement information : and vi 134-136 capital management disclosures : IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective : Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures key management compensation : The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
