106 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Further statutory and other information Health & Safety Auditor PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations Deloitte LLP has signified its willingness to continue in office in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business and a resolution for its appointment will be proposed at the activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
accordance with the relevant statutory legislation, and that employees at all levels participate in the development, Directors report of PZ Cussons Plc promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working For the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The the report of the Directors of PZ Cussons Plc for the year Company employs Health & Safety specialists and, where ended 31 May 2018 comprises this page and the information appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 4 to 7.
The Company continues to monitor and increase standards of Registered office Health & Safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, Manchester Business Park formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in 3500 Aviator Way plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and Manchester operate safer and more efficient processes.
M22 5TG Employment and staff development Registered number As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our Company registered number 00019457 operations in developing countries, we focus resources on the employment and development of local staff with the intention Registrars of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decision Computershare Investor Services Plc making throughout the Group with effective communication The Pavilions via regular consultation groups and briefings.
Training is vital to Bridgwater Road ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over Bristol the past year employees of all grades have received training BS13 8AE through a wide range of courses.
Company Secretary The employment policies of the Group embody the principles S P Plant of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets, which are tailored to meet the needs of its businesses and the areas in which they operate.
This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and subsequent training and career development.
The Company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
Community and charity We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK-based shareholding trust, with additional contributions made through staff time and gifts in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations to significant global fundraising initiatives and recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are committed to establishing and maintaining strong relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
