Shareholder Information & Contacts Disclaimer Annual General Meeting Registered office The purpose of this document is to provide The Annual General Meeting will be held PZ Cussons Plc information to the members of PZCussons Plc.
Thisdocument contains certain statements that at 10.30am on Wednesday 26 September Manchester Business Park areforward-looking statements.
These statements 2018 at: 3500 Aviator Way appear in a number of places throughout this Manchester Strategic Report and include statements regarding PZ Cussons Plc our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and M22 5TG Manchester Business Park those of our officers, Directors and employees 3500 Aviator Way Tel: 0161 435 1000 concerning, among other things, our results of Manchester operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, www.
com growth, strategies and the business we operate.
M22 5TG Registered number By their nature, these statements involve Financial calendar uncertainty since future events and circumstances Company registration number can cause results and developments to differ The key dates for PZ Cussons financial 00019457 materially from those anticipated.
The forwardcalendar are available on our website looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation www.
com Registrars ofthis document and unless otherwise required bythe applicable law the Company undertakes Computershare Investor Services Plc noobligation to update or revise these forwardThe Pavilions looking statements.
Nothing in this document Bridgwater Road should be construed as a profit forecast.
Bristol The Company and its Directors accept no liability tothird parties inrespect of this document save BS13 8AE aswould arise under English law.
com This report has been printed in the UK.
Our printers Company Secretary are accredited with ISO14001 and hold FSC chain of custody certification.
They are also carbon S P Plant neutral.
All inks used are vegetable-based.
The paper is fully recyclable and biodegradable and isanFSCcertified material.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, or recycle it.
This Strategic Report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com Read more about our Directorson pages 2 and 3 oftheGovernance .
PZCussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 PZCussons Plc Manchester Business Park 3500 Aviator Way Manchester M22 5TG Tel: 0161 435 1000 www.
com Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Creating sustainable value for all PZ Cussons is a dynamic consumer products group and innovator of some of the worlds best known andloved brands.
For more than 130 years, we have operated in selected developed and emerging markets that present the greatest strategic potential for future growth.
Our agile operating model and world-class supply chain and distribution networks enable us to meet consumer needs and deliver quality brands that add value and enhance everyday lives.
Contents Our 2018 Report Our Annual Report is split into two distinct reporting sections: a Strategic Report, and Governance Governance and Financial Statements.
These documents are to be read in conjunction 1 Chairs letter to shareholders witheachother.
2 Board of Directors 4 Report of the Directors Strategic Report 8 Statement of the Chair of the The Strategic Report takes Remuneration Committee a strategic look at how the 10 Report on Directors Remuneration Group operates and provides 10 Directors Remuneration Policy insight into our strategy, 17 Annual Report on Remuneration business model, people 26 Statement of the Chair of the andvision.
Nomination Committee 28 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee Governance and Online 32 Report on Corporate Governance Digital, downloadable copies of the Financial Statements tworeports are available online at: The Governance and Financial Statements provides an Financial Statements in-depth analysis of the 38 Independent Auditors Report to www.
com Groups annual results and theMembers of PZ Cussons Plc governance processes.
47 Consolidated Income Statement 48 Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income 49 Consolidated Balance Sheet 50 Consolidated Statement ofChangesinEquity 51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 52 Notes to the Consolidated FinancialStatements 96 Company Balance Sheet 97 Company Statement ofChangesinEquity 98 Notes to the Company FinancialStatements
