52 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information PZ Cussons Plc is a public limited company that is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 108.
These Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and have been presented in m. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 1.
Accounting policies The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRS IC.
The preparation of Financial Statements, in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty canbe found on page 63.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the annual reporting period commencing 1June 2017: Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12: and Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014-16 Cycle IFRS 12 Amendments.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the 31 May 2018 reporting period and have not been early adopted by the Group.
The Group will undertake an assessment of the impact of the following new standards and interpretations in due course: IFRIC 22 'Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration': IFRS 2 'Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions': Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 'Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture': IFRIC 23 'Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments': and Amendments to IAS 28 'Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures'.
The Group has undertaken an assessment of the impact of the following new standards, which is shown in the table on page 53: IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments': IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers': and IFRS 16 'Leases'.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
