98 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc Limited have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Income Statement of the parent Company is not presented with these Financial Statements.
The retained profit of the parent Company is shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Details of dividends paid are included in Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The entity satisfies the criteria of being a qualifying entity as defined in FRS 101.
Its Financial Statements are consolidated into the Group Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc, which are included within this Annual Report.
The Shareholders of the Company were notified of the exemptions to be taken by way of an RNS announcement on 4 July 2016 and the Shareholders have not objected to the use of the exemptions taken.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Financial Statements, are disclosed below.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements, inaccordance with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments details of the number and weighted average exercise prices ofshare options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined : IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements comparative information requirements in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment: iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible Assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end oftheperiod : The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: i 10 d statement of cash flows : ii 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : iii 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements : iv 38B-D additional comparative information : v 111 cash flow statement information : and vi 134-136 capital management disclosures : IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective : Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures key management compensation : The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 99 1.
Accounting policies continued Restatement The prior year restatement relates to a prior year error of an overstatement of administrative expenses of 3.5 m, with a corresponding overstatement of creditors due within one year.
This has been recognised as a prior year error in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors with the Financial Statements restated as appropriate.
The impact of the prior year adjustment is shown in the tables below: Consolidated Balance Sheet 2017 m 2016 m As As previously previously reported Adjustment Restated reported Adjustment Restated Creditors amounts falling due within one year 404.2 3.5 400.7 380.3 380.3 Net assets 35.6 3.5 39.1 34.1 34.1 Profit and loss account 30.6 3.5 34.1 29.1 29.1 Total shareholders' funds 35.6 3.5 39.1 34.1 34.1 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 2017 m As previously Profit and loss account reported Adjustment Restated At 1 June 29.1 29.1 Profit for the year 39.9 3.5 43.4 As at 31 May 30.6 3.5 34.1 Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains or losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The Companys functional currency is Sterling as this is the functional currency of the principal operating environment of the Company.
The Company Financial Statements have been presented in Sterling and have been rounded to 0.1 of a million.
Current tax The current tax liability asset directly relates to the actual tax payable receivable on the Companys profits and is determined based on tax laws and regulations in effect at the year end date.
Assumptions and judgements are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the period in which it is determined.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Balance Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
100 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial instruments utilised by the Company during the years ended 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: Current asset investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Companys Balance Sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term in nature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings and current asset investments approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis through the Income Statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Intercompany debtors Intercompany debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of intercompany debtors is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the debtors and is measured as the difference between carrying value and present value of estimated future cash flows.
Subsequent recoveries of previously impaired intercompany debtors are recognised as a credit to profit.
Intercompany creditors Intercompany creditors are not interest bearing and are initially stated at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 101 1.
Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary companies, the fair value of the award is treated as a capital contribution by the Company and the investments in subsidiaries are adjusted to reflect this capital contribution.
The carrying amounts of the Companys investments are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indicator of impairment.
If any such indicator exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher ofanassets fair value less costs to sell or its value-in-use.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of the investment, or its cash-generating unit, exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
An impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment may no longer exist and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are not capitalised: they are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Own shares held by ESOT Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee Share Option Trust ESOT are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore reflected in the Companys Financial Statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited directly to equity.
Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to the Companys Shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Companys Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
In respect of interim dividends these are recognised once paid.
Share-based payments The Company operates a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior executives, all of which involve equity-settled share-based payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the period to which the performance relates based on the expected outcome of the vesting conditions.
At each Balance Sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the change will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
