52 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information PZ Cussons Plc is a public limited company that is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 108.
These Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and have been presented in m. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 1.
Accounting policies The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRS IC.
The preparation of Financial Statements, in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty canbe found on page 63.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the annual reporting period commencing 1June 2017: Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12: and Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014-16 Cycle IFRS 12 Amendments.
The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current period or any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the 31 May 2018 reporting period and have not been early adopted by the Group.
The Group will undertake an assessment of the impact of the following new standards and interpretations in due course: IFRIC 22 'Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration': IFRS 2 'Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions': Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 'Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture': IFRIC 23 'Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments': and Amendments to IAS 28 'Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures'.
The Group has undertaken an assessment of the impact of the following new standards, which is shown in the table on page 53: IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments': IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers': and IFRS 16 'Leases'.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 53 Applicable Key requirements or changes Implementation progress and expected impact standard in accounting policy IFRS 9 This standard introduces new requirements During the year ended 31 May 2018, the Group has conducted in three areas: preparations for the new requirements in IFRS 9.
Financial Instruments Classification and measurement: Classification and measurement: Effective from the Financial assets will now be classified based The Group will assess its quasi-equity loans in terms of the business year ending 31 May on 1 the objective of the Group in holding model assessment and the SPPI Solely Payments of Principal and 2019 the asset and 2 an assessment of whether Interest tests.
The results of this assessment are ongoing.
the contractual cash flows are solely The standard has The Groups investment in equities will be measured at fair value payments of principal and interest.
been endorsed by under IFRS 9, rather than atcost as they are currently.
This is not the EU anticipated to have a material impact.
Impairment: A new expected credit loss model will be It is anticipated that all other assets within the scope of IFRS 9 will be used for calculating impairment on financial measured at amortised cost, as they are held to collect contractual assets.
A loss event does not have to occur cash flows and pass the SPPI test.
before credit losses are recognised.
Impairment: Hedge accounting: For trade receivables, we will make minor refinements to our New general hedge accounting calculation methodology to be more specific about ageing.
The requirements will allow hedge accounting impact of applying this will be immaterial.
For other financial assets based on the Groups risk management the expected impact of applying the new expected loss model is still policies.
Hedge accounting: Consistent with the non-complex nature of the Groups financial instruments, we have concluded that there will not be a material impact of IFRS 9.
Our current hedge relationships will qualify ashedges on adoption of IFRS 9.
The standard clarifies the accounting for We have completed our review of the requirements of IFRS 15 IFRS 15 bundled services and identifying each against our existing accounting policies, in particular for trade Revenue from performance obligation in contractual expenditure and bad debts.
It also provides more Customers For trade promotional expenditure adjustments required guidance on the measurement of revenue underIFRS15, we expect a reduction ofcirca20m to statutory Effective from the contracts that have discounts, rebates, year ending 31 May reported revenue.
payments to suppliers and consignment 2019 stock.
We do not expect any material adjustments in respect of bad debts.
The standard has been endorsed by the EU This standard changes the recognition, Due to the number of countries we operate in, significant work is IFRS 16 Leases measurement, presentation and disclosure required to estimate the assets and liabilities that will need to be Effective from the of leases.
In particular it requires lessees to recognised on adoption of the new standard.
year ending 31 May record all leases on the Balance Sheet with 2020 Due to the changes in the definition of a lease term and potential exemptions available for low value and shortembedded leases that we believe need to be identified and The standard has term leases.
been endorsed by recognised on the Balance Sheet, it has not yet been possible toestimate the amount of right of use assets and lease liabilities the EU that will be recognised on theBalance Sheet.
We have also not yet decided which exemptions will be adopted.
During the year ended 31 May 2018 we established a project team and began an initial impact assessment exercise.
We expect to conclude preparations by the end of the next financial year in order to report on the impact accordingly.
54 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Change in accounting policy The Group changed its accounting policy for the recognition of surpluses in its defined benefit pension schemes: in particular, the policy for determining whether or not it has an unconditional right to a refund of surpluses in its employee pension funds.
Where the Group has a right to a refund, this is not deemed unconditional if pension fund trustees are able unilaterally to wind up the scheme and distribute the surplus to members.
The revised accounting policy, by taking account of the powers of pension trustees in assessing the economic benefit available as a refund, provides enhanced information about the effect on the Groups financial position of its defined benefit pension schemes.
This change in accounting policy has resulted in the Group fide-recognising the pension surplus in relation to the expatriate defined benefit scheme.
In accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the amended policy has been applied retrospectively and prior periods restated.
The impacts of the change in policy are shown in the tables below: Consolidated Income Statement 2018 m 2017 m Under As previous As previously policy Adjustment published reported Adjustment Restated Administrative expenses 89.4 1.3 90.7 93.0 1.5 94.5 Operating profit 73.5 1.3 72.2 90.8 1.5 89.3 Profit before tax 67.9 1.3 66.6 88.0 1.5 86.5 Tax 18.0 0.2 17.8 21.1 0.3 21.4 Profit for the year 49.9 1.1 48.8 66.9 1.8 65.1 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 48.8 1.1 47.7 64.2 1.8 62.4 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 2018 m 2017 m Under As previous As previously policy Adjustment published reported Adjustment Restated Profit for the year 49.9 1.1 48.8 66.9 1.8 65.1 Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations 31.2 4.5 26.7 1.9 3.1 5.0 Deferred tax on remeasurement of post-employment obligations 5.5 1.0 4.5 0.5 0.6 1.1 Other comprehensive expense for the year net of taxation 1.7 3.5 5.2 53.1 2.5 55.6 Consolidated Balance Sheet 2018 m 2017 m 2016 m Under As As previous previously previously policy Adj As published reported Adj Restated reported Adj Restated Retirement benefit surplus 90.3 57.0 33.3 55.4 51.3 4.1 51.3 46.7 4.6 Total assets 1,076.1 57.0 1,019.1 1,169.0 51.3 1,117.7 1,169.4 46.7 1,122.7 Deferred taxation liabilities 53.9 9.7 44.2 48.1 8.7 39.4 48.2 8.4 39.8 Retained earnings 583.7 47.3 536.4 543.9 42.6 501.3 515.7 38.3 477.4 Equity attributable to owners ofthe parent 509.5 47.3 462.2 492.7 42.6 450.1 503.4 38.3 465.1 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 2018 m 2017 m Under As previously previous As Retained earnings policy Adjustment published reported Adjustment Restated At 1 June 543.9 42.6 501.3 515.7 38.3 477.4 Profit for the year 48.8 1.1 47.7 64.2 1.8 62.4 Remeasurement of post-employment obligations 31.2 4.5 26.7 1.9 3.1 5.0 Deferred tax on remeasurement of post-employment obligations 5.5 1.0 4.5 0.5 0.6 1.1 As at 31 May 583.7 47.3 536.4 543.9 42.6 501.3 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 55 1.
Accounting policies continued The 2017 values for basic EPS and adjusted EPS have also been restated for the impact of the pension surplus fide-recognition.
Previously reported basic EPS 2017: 15.34p, restated basic EPS 2017: 14.91p.
Previously reported adjusted EPS 2017: 16.85p, re-stated adjusted basic EPS 2017: 16.42p.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31 May each year.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficit below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Income Statement and the interest of non-controlling interests is stated as the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Comprehensive income attributable to the non-controlling interests is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests recognising a deficit balance.
The interest of non-controlling interests in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Where non-controlling interests are acquired, the excess of cost over the value of the non-controlling interest acquired is recorded in equity.
Where necessary, the accounts of subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The fair value of consideration of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value and fair value less costs-to-sell.
All acquisition costs are expensed as incurred as exceptional items.
Where acquisitions are achieved in stages, commonly referred to as stepped acquisitions, and result in control being obtained by the Group as part of a transaction, the Group re-assesses the fair value of its existing interest in joint ventures as part of determining the fair value of consideration.
In determining the fair value of the Groups existing interest, reference is given to the fair value of consideration paid to increase the Groups interest in joint ventures as well as considering the specific fair values of assets and liabilities transferred to gain control.
Any increase or impairment of the Groups existing interest will be credited charged to the Income Statement as an exceptional item.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
56 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill also includes amounts to reflect deferred tax liabilities established in relation to acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Interests in joint ventures Under IFRS 11, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
PZ Cussons Plc has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Assets held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs-to-sell.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, trade spend, rebates and sales-related taxes but including interest receivable on sales on extended credit.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, which is generally on receipt or collection by customers.
Should management consider that the criteria for recognition are not met, revenue is deferred until such time as the consideration has been fully earned.
Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to reflect the expected promotional activity and our historical experience.
These accruals are reported within trade and other payables.
Trade promotions The Group provides for amounts payable to trade customers for promotional activity.
Where a promotional activity spans across the year end, an accrual is reflected in the Group accounts based on our expectation of customer and consumer uptake during the promotional period and the extent to which temporary promotional activity has occurred.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease even when payments are not made on such a basis.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 57 1.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies The individual Financial Statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each entity are presented in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentational currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In preparing the Financial Statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or at average rates of exchange if they represent a suitable approximation to the actual rate.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign operations Income Statements and Balance Sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the Income Statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Finance income and costs Finance income is earned on bank deposits and finance costs are incurred on bank borrowings.
Both are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Government grants Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reflected in the Balance Sheet as deferred income and credited to the Income Statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Government grants relating to income are reflected in the Balance Sheet as deferred income and credited to the Income Statement over the period to which the grant relates.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit of the Group including share of joint venture profit before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
Retirement benefit obligations As set out on page 54 the Group has revised its accounting policy for determining whether or not it has an unconditional right to a refund of surpluses in its employee pension funds.
The change has been applied retrospectively and comparatives restated, as required by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the UK and for most overseas countries in which it carries out business.
Those in the UK are defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes: overseas schemes vary in detail depending on local practice.
The UK defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008.
The Group accounts for the defined benefit scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
58 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The deficit surplus of the defined benefit pension schemes is recognised on the Balance Sheet with surpluses only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund and represents the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
A full actuarial valuation is carried out at least every three years and the defined benefit obligation surplus is updated on an annual basis, by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Pension charges income recognised in the Income Statement consists of administration charges of the scheme and a cost based on the interest income on net pension scheme liabilities surpluses calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
Differences between the actual return on assets and interest income, experience gains and losses and changes in actuarial assumptions are included directly in the Groups Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Exceptional items The Group adopts a columnar Income Statement format to highlight significant items within the Groups results for the year.
Such items are considered by the Directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the underlying trading of the Group, and may include, but are not limited to, items such as certain foreign exchange losses, restructuring costs, acquisition related costs, material impairments of non-current assets, or, for example, receivables, material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant, equipment and brands, material pension settlements and amendments and profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations.
The Directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their magnitude and nature should be disclosed in a separate column of the Income Statement and notes to the Financial Statements as Exceptional items.
The Directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
The Directors believe that the adjusted presentation assists shareholders by providing a more meaningful basis upon which to analyse underlying business performance and make year-on-year comparisons.
The same measures are used by management for planning, budgeting and reporting purposes and for the internal assessment of operating performance across the Group.
The adjusted presentation is adopted on a consistent basis for each of the half year and full year results.
Taxation Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been in effect throughout the year.
The Group makes provisions for current tax payable based on the Directors best estimate of likely tax liabilities that may arise based on interpretations of current and expected tax legislation.
Where tax legislation is not clear or is ambiguous the Directors make estimates of potential tax exposures that are reviewed and revised as additional information becomes available.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Balance Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 59 1.
Accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
The Group continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods that are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities.
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities.
In assessing these income tax uncertainties, management is required to make judgements in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the circumstances, facts and other relevant information in respect of the tax position taken together with estimates of amounts that may be required to be paid in ultimate settlement with the tax authorities.
As the Group operates in a multinational tax environment, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often complex and subject to change.
Original estimates are always refined as additional information becomes known.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held at the date of transition to IFRS for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the Balance Sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Leasehold buildings at rates that will reduce the book value to nil on or before the termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% Plant and machinery not less than 8% Fixtures, fittings and vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Income Statement for the year.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each Balance Sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Property, plant and equipment that suffer impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each Balance Sheet date.
Other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the Balance Sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings are separately identifiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Brands acquired as part of a business combination are recorded in the Balance Sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Trademarks, patents and purchased brands are recorded at purchase cost.
In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and more frequently where there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
60 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Brands currently held are not amortised as the Directors believe they have indefinite lives due to their market-leading nature.
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and renovation and sustained and rising marketing particularly media investment.
A brand typically comprises an assortment of base products and more innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite life brands are allocated to the cash-generating units to which they relate and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income.
Profit or losses on disposal of brands are included within operating profit within exceptional items.
Software development Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable software products and systems are capitalised if the product or systems meet the following criteria: the completion of the development is technically and commercially feasible to complete: adequate technical resources are sufficiently available to complete development: it can be demonstrated that future economic benefits are probable: and the expenditure attributable to the development can be measured reliably.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or systems.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software product or system include employee costs.
Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria as well as ongoing maintenance are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs for software are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and are amortised over their useful lives not exceeding ten years at the point at which they come into use.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated based on standard costs with material price and usage variances apportioned using the Periodic Unit Pricing method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Where net realisable value is lower than cost, provision for impairment is made that is charged to cost of sales in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables and is measured as the difference between carrying value and present value of estimated future cash flows.
Subsequent recoveries of previously impaired trade receivables are recognised as a credit to profit.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Short-term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of deposit.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Where the Group has the legally enforceable right, and has settled balances on a net basis at the reporting date, bank overdrafts and cash balances are offset and presented on a net basis within the Financial Statements.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 61 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet.
c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets include current asset investments, which relate to unlisted equity investments.
These are held at cost because their fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of direct issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis through the Income Statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the year in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
62 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of itsliabilities.
Investments Investments other than interests in joint ventures are recognised and fide-recognised on a trade date when a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value.
Investments are classified as available for sale.
Subsequently, investments are measured at cost because those are investments in unquoted equities for which a fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Loans to joint ventures, presented in the Balance Sheet as investments are classified as loans and receivables and measured at amortised cost.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such ordinary shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve represents the accumulated movements in the Groups derivative financial instruments that have been designated as hedging instruments.
Amounts are transferred in and out of the reserve on the revaluation, or realisation, of identified hedging instruments.
Capital redemption reserve Amounts in respect of the redemption of certain of the Companys ordinary shares are recognised in the capital redemption reserve.
Currency translation reserve On translation of the Groups overseas operations from their local functional currency to the Groups presentational currency, foreign exchange differences arise, the cumulative effect of which are recognised in the currency translation reserve.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are identified in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Board.
For reporting purposes, in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Board aggregates operating segments with similar economic characteristics and conditions into reporting segments, which form the basis of the reporting in the Annual Report, with the CODM identifying three reporting segments being Africa, Asia and Europe.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 63 1.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The Group operates a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior executives, both of which involve equity-settled share-based payments.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme were measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date was expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting period based on the expected outcome of the performance and service conditions.
At each Balance Sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
In respect of interim dividends these are recognised once paid.
Accounting estimates and judgements The Groups significant accounting policies under IFRS have been set by management with the approval of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The application of these policies requires management to make assumptions and estimates about future events.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, differ from the actual results.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves matters that are highly uncertain or where different estimation methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the estimate that would have a material impact on the Groups results are likely to occur from period to period.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Pensions The Groups UK defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new members and future accrual.
Year end recognition of the liabilities under this scheme and the return on assets held to fund these liabilities require a number of significant actuarial assumptions to be made including inflation, discount rate and mortality rates.
Small changes in assumptions can have a significant impact on the expense recorded in the Income Statement and on the pension liability asset in the Balance Sheet.
See Note 24 for details of key estimates and assumptions applied in valuing the pension schemes.
Accounting for intangible assets and goodwill The Group records all intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination at fair value.
Intangible assets are deemed to have indefinite lives and as such are not amortised but are subject, as a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
Determining whether intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount through value-in-use of the cashgenerating units to which the intangible asset has been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The key estimates made by the Group include the discount rate, growth rates in revenue and gross margin and terminal growth rates, details of which are discussed in Note 10.
Currently, the most sensitive estimates relate to the Nutricima and five:am CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis in respect of the recoverable amount of those CGUs is also presented in Note 10.
64 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Current tax The current tax liability asset directly relates to the actual tax payable receivable on the Groups profits and is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Assumptions and judgements are made in applying these laws to the taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or credited to the Income Statement in the period in which it is determined.
Included within the current tax liability of the Group are two material current tax estimates with carrying values as at 31 May 2018 of 13.5m 2017: 10.9m and 6.2m 2017: nil.
The tax estimate of 13.5m has arisen due to a difference in technical standpoint between PZ Cussons and a tax authority on a subjective and complex piece of legislation.
This difference of opinion has led to an audit of the associated tax returns.
This potential tax liability has been provided for in full due to the subjectivity of the legislation.
It is expected that the range of possible outcomes could be a liability between nil and 13.5m.
A material movement to this current tax estimate is not expected within the next 12 months.
The tax estimate of 6.2m has arisen due to the risk of non-tax deductibility of a specific category of expense where it has come to light that formal government approval in the relevant jurisdiction may be required.
It is expected that the range of possible outcomes could be a liability between nil and 6.2m.
A material movement may occur within the next twelve months if formal government approval is granted.
Critical areas of judgement Foreign exchange rates in Nigeria The Nigerian foreign exchange regime is such that there are currently three official rates of exchange: the Central Bank of Nigeria spot rate CBN, NAFEX and NIFEX.
An unofficial parallel market rate is also legally available, although not consistently publicly quoted.
Judgement is required in selecting the rate at which to translate US Dollar denominated balances held in the Groups Nigerian entities into Naira, and the results of the Nigerian businesses into Sterling for consolidation purposes.
At 31 May 2017, the rate used by management was the CBN rate.
After closely monitoring the profile of exchange rates accessed by the Group for settlement of transactions throughout the year, and observing a trend towards the majority of the Groups transactions being settled at NIFEX rates, which is anticipated to continue, the Group has concluded that NIFEX is the most appropriate rate to translate US Dollar denominated balances in Nigeria and the results of Nigerian operations as at 31 May 2018.
An exceptional charge of 6.3m has been recognised in the Income Statement in relation to the impact of this change in accounting estimate, as documented in Note 3.
Notwithstanding the judgement highlighted above, there are certain US Dollar denominated creditor balances included in the Balance Sheet of the Groups Nigerian operating units at 31 May 2018 that will not be settled at NIFEX rates.
This is due to both legal and liquidity restrictions on these particular transactions and as such the Group will be required to access US Dollars at alternative exchange rates e. g. NAFEX or parallel.
These losses will crystallise as these transactions are settled in the early part of FY19, with the loss resulting from the difference between the NIFEX rate used for accounting purposes and the forecast settlement rate being anticipated to be in the region of 2 m. Basis of recognition of pension scheme surplus Judgement is applied in the consideration of trustees' rights in relation to pension scheme surpluses.
The trust deeds for the Directors and Main staff plan provides the Group with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of the scheme.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in these two UK schemes are recognised in full.
Where it is deemed that there is no such unconditional right torefund, such as in the case of the Expatriate plan, where the trustees have unilateral rights to wind up the scheme and distribute the surplus to members, no surplus is recognised.
During the year, the Group made a change in accounting policy under IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors in relation to the recognition of a pension surplus see page 54 for details.
