Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Significant accounting policies QinetiQ Group plc is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
In the income statement, the Group presents specific adjusting items separately.
In the judgement of the Directors, for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of business performance, specific adjusting items need to be disclosed separately.
Underlying measures of performance exclude specific adjusting items.
Specific adjusting items include the following: Distorting due to Distorting due to Does not reflect in-year irregular nature fluctuating nature operational performance Item year on year size and sign of continuing business Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions P Pension net finance income expense P P Gains losses on business divestments and disposal of property, P P P investments and intellectual property Transaction costs in respect of business acquisitions P P Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets P The tax impact of the above P P P Other significant non-recurring deferred tax movements P P P The financial impact of each item is reported in note 4 to these financial statements.
With effect for 2019 and the transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments mark to market revaluations on certain financial assets shall be reclassified from being measured at fair value through other comprehensive income to fair value through profit and loss.
These gains or losses, should they occur for QinetiQ, will also be reported as significant adjusting items.
Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements, approved by the Directors, have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors report on page 78 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP FRS 101 : these are presented on page 131.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and other relevant financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups reporting currency is Sterling and unless otherwise stated the financial statements are rounded to the nearest 100,000.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to 31 March 2018.
The purchase method of accounting has been adopted.
Those subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date control is obtained to the date that control is lost usually on acquisition and disposal respectively.
An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
This is the IFRS 10 definition of control.
The Group comprises certain entities that are operated under the management of a Proxy Board.
Details of the Proxy Board arrangements and the powers of the Proxy holders and QinetiQ management are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
IFRS 10 is the accounting standard now applicable in respect of consolidation of entities.
This does not specifically deal with proxy situations.
However, having considered the terms of the Proxy agreement, the Directors consider that the Group meets the requirements of IFRS 10 in respect of control over such affected entities and, therefore, consolidates these entities in the consolidated accounts.
An associate is an undertaking over which the Group exercises significant influence, usually from 20%50% of the equity voting rights, in respect of financial and operating policy.
A joint venture is an undertaking over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are held at cost including goodwill on acquisition and any postacquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate less any impairment to the recoverable amount.
Where an associate or joint venture has net liabilities, full provision is made for the Groups share of liabilities where there is a constructive or legal obligation to provide additional funding to the associate or joint venture.
94 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are adjusted where necessary to ensure compliance with Group accounting policies.
On consolidation, all intra-group income, expenses and balances are eliminated.
Revenue Revenue represents the value of work performed for customers, and is measured net of value added taxes and other sales taxes on the following bases: Service contracts The Groups service contract arrangements are accounted for under IAS 18 Revenue taking into account each partys enforceable rights regarding the services provided and expected manner of settlement.
When the outcome of a contract involving the rendering of services can be reliably estimated, revenue associated with the transaction is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of the reporting period and reflecting the probable economic benefits that will flow to the entity.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared with the estimated total contract costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
The Group generally does not undertake construction contracts.
Goods sold Sales of goods are recognised in the income statement on delivery of the product or when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer and revenue and costs can be reliably measured.
Royalties and intellectual property Royalty revenue is recognised over the period to which the royalty relates.
Intellectual property revenue can be attributed either to perpetual licences or to limited licences.
Limited licences are granted for a specified period and revenue is recognised over the period of the licence.
Perpetual licences are granted for unlimited time frames and revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented according to the Groups internal management reporting structure and the markets in which it operates.
Segmental results represent the contribution of the different segments to the profit of the Group.
Corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Unallocated items mainly comprise specific adjusting items.
Specific adjusting items are referred to in note 4.
Segmental assets and liabilities information is not regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Research and development expenditure R&D costs incurred in respect of specific contracts placed by customers are recognised within operating costs and revenue is recognised in respect of the R&D services performed.
Internally funded development expenditure is capitalised in the balance sheet where there is a clearly defined project, the expenditures are separately identifiable, the project is technically and commercially feasible, all costs are recoverable by future revenue and the resources are committed to complete the project.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over the forecast period of sales resulting from the development.
All other R&D costs are expensed to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
If the research phase cannot be clearly distinguished from the development phase, the respective project-related costs are treated as if they were incurred in the research phase only and expensed.
Financing QinetiQ Group holds no external borrowings but does have access to a revolving credit facility undrawn during 2017 and 2018, fees for which are reported within finance costs.
Costs of letters of credit are also charged to finance expense.
Income earned on funds invested is reported within finance income.
Exchange differences on financial assets and liabilities and the income or expense from interest hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement are included within finance income and finance expense.
Financing also includes the net finance income or expense in respect of defined benefit pension schemes.
Taxation The taxation charge is based on the taxable profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the relevant tax is charged or credited to equity.
Deferred taxation is the tax attributable to the temporary differences that appear when taxation authorities recognise and measure assets and liabilities with rules that differ from those of the consolidated financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Any changes in the tax rates are recognised in the income statement unless related to items directly recognised in equity.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on all taxable temporary differences excluding non-deductible goodwill.
Deferred tax assets are recognised on all deductible temporary differences provided that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered primarily through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date.
The assets should be available for immediate sale in their present condition and actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to their current fair value.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any write-down to fair value less costs to sell shall be recognised directly through profit and loss as an impairment loss.
No further depreciation is charged in respect of assets classified as held for sale.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in non-current assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying value of equity accounted investments.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill related to the entity sold.
Intangible assets Intangible assets arising from business combinations are recognised at fair value and are amortised over their expected useful lives, typically between one and 16 years.
Internally generated intangible assets are recorded at cost, including labour, directly attributable costs and any third-party expenses.
The multi-period excess earnings method and the relief-from-royalty method are both used for fair valuing intangible assets arising from acquisitions.
The multi-period excess earnings method considers the present value of net cash flows expected to be generated by customer relationships, by excluding any cash flows related to contributory assets.
The relief-from-royalty method considers the discounted estimated royalty payments that are expected to be avoided as a result of the patents or trademarks being owned.
Purchased intangible assets are recognised at cost less amortisation.
Intangible assets are amortised over their respective useful lives on a straight-line basis as follows: Intellectual property rights 210 years Customer relationships 116 years Development costs 14 years Other 110 years Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible non-current assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives to their estimated residual value as follows: Freehold buildings 2025 years Leasehold land and buildings Shorter of useful economic life and the period of the lease Plant and machinery 310 years Fixtures and fittings office equipment 510 years Computers 35 years Motor vehicles 35 years Assets under construction are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
In the case of assets constructed by the Group, the value includes the cost of own work completed, including directly attributable costs and interest.
The useful lives, depreciation methods and residual values applied to property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and, if appropriate, adjusted accordingly.
Impairment of goodwill and tangible, intangible and held for sale assets At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If the carrying amount of any asset exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
In addition, goodwill is tested for impairment annually irrespective of any indication of impairment.
If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the respective asset or the assets in the cash-generating unit CGU are written down to their recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or CGU calculated using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
Impairment losses are expensed to the income statement.
96 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Investments in debt and equity securities Investments held by the Group are classified as either a current asset or as a non-current asset and those classified as available for sale are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss, other than impairment losses, being recognised directly in equity.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of quoted financial instruments is their bid price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of unquoted equity investments is based on the price of the most recent investment by the Group or a third party, if available, or derived from the present value of forecast future cash flows.
Inventories Inventory and work-in-progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Work-in-progress and manufactured finished goods are valued at production cost.
Production cost includes direct production costs and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
A provision is established when the net realisable value of any inventory item is lower than its cost.
A market comparison technique is used to fair value inventories acquired through a business combination.
The fair value is determined based on the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and sale, and a reasonable profit margin based on the effort required to complete and sell the inventories.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts.
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other receivables and represent revenue recognised in excess of amounts invoiced.
Other receivables will also include insurance recoveries where we are virtually certain of recovery.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and short-term deposits that are readily convertible into cash.
In the cash flow statement overdraft balances are included in cash and equivalents.
Current and non-current liabilities Current liabilities include amounts due within the normal operating cycle of the Group.
Deferred income is included in trade and other payables and represents amounts invoiced in excess of revenue recognised.
Interest-bearing current and non-current liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and then stated at amortised cost with any difference between the cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Costs associated with the arrangement of bank facilities or the issue of loans are held net of the associated liability presented in the balance sheet.
Capitalised issue costs are released over the estimated life of the facility or instrument to which they relate using the effective interest rate method.
If it becomes clear that the facility or instrument will be redeemed early, the amortisation of the issue costs will be accelerated.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event which can be reliably estimated, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Where appropriate, provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at an appropriate discount rate reflecting the level of risk and the time value of money.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The fide-recognition of a financial instrument takes place when the Group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, when the instrument expires, or when the instrument is sold, terminated or exercised.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and thereafter held at fair value, being the market value for quoted instruments or valuation based on models and discounted cash flow calculations for unlisted instruments.
Fair value hedging Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges of currency risk or interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement.
The hedged item is held at fair value with respect to the hedged risk with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedging Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where a hedged item results in an asset or a liability, gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in the cost of the asset or liability.
Gains and losses previously recognised in equity are removed and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at period-end rates.
Any resulting exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Gains and losses on designated forward foreign exchange hedging contracts are matched against the foreign exchange movements on the underlying transaction.
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in its functional currency.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures, including any related goodwill, are translated to Sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated to Sterling using the average rates of exchange during the period.
Exchange adjustments arising from the re-translation of the opening net investment and the results for the period to the period-end rate are taken directly to equity and reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Post-retirement benefits The Group provides both defined contribution and defined benefit pension arrangements.
The liabilities of the Group arising from defined benefit obligations are determined using the projected unit credit method.
Valuations for accounting purposes are carried out bi-annually.
Actuarial advice is provided by external consultants.
For the funded defined benefit plans, the excess or deficit of the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation are recognised as an asset or a liability respectively.
Per the Scheme rules, the Company has an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus that may arise on cessation of the Scheme in the context of IFRIC 14 paragraphs 11 b and 12 and therefore the full net pension asset can be recognised on the Groups balance sheet and the Groups minimum funding commitments to the Scheme do not give rise to an additional balance sheet liability.
For defined benefit plans, the cost charged to the income statement consists of administrative expenses and the net interest income or expense.
There is no service cost due to the fact the plans are closed to future accrual.
The finance element of the pension charge is shown in finance income or expense and the administration cost element is charged as a component of operating costs in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and re-measurement gains and losses are recognised immediately in full through the statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Share-based payments The Group operates share-based payment arrangements with employees.
The fair value of equity-settled awards for share-based payments is determined on grant and expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The fair value of cash-settled awards for share-based payments is determined each period end until they are exercised or lapse.
The value is expensed straight line over the period from grant to the date of earliest unconditional exercise.
The charges for both equity and cash-settled share-based payments are updated annually for non-market-based vesting conditions.
Share capital Ordinary share capital of the Company is recorded as the proceeds received, less issue costs.
Company shares held by the employee benefit trusts are held at the consideration paid.
They are classified as own shares within equity.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale or issue of Company shares is recorded in equity.
Recent accounting developments Developments adopted by the Group in 2018 with no material impact on the financial statements The following IFRS and EU-endorsed standards and amendments, improvements and interpretations of published standards are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and have been adopted with no material impact on the Groups financial statements: IAS 7 statement of cash flows amendments to the Disclosure initiatives require disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
The Group does not currently have liabilities arising from financing activities to disclose in the cash flow statement.
The adoption of the amendment has no impact on the Group IAS 12 income taxes amendments to the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses clarify how an entity should evaluate whether there will be sufficient taxable profits against which it can utilise a deductible temporary difference.
The Group already assesses the sufficiency of future taxable profits in a manner consistent with these amendments.
The adoption of the amendment has no impact on the Group Annual improvement 2014-2016 cycle have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2017.
No changes to the previously published accounting policies or other adjustments were required on the adoption of these amendments.
98 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Developments expected in future periods for which the impact has been assessed IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 was published in May 2014 amended in April 2016 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The model includes identifying the contract with the customer, identifying the performance obligations in the contract, determining the transaction price, allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract and recognising the revenue when the entity satisfies a performance obligation.
The new standard shall supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full retrospective application or a cumulative effect method is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 i. e. FY19 for QinetiQ.
Early adoption is permitted but QinetiQ plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
During FY18 QinetiQ performed a detailed assessment of IFRS 15 see below and concluded that the impact of transitioning to IFRS 15 would not be material.
We have not identified any contracts in total, or part contracts in the form of performance obligations, where we would need to move from recognising revenue over time to recognising revenue at a point in time.
The majority of QinetiQs contracts are largely either long-term service contracts where the customer benefits from QinetiQs performance throughout the contract, or they are long-term design, build and delivery contracts which are highly bespoke and have no alternative use to QinetiQ and QinetiQ have a right to payment for work performed to date.
Therefore, it remains appropriate to recognise revenue over time using an inputbased methodology cost-to-cost.
From the reviews carried out to date, the disaggregation of the contract into distinct performance obligations does not materially alter the long-term percentage completion methodology currently applied.
Revenue on product delivery contracts is currently recognised by QinetiQ at a point in time: despite the changes in IFRS 15 this methodology is expected to be unchanged for QinetiQ.
There are certain instances, though, where if the customer controls the production run and the units produced cant be diverted to another customer that may require revenue to be recognised over the time-frame of the production run.
Due to the short time frame of the production runs the period of time will largely be within the same accounting period and the impact is usually expected to be immaterial.
From a review of the contracts in progress at year end, and an assessment of how much of the closing inventory was controlled by the customer, this has been determined to be immaterial.
Detailed IFRS 15 assessment The following process was followed: 1.
All major long-term service contracts FAST, LTPA, CATS, NCSISS and MSCA, which accounts for approximately 39% of FY18 revenue, were assessed and concluded on individually.
Management within each business unit assessed all other contracts greater than 1m and which extended beyond FY18.
These were concluded on individually within each business by considering performance obligations, transaction prices and satisfaction of performance obligations.
Generally these contracts consisted of one performance obligation which is to deliver advice-based services to customers over multiple periods.
Conclusions drawn were similar to long-term service contracts assessed above with current treatment already being aligned with IFRS 15.
The impact of adopting IFRS 15 across the business units was considered to be immaterial.
Contracts which started and ended in FY18 were not assessed as these would have no impact on revenue recognition.
Licensing revenue earned at Boldon James was assessed separately using new guidance provided under IFRS 15.
Management assessed if licences provide a right to use or right to access licences.
An assessment was also made on whether the granting of licences and support service contracts are two distinct performance obligations.
Granting of licences was assessed to provide right to use with revenue recognised at a point in time.
Support service contracts were assessed to be a separate performance obligation and recognised over the duration of the contract term.
Boldon James current revenue recognition policy is already in compliance with IFRS 15 and no changes are required.
Product shipment contracts with control clauses were assessed to determine the point in time when revenue shall be recognised by considering the additional indicators highlighted in the new standard.
It was determined that there was no material impact on QinetiQ point in time revenue recognition.
Internal revenue recognition accounting policies have been updated which shall be adopted consistently throughout FY19.
Training and guidance has also been provided across the Group to ensure IFRS 15 compliance on all QinetiQ contracts during FY19.
QinetiQ plans to adopt the new standard using the cumulative effect transitional method without using the practical expedients for modified contracts in IFRS 15.
C5 c. This method would require an adjustment to the opening balance of equity in the period of adoption without having to restate comparative amounts.
However, following the conclusion that the impact is not material, no adjustment will be required for the Group on implementation of IFRS 15.
Apart from providing more extensive disclosures on QinetiQs revenue transactions, the application of IFRS 15 shall not have a significant impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
QinetiQ does not expect to adjust opening balances of equity in FY19 once the standard is adopted.
IFRS 9 financial instruments IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, and introduces a new impairment model for financial assets, as well as new rules for hedge accounting.
The new standard shall replace IAS 39 in its entirety and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 i. e. FY19 for the Group.
The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date, FY19, and shall only restate comparatives if possible without the benefit of hindsight.
Hedge accounting shall be applied prospectively.
The Group assessed the impact of adopting the new standard and determined that certain financial assets shall be reclassified from being measured at fair value through other comprehensive income to fair value through profit and loss.
This change will impact overall profit in FY19 as all financial asset gains or losses shall be recognised directly through profit and loss.
The changes to impairment and hedge accounting will not have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 16 leases The final standard, IFRS 16 leases, was published in January 2016.
Under the new standard, companies will recognise new assets and liabilities, bringing added transparency to the balance sheet.
IFRS 16 eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases.
Instead, there is a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar to current finance lease accounting.
Lessor accounting remains similar to current practice i. e. lessors continue to classify leases as finance and operating leases.
The standard will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 subject to EU endorsement.
Management have started to assess the impact of IFRS 16 but cannot yet qualify any impact as at year-end.
Details of the Groups operating leases can be found in note 25.
Developments expected in future periods with no material impact on the Groups financial statements The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the following new, revised, amended and improved published standards and interpretations, which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group when they become applicable in future periods: Amendments to IFRS 2, 4, 9 and 15.
IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The following commentary is intended to highlight those policies that are critical to the business based on the level of management judgement required in their application, their complexity and their potential impact on the results and financial position reported for the Group.
The level of management judgement required includes assumptions and estimates about future events that are uncertain and the actual outcome of which may result in a materially different outcome from that anticipated.
Revenue and profit recognition The estimation process required to evaluate the potential outcome of contracts and projects requires skill, knowledge and experience from a variety of sources within the business to assess the status of the contract, costs to complete, internal and external labour resources required and other factors.
This process is carried out continuously throughout the business to ensure that project and contract assessments reflect the latest status of such work.
Judgement is required when considering the likelihood of meeting the contractual requirements, particularly around technologically challenging contracts, and the resulting costs.
Estimated contract losses are recognised as soon as anticipated and no profit is recognised on a contract until the outcome can be reliably estimated.
Business combinations and related goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
This process relies on the use of estimates of the future profitability and cash flows of its CGUs which may differ from the actual results delivered.
In addition, the Group reviews whether identified intangible assets have suffered any impairment.
Further details on the sensitivity of the carrying value of goodwill to changes in the key assumptions are set out in note 13.
Tax The Group has significant levels of unused tax losses, as set out in note 8.
Judgement is applied when assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets impacting on the value of losses recognised on the balance sheet as a deferred tax asset.
Judgement is also required when assessing technical uncertainties associated with tax positions.
To the extent that the outcome of a tax audit differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to current tax and deferred tax provisions held in the period the determination is made.
Other payables, provisions and contingent liabilities The Group holds liabilities in respect of environmental and regulatory issues see note 23.
The Group operates in regulated environments and a failure to comply with particular regulations could result in fines and or penalties.
There is judgement required in determining the significance of any instances of potential non-compliance and potential liability based on managements assessment of the most likely outcome.
The financial statements also disclose contingent liabilities in respect of legal claims and regulatory issues which have not been provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify for recognition as provisions.
Judgement is required in these assessments.
Post-retirement benefits The Groups defined benefit pension obligations and net income statement costs are based on key assumptions, including discount rates, mortality and inflation.
Management exercises its best judgement, in consultation with actuarial advisors, in selecting the values for these assumptions that are the most appropriate to the Group.
Small changes in these assumptions at the balance sheet date, individually or collectively, may result in significant changes in the size of the net surplus deficit.
Further details of these assumptions are set out in note 30.
100 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2.
Revenue and other income Revenue and other income is analysed as follows: Revenue by category For the year ended 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Sales of goods 85.8 90.6 Services 733.4 682.4 Royalties and licences 13.8 10.1 Revenue 833.0 783.1 Share of associates and joint ventures profit after tax 0.3 0.5 Other income 9.4 8.7 Other income underlying 9.7 9.2 Gain on sale of assets note 4 21.1 18.4 Total other income 30.8 27.6 Revenue and profit after tax of associates and joint ventures was 13.6m and 0.6m respectively 2017: revenue of 8.2m and profit after tax of 1.0m.
The figures in the table above represent the Group share of this profit after tax.
Other income is in respect of property rentals and the recovery of other related property costs.
The prior year gain of 18.4m has been reclassified from operating costs.
Revenue by customer geographic location For the year ended 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 United Kingdom 607.0 607.4 US 81.6 72.4 Other 144.4 103.3 Total 833.0 783.1 Total international revenue US Other was 226.0m 2017: 175.7m.
International revenue is one of the Groups KPIs.
Revenue by major customer type For the year ended 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 UK Government 544.2 538.4 US Government 65.5 61.8 Other 223.3 182.9 Total 833.0 783.1 Other does not contain any customers with revenue in excess of 10% of total Group revenue.
Segmental analysis The analysis by business segment is presented in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, on the basis of those reportable segments whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8 and are aligned with the Groups strategic direction, determined with reference to the products and services they provide, as follows: EMEA Services provides technical assurance, test and evaluation and training services, underpinned by long-term contracts.
EMEA Services comprises the following business units which are not considered reportable segments as defined by IFRS 8: Maritime, Land & Weapons: Air & Space, Cyber, Information & Training, and International business.
These are aggregated into the single EMEA Services segment due to their similar characteristics including the nature of the services provided and customers.
Global Products combines all other business units not aggregated within EMEA Services.
Generally these business units deliver innovative solutions and products which includes contract-funded research and development and developing intellectual property in partnership with key customers and through internal funding with potential for new revenue streams.
Global Products comprises the following business units which are not considered reportable segments as defined by IFRS 8: QinetiQ North America, Space Products, OptaSense and EMEA Products.
No single component represents 10% or more of the Group's revenue.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Segmental analysis continued Operating segments 2018 2017 Revenue Revenue from Underlying from Underlying external operating external operating 1 1 all figures in million customers profit customers profit EMEA Services 651.4 94.3 613.5 92.7 Global Products 181.6 28.2 169.6 23.6 Total operating segments 833.0 122.5 783.1 116.3 Underlying operating margin 14.7% 14.9% 1 The measure of profit presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker is operating profit stated before specific adjusting items underlying operating profit.
The specific adjusting items are detailed in note 4.
Definitions of the Groups Alternative performance measures can be found in the glossary on page 139.
No measure of segmental assets and liabilities is reported as this information is not regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Reconciliation of total operating segments to total on an organic, constant currency basis 2018 2017 Revenue Revenue from Underlying from Underlying external operating external operating all figures in million customers profit customers profit Total operating segments 833.0 122.5 783.1 116.3 Less: contribution from acquired businesses 30.7 6.6 Total operating segments on an organic basis 802.3 115.9 783.1 116.3 Adjust to constant prior year exchange rates 1.1 1.0 Total operating segments on an organic, constant currency basis 803.4 116.9 783.1 116.3 Organic revenue growth at constant currency 3% 1% For the period in which there was no contribution in the equivalent period in the prior year which was pre-ownership by the Group.
Reconciliation of segmental results to total profit all figures in million Note 2018 2017 Underlying operating profit 122.5 116.3 Specific adjusting items operating profit 4 18.5 16.4 Operating profit 141.0 132.7 Net finance income expense 6 3.8 1.2 Profit before tax 144.8 131.5 Taxation expense 8 6.7 8.2 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 138.1 123.3 Non-current assets by geographic location Rest of All figures in million UK World Total Year ended 31 March 2018 340.5 71.1 411.6 Year ended 31 March 2017 303.0 78.3 381.3 excluding deferred tax, financial instruments and retirement benefit surplus.
102 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Depreciation and amortisation by business segment excluding specific adjusting items For the year ended 31 March 2018 EMEA Global All figures in million Services Products Total Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23.6 2.0 25.6 Amortisation of purchased or internally developed intangible assets 2.3 1.4 3.7 25.9 3.4 29.3 For the year ended 31 March 2017 EMEA Global All figures in million Services Products Total Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.8 1.6 26.4 Amortisation of purchased or internally developed intangible assets 1.4 1.2 2.6 26.2 2.8 29.0 4.
Specific adjusting items In the income statement, the Group presents specific adjusting items separately.
In the judgement of the Directors, for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information, specific adjusting items need to be disclosed separately because of their size and nature.
Further explanation of this rationale is provided in note 1 Accounting Policies.
The following specific adjusting items have been charged credited in the consolidated income statement: all figures in million Note 2018 2017 Gain on sale of property 14.6 18.4 Gain on sale of investment 0.6 Gain on sale of intellectual property 5.9 Acquisition costs 1.0 Specific adjusting items before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 21.1 17.4 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 2.6 1.0 Specific adjusting items operating profit 18.5 16.4 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income expense 4.2 1.0 Specific adjusting items profit before tax 22.7 15.4 Specific adjusting items tax 8 6.4 4.1 Total specific adjusting items profit after tax 29.1 19.5 Reconciliation of underlying profit for the year to total profit for the year Underlying profit after tax total Group 109.0 103.8 Total specific adjusting items profit after tax 29.1 19.5 Total profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 138.1 123.3 5.
Profit before tax The following auditors remuneration has been charged in arriving at profit before tax: all figures in million 2018 2017 Fees payable to the auditor and its associates: Audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.4 0.4 Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries of the Company and its associated pension scheme 0.2 0.1 Total audit fees 0.6 0.5 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 0.7 0.6 The following items have also been charged in arriving at profit before tax: all figures in million 2018 2017 Cost of inventories expensed 25.4 23.2 Owned assets: depreciation 25.6 26.4 Foreign exchange loss 0.2 Research and development expenditure customer funded contracts 284.3 272.8 Research and development expenditure Group funded 25.8 33.6 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Finance income and expense For the year ended 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Receivable on bank deposits 0.7 1.0 Finance income before specific adjusting items 0.7 1.0 Amortisation of deferred financing costs 0.3 0.3 Payable on bank loans and overdrafts 0.7 0.6 Unwinding of discount on financial liabilities 0.1 0.3 Finance expense before specific adjusting items 1.1 1.2 Specific adjusting items: Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income expense 4.2 1.0 Net finance income expense 3.8 1.2 7. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2018 There were no acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2018.
However, payment of 1.0m consideration was made in respect of the prior year acquisition of RubiKon Group Pty Limited and 0.6m was invested in joint ventures.
The remaining 0.3m deferred consideration had not been paid as at year end.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2017 Contribution post-acquisition Fair value Date Cash of assets Operating 1 all figures in million acquired consideration Goodwill acquired Revenue profit Company acquired QinetiQ Target Systems 21 December 2016 60.3 24.5 35.8 6.6 1.0 RubiKon Group Pty Limited 31 January 2017 7.4 3.9 3.5 2.6 0.2 Total current year acquisitions 67.7 28.4 39.3 9.2 1.2 Less: deferred consideration 1.3 Less: cash acquired 1.7 2 Plus: transaction costs 1.0 Net cash outflow in the year 65.7 1 Initial cash consideration includes price adjustments for working capital and net cash.
2 Transaction costs have been included in Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation as a specific adjusting item.
QinetiQ Target Systems formerly Meggitt Target Systems On 21 December 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Meggitt Target Systems for 60.3m.
The company is a provider of unmanned aerial, naval and land-based target systems and services for test and evaluation T&E and operational training and rehearsal.
On the date of acquisition, the company changed its name to QinetiQ Target Systems and integrated into QinetiQs international business.
QinetiQ Target Systems provides target systems to approximately 40 countries with operations in Alberta, Canada and Kent, UK.
The acquisition of Target Systems enhances QinetiQs product portfolio, market position and ability to deliver global test and evaluation services.
RubiKon Group Pty Limited On 31 January 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of RubiKon Group Pty Limited from its founder management team for 7.4m A$12.6m.
The company provides solutions to complex logistics, supply chain management and procurement projects in defence, aerospace, mining and government markets.
RubiKon is now subsumed into the Australia business.
RubiKons integrated logistics support services are complementary to the technical engineering advice and services that the Group provides.
The acquisition is also expected to provide the Group with an increased share of strategic partner style contracts in the growing Australian markets through access to RubiKons customer base.
104 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 8.
Taxation 2018 2017 Underlying Specific Total Underlying Specific Total adjusting adjusting all figures in million items items Analysis of charge Current UK tax income expense 0.2 0.6 0.4 7.0 7.0 Current UK tax in respect of prior years 1.0 1.0 Overseas corporation tax Current year 4.7 4.7 2.0 2.0 Current tax expense 3.5 0.6 4.1 9.0 9.0 Deferred tax expense income 7.9 7.2 0.7 3.6 4.1 0.5 Deferred tax impact of change in rates 2.4 1.2 1.2 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax in respect of prior years 0.7 1.4 0.7 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax expense income 9.6 7.0 2.6 3.3 4.1 0.8 Taxation expense income 13.1 6.4 6.7 12.3 4.1 8.2 Factors affecting tax charge credit in year Principal factors reducing the Groups current year tax charge below the UK statutory rate are explained below: Profit before tax 122.1 22.7 144.8 116.1 15.4 131.5 Tax on profit before tax at 19% 2017: 20% 23.2 4.3 27.5 23.2 3.1 26.3 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and non-taxable items 0.2 3.3 3.5 0.2 3.3 3.5 Current UK tax in respect of prior years 1.0 1.0 Research and development expenditure credits 12.0 12.0 9.1 9.1 Tax in respect of an FY09 US acquisition payable to the tax authorities 1.0 1.0 1.5 1.5 Tax in respect of an FY09 US acquisition recoverable from insurers 1.5 1.5 Recognition of deferred tax asset 7.6 7.6 3.7 3.7 Deferred tax impact of change in rates 1.5 1.2 0.3 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax in respect of prior years 0.7 1.4 0.7 0.1 0.1 Other deferred tax movements 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.5 Effect of different rates in overseas jurisdictions 1.4 0.2 1.2 0.7 0.7 Taxation expense income 13.1 6.4 6.7 12.3 4.1 8.2 Effective tax rate 10.7% 4.6% 10.6% 6.2% The total tax charge was 6.7m 2017: 8.2m.
The underlying tax charge was 13.1m 2017: 12.3m with an underlying effective tax rate of 10.7% 2017: 10.6%.
The effective tax rate continues to be below the UK statutory rate, primarily as a result of the benefit of research and development expenditure credits RDEC in the UK.
Deferred tax assets of 7.6m have been recognised in the year 2017: 3.7m, with the income statement credit classified as a specific adjusting item.
These assets are in respect of US net operating losses and the recognition of tax deductible intellectual property assets in the UK, whereas the prior year related to an element of the Groups UK non-trade loan relationship deficits.
Together with a 1.2m tax effect of the pre-tax specific adjusting items note 4, the total specific adjusting items tax credit was 6.4m 2017: 4.1m.
At 31 March 2018 the Group had unused tax losses and surplus interest costs of 118.0m 2017: 141.7m which are available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of 17.0m of US net operating losses 2017: nil and 7.7m 2017: 20.2m of UK losses.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of the remaining 93.3m of losses interest costs due to uncertainty over the timing of their utilisation.
The Group has 60.2m of time limited losses of which US capital losses of 26.2m will expire in 2020, 5.5m will expire in 2034, 20.3m in 2035 and 8.2m in 2036.
A reduction in the US Federal rate of tax to 21% from 35% has been substantively enacted during the period.
The deferred tax assets in the US have been calculated using this rate.
Deferred tax in other jurisdictions has been calculated using the enacted future statutory tax rates.
Factors affecting future tax charges The effective tax rate is expected to remain below the UK statutory rate in the medium term, subject to the impact of any tax legislation changes, the geographic mix of profits and the assumption that the benefits of net R&D expenditure credits retained by the Group remain in the tax line.
Future recognition of unrecognised tax losses will also affect future tax charges.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Dividends An analysis of the dividends paid and proposed in respect of the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 is provided below: Pence Date paid per share m payable Interim 2018 2.1 11.9 Feb 2018 Final 2018 proposed 4.2 23.7 Aug 2018 Total for the year ended 31 March 2018 6.3 35.6 Interim 2017 2.0 11.5 Feb 2017 Final 2017 4.0 22.6 Sep 2017 Total for the year ended 31 March 2017 6.0 34.1 The Directors propose a final dividend of 4.2p 2017: 4.0p per share.
The dividend, which is subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 31 August 2018.
The ex-dividend date is 2 August 2018 and the record date is 3 August 2018.
Analysis of employee costs and numbers The largest component of operating expenses is employee costs.
The year-end and average monthly number of persons employed by the Group, including Executive Directors, analysed by business segment, were: As at 31 March Monthly average 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Number Number Number EMEA Services 5,239 5,301 5,340 5,375 Global Products 826 853 803 739 Total 6,065 6,154 6,143 6,114 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: all figures in million Note 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 292.3 272.9 Social security costs 28.1 27.1 Pension costs 39.6 37.8 Share-based payments costs 29 2.7 3.3 Total employee costs 362.7 341.1 11.
Directors and other senior management personnel The Directors and other senior management personnel of the Group during the year to 31 March 2018 comprise the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee.
The remuneration and benefits provided to Directors and the Executive Committee are summarised below: all figures in million 2018 2017 Short-term employee remuneration including benefits 8.1 7.4 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments costs 0.7 0.8 Total 8.9 8.3 Short-term employee remuneration and benefits include salary, bonus and benefits.
Post-employment benefits relate to pension amounts.
106 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares used excludes those shares bought by the Group and held as own shares see note 28.
For diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares arising from unvested share-based awards including share options.
For the year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares Million 565.2 573.9 Effect of dilutive securities Million 2.0 4.8 Diluted number of shares Million 567.2 578.7 Underlying basic earnings per share figures are presented below, in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per share, because the Directors consider this gives a more relevant indication of underlying business performance and reflects the adjustments to basic earnings per share for the impact of specific adjusting items see note 4 and tax thereon.
Underlying EPS For the year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity shareholders million 138.1 123.3 Remove profit after tax in respect of specific adjusting items million 29.1 19.5 Underlying profit after taxation million 109.0 103.8 Weighted average number of shares Million 565.2 573.9 Underlying basic EPS Pence 19.3 18.1 Diluted number of shares Million 567.2 578.7 Underlying diluted EPS Pence 19.2 17.9 Basic and diluted EPS For the year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity shareholders million 138.1 123.3 Weighted average number of shares Million 565.2 573.9 Basic EPS total Group Pence 24.4 21.5 Diluted number of shares Million 567.2 578.7 Diluted EPS total Group Pence 24.3 21.3 13.
Goodwill all figures in million 2018 2017 Cost At 1 April 220.4 171.5 Acquisitions 28.4 Foreign exchange 17.4 20.5 At 31 March 203.0 220.4 Impairment At 1 April 112.6 98.4 Foreign exchange 11.1 14.2 At 31 March 101.5 112.6 Net book value at 31 March 101.5 107.8 Goodwill analysed by cash-generating unit CGU Goodwill is allocated across two cash-generating units CGUs within the EMEA Services segment and five CGUs within the Global Products segment.
The Group previously disclosed four separate CGUs and one of those CGUs, EMEA Services, was an aggregation of several other CGUs that could be considered as CGUs in their own right.
The Group has now disaggregated that CGU into three separate CGUs, being Boldon James, Commerce Decisions and Advisory Services.
In Global Products, the Group has also disaggregated one CGU into the two components of Target Systems and Space Products.
The full list of CGUs that have goodwill allocated to them is as follows: all figures in million Primary reporting segments 2018 QinetiQ North America Global Products 38.8 Target Systems Global Products 24.1 Space Products Global Products 5.8 Boldon James Global Products 10.7 Commerce Decisions Global Products 6.4 Australia EMEA Services 5.9 Advisory Services EMEA Services 9.8 Net book value at 31 March 101.5 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Goodwill continued Goodwill is attributable to the excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired and includes expected synergies, future growth prospects and employee knowledge, expertise and security clearances.
The Group tests each CGU for impairment annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Impairment testing is dependent on managements estimates and judgements, particularly as they relate to the forecasting of future cash flows, the discount rates selected and expected long-term growth rates.
Significant headroom exists in all CGUs and management considers that there are no likely variations in the key assumptions which would lead to an impairment being recognised.
Key assumptions Cash flows The value-in-use calculations generally use discounted future cash flows based on financial plans approved by the Board covering a three-year period.
Cash flows for periods beyond these periods are extrapolated based on the last year of the plans, with a terminal growth-rate assumption applied.
Terminal growth rates The specific plans for each of the CGUs have been extrapolated using a terminal growth rate of 1.0% 2.5% 2017: 2.0% 2.4%.
The US terminal growth rate was 1.7% 2017: 2.0%.
Growth rates are based on managements estimates which take into consideration the long-term nature of the industry in which the CGUs operate and external forecasts as to the likely growth of the industry in the longer term.
Discount rates The Groups weighted average cost of capital was used as a basis in determining the discount rate to be applied, adjusted for risks specific to the market characteristics of CGUs, as appropriate on a pre-tax basis.
This is considered an appropriate estimate of a market participant discount rate.
The pre-tax discount rates applied to the cash flows of the QNA CGU and to the Target Systems CGU were 13.1% and 11.8% respectively.
Discount rates ranging from 10.1% to 12.4% were applied to the cash flows of the other, less significant, CGUs.
Sensitivity analysis shows that the value of the terminal year cash flow, the discount rate and the terminal growth rates have a significant impact on the value of the discounted cash flow.
Significant CGUs QinetiQ North America QNA The carrying value of the goodwill for QNA CGU was 38.8m as at 31 March 2018 2017: 43.4m.
The recoverable amount of this CGU as at 31 March 2018, based on value in use and calculated using the assumptions noted above, is higher than the carrying value of net operating assets of 47.3m.
The key sensitivity impacting on the value in use calculations is the terminal year cash flows.
These cash flows include certain assumptions about revenue and profit in respect of new product lines still to be launched and the success of winning certain government contracts.
An increase in the discount rate by 1%, a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% or a decrease in the terminal year cash flows of 2.0m would not cause the net operating assets to exceed their recoverable amount.
Target Systems The recoverable amount of this CGU as at 31 March 2018, based on value in use and calculated using the assumptions noted above, is higher than the carrying value of net operating assets of 27.8m.
108 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14.
Intangible assets Year ended 31 March 2018 Acquired intangible assets AICC and other Customer Development intangible all figures in million relationships Other costs assets Total Cost At 1 April 2017 56.0 67.5 19.7 43.3 186.5 Additions internally developed 0.4 3.6 4.0 Additions purchased 1.4 7.9 9.3 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Disposals 7.1 7.1 Transfers 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange 3.3 4.9 0.1 0.4 8.5 At 31 March 2018 52.7 62.6 22.3 47.0 184.6 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2017 34.9 58.8 17.8 40.3 151.8 Amortisation charge for year 1.6 1.0 1.5 2.2 6.3 Disposals 7.1 7.1 Foreign exchange 2.7 4.4 0.4 7.5 At 31 March 2018 33.8 55.4 19.3 35.0 143.5 Net book value at 31 March 2018 18.9 7.2 3.0 12.0 41.1 AICC Assets In Course Of Construction At year-end 8.5m of additions were cash-settled and 4.8m were not cash-settled.
Other consists primarily of intellectual property arising on acquisition of businesses.
Year ended 31 March 2017 Acquired intangible assets AICC and other Customer Development intangible all figures in million relationships Other costs assets Total Cost At 1 April 2016 31.9 54.8 18.5 42.2 147.4 Additions internally developed 0.4 0.7 1.1 Additions purchased 1.1 1.1 Additions recognised on acquisitions 20.5 6.8 27.3 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfers 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange 3.6 5.9 0.4 9.9 At 31 March 2017 56.0 67.5 19.7 43.3 186.5 Amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 31.2 52.6 16.5 38.8 139.1 Amortisation charge for year 0.4 0.6 1.3 1.3 3.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange 3.3 5.6 0.4 9.3 At 31 March 2017 34.9 58.8 17.8 40.3 151.8 Net book value at 31 March 2017 21.1 8.7 1.9 3.0 34.7 AICC Assets In Course Of Construction At 31 March 2017, intangible assets of 24.2m and 3.1m were acquired as part of the QinetiQ Target Systems and RubiKon acquisitions respectively.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Property, plant and equipment Year ended 31 March 2018 Plant, Computers Assets Land and machinery and office under all figures in million buildings and vehicles equipment construction Total Cost At 1 April 2017 331.7 198.5 52.1 34.3 616.6 Additions purchased 1.0 13.4 3.5 49.2 67.1 Reclassification to intangibles 0.4 0.4 Land and buildings assets classified as held for sale 1.2 1.2 Disposals 29.2 32.6 16.6 2.4 80.8 Transfers 1.7 16.3 11.7 29.7 Foreign exchange 0.9 1.8 0.4 0.2 3.3 At 31 March 2018 303.1 193.8 50.3 50.8 598.0 Depreciation At 1 April 2017 174.9 163.5 39.4 377.8 Charge for year 9.7 10.5 5.4 25.6 Disposals 22.6 32.2 16.6 71.4 Foreign exchange 0.8 1.6 0.6 3.0 At 31 March 2018 161.2 140.2 27.6 329.0 Net book value at 31 March 2018 141.9 53.6 22.7 50.8 269.0 At year-end 46.0m of additions were cash-settled and 21.1m were not cash-settled.
Disposals of land and buildings related to surplus properties and yielded a profit of 14.6m, reported as a specific adjusting item note 4.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale In 2017 management made a decision to sell surplus land and buildings on the Malvern site.
A large part of the assets were sold on 29 March 2018 to a property developer for 11.4m which yielded a 7.7m profit.
At year-end, land with a carrying amount of 1.2m is still classified as held for sale on the balance sheet.
Management estimates that the land will be sold during the first quarter of FY19 for 2.0m which is the current fair value less costs to sell.
The land was valued by BNP Real Estate on 31 March 2018.
There were no non-current assets classified as held for sale at 31 March 2017.
Equity accounted investments As at 31 March 2018 2017 Group net Group net Joint share of Joint share of ventures and joint ventures and joint associates ventures associates ventures financial and financial and results associates results associates Non-current assets 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 Current assets 11.4 5.6 6.8 3.3 11.6 5.7 7.1 3.4 Current liabilities 7.1 3.5 4.2 2.0 Net assets of joint ventures and associates 4.5 2.2 2.9 1.4 Other non-current investments 0.1 Total 4.5 2.2 2.9 1.5 During the year ended 31 March 2018 there were sales to associates and joint ventures of 10.4m 2017: 3.4m.
At the year-end there were outstanding receivables from associates and joint ventures of 4.5m 2017: 0.4m.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only where there is a legally enforceable right to do so and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Movements in the deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown below: Year ended 31 March 2018 Deferred tax asset all figures in million Short-term Intellectual timing property differences Losses Total At 1 April 2017 9.9 3.7 13.6 Charged credited to income statement 3.2 1.2 1.9 3.9 Charged to other comprehensive income 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange 0.8 0.1 0.9 Gross deferred tax asset at 31 March 2018 3.2 7.3 5.5 16.0 Less: liability available for offset 9.6 Net deferred tax asset at 31 March 2018 6.4 Deferred tax liability Accelerated Pension capital Acquisition all figures in million surplus allowances intangibles Total At 1 April 2017 31.4 4.9 8.9 45.2 Charged credited to income statement 2.7 5.3 1.5 6.5 Charged to other comprehensive income 24.4 24.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 0.1 Gross deferred tax liability at 31 March 2018 58.5 10.3 7.2 76.0 Less: asset available for offset 9.6 Net deferred tax liability at 31 March 2018 66.4 Deferred tax has been calculated using the enacted future statutory tax rates.
No deferred tax asset is recognised in respect of the remaining 93.3m of losses interest due to uncertainty over the timing of their utilisation.
The Group has 60.2m of time limited losses of which US capital losses of 26.2m will expire in 2020.
The remaining 34.0m of losses are time limited with 5.5m expiring in 2034, 20.3m in 2035 and 8.2m in 2036.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Deferred tax continued Year ended 31 March 2017 Deferred tax asset Short-term Pension timing all figures in million liability differences Losses Total At 1 April 2016 1.5 8.0 9.5 Charged credited to income statement 1.7 1.1 3.7 3.1 Charged to other comprehensive income 31.2 31.2 Transfer to current tax 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 1.0 1.0 Acquired in business combinations 0.1 0.1 Transfer to liability 31.4 31.4 Gross deferred tax asset at 31 March 2017 9.9 3.7 13.6 Less: liability available for offset 8.2 Net deferred tax asset at 31 March 2017 5.4 Deferred tax liability Accelerated Pension capital Acquisition all figures in million surplus allowances intangibles Total At 1 April 2016 3.1 2.3 5.4 Charged to income statement 1.9 0.2 2.1 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 0.1 Acquired in business combinations 6.2 6.2 Transfer from asset 31.4 31.4 Gross deferred tax liability at 31 March 2017 31.4 4.9 8.9 45.2 Less: asset available for offset 8.2 Net deferred tax liability at 31 March 2017 37.0 18.
Inventories As at 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Raw materials 18.3 12.1 Work in progress 9.2 6.1 Finished goods 10.6 10.7 38.1 28.9 19.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Trade receivables 66.7 75.6 Amounts recoverable under contracts 62.3 54.5 Other receivables 7.9 32.1 Prepayments 13.4 13.4 150.3 175.6 In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was granted to the reporting date.
Credit risk is limited as a result of the high percentage of revenue derived from UK and US government agencies.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that no credit provision in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts is required.
As at 31 March 2018 the Group carried a provision for doubtful debts of 1.5m 2017: 2.0m.
The reduction in other receivables relates to recovery from insurers of amounts required to settle a tax dispute.
112 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables all figures in million 2018 2017 Up to three months 10.5 5.5 Over three months 0.6 3.7 11.1 9.2 Movements in the doubtful debt provision all figures in million 2018 2017 At 1 April 2.0 4.1 Created 0.5 0.2 Released 0.1 1.4 Utilised 0.8 1.0 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 1.5 2.0 The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Current asset investments As at 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Current asset investments 0.7 1.3 At 31 March 2018 the Group held a 2.6% shareholding in pSivida Limited 2017: 2.6%, a company listed on NASDAQ and the Australian and Frankfurt Stock Exchanges.
The investment is held at fair value using the closing share price at 31 March 2018 of A$1.48 per share 2017: A$2.34 per share.
Trade and other payables As at 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Trade payables 83.0 37.4 Other tax and social security 26.3 34.8 Deferred income 88.0 97.1 Accrued expenses and other payables 137.6 152.8 Total current trade and other payables 334.9 322.1 Deferred income 6.1 7.7 Other payables 12.6 4.8 Total non-current trade and other payables 18.7 12.5 Total trade and other payables 353.6 334.6 22.
Current tax As at 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Current tax liability 8.9 43.7 The decrease in the liability is primarily due to the settlement of a tax liability in the US related to an unfavourable court decision in respect of the tax treatment of the Groups acquisition of Dominion Technology Resources, Inc. in 2008.
The settlement was funded through a recovery under an insurance policy the receivable for which had previously been included within trade and other receivables.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Provisions Year ended 31 March 2018 all figures in million Property Other Total At 1 April 2017 13.0 11.0 24.0 Created in year 0.9 3.6 4.5 Released in year 1.5 4.7 6.2 Unwind of discount 0.1 0.1 Utilised in year 1.9 0.1 2.0 Reclassification 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2018 11.1 9.2 20.3 Current liability 1.9 4.1 6.0 Non-current liability 9.2 5.1 14.3 At 31 March 2018 11.1 9.2 20.3 Property provisions relate to under-utilised properties in the UK.
The extent of the provision is affected by the timing of when properties can be sub-let and the proportion of space that can be sub-let.
Based on current assessment the provision will be utilised within 10 years.
Other provisions relate to environmental and other liabilities, the magnitude and timing of utilisation of which are determined by a variety of factors.
Net cash As at 31 March 2018 2017 all figures in million Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Current financial assets liabilities Deferred financing costs 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Available-for-sale investment 15.7 15.7 10.4 10.4 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 2.6 1.5 0.8 0.8 Total current financial assets liabilities 16.9 2.6 14.3 10.7 0.8 9.9 Non-current assets liabilities Deferred financing costs 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 1.9 1.6 0.3 0.3 Total non-current financial assets liabilities 0.3 1.9 1.6 0.5 0.3 0.2 Total financial assets liabilities 17.2 4.5 12.7 11.2 1.1 10.1 Cash 128.0 128.0 88.9 88.9 Cash equivalents 126.1 126.1 122.9 122.9 Total cash and cash equivalents 254.1 254.1 211.8 211.8 Total net cash as defined by the Group 266.8 221.9 At 31 March 2018 the Group held 2.2m 2017: 1.5m of cash which is restricted in its use.
The available for sale investment is a Libor-plus investment fund investing in a portfolio of AAA and AA-rated asset backed securities and corporate floating rate notes.
114 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25.
Operating leases Group as a lessor The Group receives rental income on certain properties.
Primarily these are properties partially occupied by Group companies, with vacant space sub-let to third-party tenants.
The Group had contracted with tenants for the following future minimum lease payments: all figures in million 2018 2017 Within one year 4.6 5.3 In the second to fifth years inclusive 10.1 8.8 Greater than five years 5.3 6.1 20.0 20.2 Group as a lessee all figures in million 2018 2017 Lease and sub-lease income statement expense for the year 7.5 6.7 The Group had the following total future minimum lease payment commitments: all figures in million 2018 2017 Within one year 7.5 8.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive 17.2 17.5 Greater than five years 3.5 6.1 28.2 31.8 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group on certain property, plant and equipment.
Principal operating leases are negotiated for a term of approximately 10 years.
Financial risk management The Groups international operations expose it to financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity risks.
Treasury and risk management policies, which are set by the Board, specify guidelines on financial risks and the use of financial instruments to manage risk.
The instruments and techniques used to manage exposures include foreign currency derivatives.
Group treasury monitors financial risks and compliance with risk management policies during the year.
There have been no changes in any risk management policies during the year or since the year end.
A Fair values of financial instruments The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 2 derivatives comprise forward foreign exchange contracts which have been fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market Level 3 measured using inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 March 2018: all figures in million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Available for sale investments 24 15.7 15.7 Current other investments 20 0.7 0.7 Current derivative financial instruments 24 1.1 1.1 Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 Liabilities Current derivative financial instruments 24 2.6 2.6 Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 1.9 1.9 Total 16.4 3.1 13.3 Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Financial risk management continued The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 March 2017: all figures in million Note Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Available for sale investments 24 10.4 10.4 Current other investments 20 1.3 1.3 Non-current other investments 0.1 0.1 Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 Liabilities Current derivative financial instruments 24 0.8 0.8 Non-current derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 Total 11.7 0.8 0.1 11.0 For cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and bank and current borrowings, the fair value of the financial instruments approximate to their carrying value as a result of the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within the carrying value for credit risk.
For other financial instruments, the fair value is based on market value, where available.
Where market values are not available, the fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows to net present value using prevailing market-based interest rates translated at the year-end rates, except for unlisted fixed asset investments where fair value equals carrying value.
There have been no transfers between levels.
All financial assets and liabilities had a fair value that is identical to book value at 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017.
Detailed analysis is provided in the tables below: As at 31 March 2018 Financial liabilities at Derivatives Total Available Loans and amortised used as carrying Total fair all figures in million Note for sale receivables cost hedges value value Financial assets Non-current Derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 0.3 Current Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 19 136.9 136.9 136.9 Derivative financial instruments 24 1.1 1.1 1.1 Current asset investments 20 0.7 0.7 0.7 Available for sale investment 24 15.7 15.7 15.7 Deferred financing costs 24 0.1 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 24 254.1 254.1 254.1 Total financial assets 16.4 391.0 0.1 1.4 408.9 408.9 Financial liabilities Non-current Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 21 12.6 12.6 12.6 Derivative financial instruments 24 1.9 1.9 1.9 Current Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 21 246.9 246.9 246.9 Derivative financial instruments 24 2.6 2.6 2.6 Total financial liabilities 259.5 4.5 264.0 264.0 Total 16.4 391.0 259.4 3.1 144.9 144.9 116 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As at 31 March 2017 Financial liabilities at Derivatives Total Available Loans and amortised used as carrying Total fair all figures in million Note for sale receivables cost hedges value value Financial assets Non-current Derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 0.3 Deferred financing costs 24 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other investments 16 0.1 0.1 0.1 Current Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 19 162.2 162.2 162.2 Current asset investments 20 1.3 1.3 1.3 Available for sale investment 24 10.4 10.4 10.4 Deferred financing costs 24 0.3 0.3 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 24 211.8 211.8 211.8 Total financial assets 11.8 374.0 0.5 0.3 386.6 386.6 Financial liabilities Non-current Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 21 4.8 4.8 4.8 Derivative financial instruments 24 0.3 0.3 0.3 Current Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 21 225.0 225.0 225.0 Derivative financial instruments 24 0.8 0.8 0.8 Total financial liabilities 229.8 1.1 230.9 230.9 Total 11.8 374.0 229.3 0.8 155.7 155.7 B Interest rate risk The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise interest costs and to reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups current policy is to require rates to be fixed for 30%80% of the level of borrowings, which is achieved primarily through fixed-rate borrowings.
Where there are significant changes in the level and or structure of debt, policy permits borrowings to be 100% fixed, with regular Board reviews of the appropriateness of this fixed percentage.
At 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 the Group had no borrowings.
Financial assets liabilities As at 31 March 2018 Financial assets Financial liabilities Non-interest Non-interest all figures in million Floating bearing Floating bearing Sterling 224.3 17.1 4.5 US dollar 20.5 Euro 7.3 Australian dollar 0.7 0.7 Other 1.3 254.1 17.8 4.5 As at 31 March 2017 Financial assets Financial liabilities Non-interest Non-interest all figures in million Floating bearing Floating bearing Sterling 187.1 10.7 1.1 US dollar 12.7 0.1 Euro 2.7 Australian dollar 5.1 1.3 Other 4.2 211.8 12.1 1.1 Floating-rate financial assets attract interest based on the relevant national LIBID equivalent.
Floating-rate financial liabilities bear interest at the relevant national LIBOR equivalent.
Trade and other receivables payables and deferred finance costs are excluded from this analysis.
Interest rate risk management The revolving credit facility note 26E is floating-rate and undrawn as at 31 March 2018.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Financial risk management continued C Currency risk Transactional currency exposure The Group is exposed to foreign currency risks arising from sales or purchases by businesses in currencies other than their functional currency.
It is Group policy that when such a sale or purchase is certain, the net foreign exchange exposure is hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Hedge accounting documentation and effectiveness testing are undertaken for all the Groups transactional hedge contracts.
The table below shows the Groups currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating company involved.
Functional currency of the operating company Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities all figures in millions US$ Euro A$ Other Total 31 March 2018 Sterling 2.3 3.5 0.2 0.9 6.9 31 March 2017 Sterling 7.5 2.9 0.1 0.6 11.1 The amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency exposures that arise on sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, as the transaction occurs.
The principal contract amounts of the outstanding forward currency contracts as at 31 March 2018 against Sterling are net US dollars bought of 10.5m US$12.9m, net Euros bought of 0.9m 0.8m, net Swiss Francs bought of 19.9m CHF 25.2m and net Swedish Krona bought of 9.3m SEK 105.2m.
Translational currency exposure The Group has significant investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US.
As a result, the Sterling value of the Groups balance sheet can be affected by movement in exchange rates.
The Group does not hedge against translational currency exposure to overseas net assets.
D Financial credit risk The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but does not currently expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
Credit risk is mitigated by a Board-approved policy of only selecting counterparties with a strong investment grade long-term credit rating for cash deposits.
In the normal course of business the Group operates notional cash pooling systems, where a legal right of set-off applies.
The maximum credit-risk exposure in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations under financial assets, excluding trade and other receivables, totals 271.9m 2017: 223.9m.
The Group held cash and cash equivalents of 254.1m at 31 March 2018 2017: 211.8m, which represents the maximum credit exposure on these assets.
The cash and cash equivalents were held with different financial institutions which were rated single A or better, although 126.1m 2017: 122.9m was invested in AAA-rated money funds at the year end.
E Liquidity risk Borrowing facilities As at 31 March 2018 the Group had a revolving credit facility RCF of US$100m and 166m 2017: US$100m and 166m.
The RCF is contracted until 2019 and is un-utilised as shown in the table below: Interest rate: Total Drawn Undrawn LIBOR plus m m m Committed facilities 31 March 2018 0.65% 237.3 237.3 Freely available cash and cash equivalents 251.9 Available funds 31 March 2018 489.2 Committed facilities 31 March 2017 0.65% 245.7 245.7 Freely available cash and cash equivalents 210.3 Available funds 31 March 2017 456.0 118 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Gross contractual cash flows for borrowings and other financial liabilities The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments.
The cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to have an impact on profit or loss in the periods shown.
As at 31 March 2018 Contractual 1 year More than all figures in million Book value cash flows or less 12 years 25 years 5 years Financial assets Deferred financing costs 0.1 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 259.5 259.5 246.9 12.6 Derivative financial liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 4.5 4.5 2.6 1.4 0.5 263.9 264.0 249.5 14.0 0.5 As at 31 March 2017 Contractual 1 year More than all figures in million Book value cash flows or less 12 years 25 years 5 years Financial assets Deferred financing costs 0.5 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 229.8 229.8 225.0 4.8 Derivative financial liabilities Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 1.1 1.1 0.8 0.3 230.4 230.9 225.8 5.1 F Derivative financial instruments As at 31 March 2018 2017 Liability Liability all figures in million Asset gains losses Net Asset gains losses Net Forward foreign currency contracts cash flow hedges 1.4 4.5 3.1 0.3 1.1 0.8 Derivative assets liabilities at the end of the year 1.4 4.5 3.1 0.3 1.1 0.8 As at 31 March 2018 2017 Liability Liability all figures in million Asset gains losses Net Asset gains losses Net Expected to be recognised: In one year or less 1.1 2.6 1.5 0.8 0.8 Between one and two years 0.2 1.4 1.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 More than two years 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.2 Derivative assets liabilities at the end of the year 1.4 4.5 3.1 0.3 1.1 0.8 G Maturity of financial liabilities As at 31 March 2018 Bank Trade and borrowings Derivative other and loan financial 1 all figures in million payables notes instruments Total Due in one year or less 246.9 0.1 2.6 249.4 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 12.6 1.4 14.0 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 0.5 0.5 259.5 0.1 4.5 263.9 1 Excluding deferred income As at 31 March 2017 Bank Trade and borrowings Derivative other and loan financial 1 all figures in million payables notes instruments Total Due in one year or less 225.0 0.3 0.8 225.5 Due in more than one year but not more than two years 4.8 0.2 0.3 4.9 Due in more than two years but not more than five years 229.8 0.5 1.1 230.4 1 Excluding deferred income Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Financial risk management continued H Sensitivity analysis The Groups sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2018 is set out in the following table.
The impact of a weakening in Sterling on the Groups financial assets and liabilities would be more than offset in equity and income by its impact on the Groups overseas net assets and earnings respectively.
Sensitivity on Groups assets other than financial assets and liabilities is not included in this analysis.
As at 31 March 2018 1% decrease in 10% weakening interest rates in Sterling Profit Profit 1 all figures in million Equity before tax Equity before tax Sterling 2.2 US dollar 0.2 1.7 Other 0.1 1.1 1% increase in 10% strengthening interest rates in Sterling Profit Profit 1 all figures in million Equity before tax Equity before tax Sterling 2.2 US dollar 0.2 1.4 Other 0.1 0.9 1 This relates to the impact on items charged directly to equity and excludes the impact on profit loss for the year flowing into equity.
As at 31 March 2017 1% decrease in 10% weakening interest rates in Sterling Profit Profit 1 all figures in million Equity before tax Equity before tax Sterling 1.9 US dollar 0.1 1.4 Other 0.1 1.5 1% increase in 10% strengthening interest rates in Sterling Profit Profit 1 all figures in million Equity before tax Equity before tax Sterling 1.9 US dollar 0.1 1.2 Other 0.1 1.2 1 This relates to the impact on items charged directly to equity and excludes the impact on profit loss for the year flowing into equity.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are forward-looking estimates of market risk assuming that certain market conditions occur.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from those projected as a result of developments in global financial markets that may cause fluctuations in interest and exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the previous tables, which should not, therefore, be considered to be a projection of likely future events and losses.
The estimated changes for interest rate movements are based on an instantaneous decrease or increase of 1% 100 basis points in the specific rate of interest applicable to each class of financial instruments from the levels effective at 31 March 2018, with all other variables remaining constant.
The estimated changes for foreign exchange rates are based on an instantaneous 10% weakening or strengthening in Sterling against all other currencies from the levels applicable at 31 March 2018, with all other variables remaining constant.
Such analysis is for illustrative purposes only in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
The impact of transactional risk on the Groups monetary assets liabilities that are not held in the functional currency of the entity holding those assets liabilities is minimal.
A 10% weakening in Sterling would also result in a minimal increase in profit before tax.
120 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27.
Cash flows from operations For the year ended 31 March all figures in million 2018 2017 Profit after tax for the year 138.1 123.3 Adjustments for: Taxation expense 6.7 8.2 Net finance income expense 3.8 1.2 Gain on sale of investment 0.6 Gain on sale of property 14.6 18.4 Transaction costs in respect of acquisition of businesses 1.0 Amortisation of purchased or internally developed intangible assets 3.7 2.6 Amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions 2.6 1.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 25.6 26.4 Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 2.9 1.2 Share of post-tax profit of equity accounted entities 0.3 0.5 Share-based payments charge 2.4 2.1 Retirement benefit contributions in excess of income statement expense 12.4 11.4 Net movement in provisions 3.7 4.5 146.6 141.2 Increase in inventories 10.8 Decrease in receivables 19.0 2.9 Decrease in payables 22.4 32.2 Changes in working capital 14.2 29.3 Net cash flow from operations 132.4 111.9 Reconciliation of net cash flow from operations to underlying net cash flow from operations to free cash flow all figures in million 2018 2017 Net cash flow from operations 132.4 111.9 Less specific adjusting items: proceeds from sale of intellectual property 5.9 Underlying net cash flow from operations 126.5 111.9 Less: tax and net interest payments 15.7 2.6 Less: purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 54.5 32.9 Free cash flow 56.3 76.4 Underlying cash conversion ratio all figures in million 2018 2017 Underlying operating profit million 122.5 116.3 Underlying net cash flow from operations million 126.5 111.9 Underlying cash conversion ratio % 103% 96% 28.
Share capital and other reserves Shares allotted, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares Special Share of 1p each equity of 1 non-equity Total Number Number Number At 1 April 2016 5,866,812 586,681,200 1 1 5,866,813 586,681,201 Cancelled in the year 149,241 14,924,079 149,241 14,924,079 At 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018 5,717,571 571,757,121 1 1 5,717,572 571,757,122 Except as noted below all shares in issue at 31 March 2018 rank pari-passu in all respects.
In May 2014 the Company initiated a 150m capital return to shareholders by way of a share buyback and this programme was complete at 31 March 2016.
A further 50m share buyback was announced in November 2015 and was completed at 31 March 2017.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Share capital and other reserves continued Rights attaching to the Special Share QinetiQ carries out activities which are important to UK defence and security interests.
To protect these interests in the context of the ongoing commercial relationship between the MOD and QinetiQ, and to promote and reinforce the Compliance Principles, the MOD holds a Special Share in QinetiQ.
QinetiQ obtained MOD consent to changes in its Special Shareholder rights, which were approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
The changes to the Special Share were disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report.
Subsequent to the changes approved at the 2012 AGM the Special Share confers certain rights on the holder: a to require the Group to implement and maintain the Compliance System as defined in the Articles of Association so as to make at all times effective its and each member of QinetiQ Controlled Groups application of the Compliance Principles, in a manner acceptable to the Special Shareholder b to refer matters to the Board for its consideration in relation to the application of the Compliance Principles c to require the Board to obtain Special Shareholders consent: i if at any time when the chairman is not a British citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chief executive, who is not a British citizen ii if at any time when the chief executive is not a British citizen, it is proposed to appoint any person to the office of chairman, who is not a British citizen d to require the Board to take action to rectify any omission in the application of the Compliance Principles, if the Special Shareholder is of the opinion that such steps are necessary to protect the defence or security interests of the United Kingdom e to demand a poll at any of QinetiQs meetings even though it may have no voting rights except those specifically set out in the Articles.
The Special Shareholder has an option to purchase defined Strategic Assets of the Group in certain circumstances.
The Special Shareholder has, inter alia, the right to purchase any Strategic Assets which the Group wishes to sell.
Strategic Assets are normally testing and research facilities see note 31 for further details.
The Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred to HM Government or as it directs.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the Special Share at par.
If QinetiQ is wound up the Special Shareholder will be entitled to be repaid the capital paid up on the Special Share before other shareholders receive any payment.
The Special Shareholder has no other right to share in the capital or profits of QinetiQ.
The Special Shareholder must give consent to a general meeting held on short notice.
The Special Share entitles the Special Shareholder to require certain persons who hold together with any person acting in concert with them a material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares in certain prescribed circumstances on the grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
The Directors must register any transfer of the Special Share within seven days.
Other reserves The translation reserve includes the cumulative foreign exchange difference arising on translation since the Group transitioned to IFRS.
Movements on hedge instruments, where the hedge is effective, are recorded in the hedge reserve until the hedge ceases.
The capital redemption reserve, which was created following the redemption of preference share capital and the bonus issue of shares, cannot be distributed.
Own shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by independent trusts and include treasury shares and shares held by the employee share ownership plan.
Included in retained earnings at 31 March 2018 are 7,934,634 shares 2017: 8,957,048 shares.
122 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans for employees.
The total share-based payment expense in the year was 2.7m, of which 2.7m related to equity-settled schemes and nil related to cash-settled schemes 2017: 3.3m, of which 3.3m related to equity-settled schemes and nil to cash-settled schemes.
The share-based payment charged to equity is 2.7m consisting of the 2.7m charge to the income statement and share-based payment dividend equivalents of 0.3m offset with 0.3m cash payment relating to the Bonus Banking Plan.
Performance Share Plan PSP In the year, the Group made awards of conditional shares to certain UK senior employees under the PSP.
The awards vest after three years with 50% of the awards subject to TSR conditions and 50% subject to EPS conditions as detailed in the Report from the Remuneration Committee.
2018 2017 Number Number of shares of shares Outstanding at start of the year 8,583,157 8,914,560 Granted during the year 102,136 3,225,611 Exercised during the year 1,136,685 50,000 Forfeited lapsed during the year 1,560,387 3,507,014 Outstanding at end of the year 5,988,221 8,583,157 PSP awards are equity-settled awards and those outstanding at 31 March 2018 had an average remaining life of 0.8 years 2017: 1.4 years.
There is no exercise price for these PSP awards.
Monte Carlo modelling was used to fair value the TSR element of the awards at grant date.
Assumptions used in the models included 21% 2017: 23% for the average share price volatility of the FTSE comparator group and 58% 2017: 57% for the average correlation to the comparator group.
The weighted average fair value of grants made during the year was 2.02 2017: 1.72.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise was 2.78 2017: 2.68.
Of the options outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable 2017: nil.
Restricted Stock Units RSU In prior years the Group granted RSU awards to certain senior US employees under the RSU plan.
The awards vest over one, two, three and four years.
Of the 2014 awards, and the awards granted before 2012, half are dependent on achieving QNA organic profit growth targets and half on a time-based criterion.
The time-based criterion requires the employee to have been in continual service up to the date of vesting.
QNA organic profit growth is measured over the most recent financial year compared with the previous financial year, with 125% of this element awarded at a QNA organic profit growth rate above 15%, 100% awarded at 12.5%, 75% awarded at 10% and 25% awarded at 5%.
The 2012 grants are entirely dependent on achieving QNA organic profit growth targets.
67.5% of the 2013 grants are dependent on achieving QNA organic profit growth targets and 32.5% are dependent on a time-based criterion.
2018 2017 Number Number of shares of shares Outstanding at start of the year 3,750 24,375 Granted during the year 469 Exercised during the year 4,219 20,625 Outstanding at end of the year 3,750 RSUs are equity-settled awards: those outstanding at 31 March 2018 had an average remaining life of nil years 2017: 0.3 years.
There is no exercise price for these RSU awards.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise was 2.42 2017: 2.27.
Of the awards outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable 2017: nil.
Group Share Incentive Plan SIP Under the QinetiQ SIP the Group offers UK employees the opportunity of purchasing up to 150 worth of shares a month at the prevailing market rate.
The Group will make a matching share award of a third of the employees payment.
The Groups matching shares may be forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by QinetiQ within three years of the award of the shares.
There is no exercise price for these SIP awards.
2018 2017 Number of Number of matching matching shares shares Outstanding at start of the year 828,448 805,785 Awarded during the year 342,413 323,193 Exercised during the year 277,839 248,355 Forfeited during the year 39,510 52,175 Outstanding at end of the year 853,512 828,448 SIP matching shares are equity-settled awards: those outstanding at 31 March 2018 had an average remaining life of 1.5 years 2017: 1.5 years.
Of the shares outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable 2017: nil.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
Share-based payments continued Group Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB Under the QinetiQ DAB Plan the Group requires certain senior executives to defer part of their annual bonus as shares and be entitled to matching awards to a maximum of 1:1 based on EPS performance.
The number that will vest is dependent on the growth of EPS over the measurement period of three years as detailed in the Report from the Remuneration Committee.
2018 2017 Number of Number of matching matching shares shares Outstanding at start of the year 17,253 311,500 Exercised during the year 7,148 Forfeited during the year 10,105 294,247 Outstanding at end of the year 17,253 DAB matching shares are equity-settled awards: those outstanding at 31 March 2018 had an average remaining life of nil years 2017: 0.3 years.
The weighted average share price at date of exercise was 2.63 2017: nil.
Of the shares outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable.
Bonus Banking Plan BBP During the year the Group granted BBP awards to certain senior executives in the UK.
2018 2017 Number of Number of matching matching shares shares Outstanding at start of the year 786,195 814,778 Granted during the year 709,755 512,003 Exercised during the year 143,923 534,818 Forfeited during the year 27,486 5,768 Outstanding at end of the year 1,324,541 786,195 The BBP is a remuneration scheme that runs for four years with effect from 1 April 2014.
Refer to the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Under the BBP a contribution will be made by the Company into the participants plan account at the start of each plan year.
50% of the value of a participants bonus account will be paid out annually for three years with 100% of the residual value paid out at the end of year four.
50% of the unpaid balance of a participants bonus account will be at risk of forfeiture.
At 31 March 2018, the awards had an average remaining life of 1.5 years 2017: 1.8 years.
There is no exercise price for these awards.
The fair value of the awards at 31 March 2018 was 2.06 2017: 2.80 being the Groups 30 day average share price in the period running up to 31 March.
Of the awards outstanding at the end of the year nil were exercisable.
Deferred Share Plan DSP During the year the Group granted DSP awards to certain senior executives.
2018 2017 Number of Number of awards awards Outstanding at start of the year Granted during the year 2,518,384 Outstanding at end of the year 2,518,384 Deferred share-based element is earned based on the satisfaction of pre-grant annual performance assessment and remains subject to a strategic growth underpin which for 2018 is operating profit.
The award is subject to a three-year vesting period and a further two-year holding period.
At 31 March 2018 the awards had an average remaining life of 2.1 years.
The fair value of the awards at 31 March 2018 was 2.06 being the Groups 30 day average share price in the period running up to 31 March.
Share-based award pricing other Share-based awards that vest based on non-market performance conditions, including certain PSP, RSUs and DAB awards, have been valued at the share price at grant.
124 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 30.
Post-retirement benefits Defined contribution plans In the UK the Group operates two defined contribution plans for the majority of its UK employees: a Group Personal Pension Plan GPP and a defined contribution section of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme.
These are both defined contribution schemes managed by Scottish Widows.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group and employees pay fixed contributions to a third-party financial provider.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit pension plans In the UK the Group operates the QinetiQ Pension Scheme the Scheme for a significant proportion of its UK employees.
The Scheme closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
After this date, defined benefit members transferred to a defined contribution scheme.
The Scheme is a final salary plan, which provides benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and their final pensionable earnings at closure to future accrual.
In the Scheme, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with the Consumer Price Index CPI.
The benefit payments are made from Trustee-administered funds.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by UK regulations as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustees and their composition.
Responsibility for the governance of the Scheme including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies jointly with the Company and the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees must be composed of representatives of the Company and plan participants in accordance with the Schemes regulations.
The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated bi-annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the agreed contributions have been paid.
The expected employer cash contribution to the Scheme for the year ending 31 March 2019 is 2.5m.
Triennial funding valuation The most recent completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was undertaken as at 30 June 2017 and resulted in an actuarially assessed surplus of 139.7m relative to the technical provisions i. e. the level of assets agreed by the Trustee and the Company as being appropriate to meet member benefits, assuming the Scheme continues as a going concern.
The next triennial valuation will be performed as at 30 June 2020.
The agreed recovery plan requires 2.5m per annum distributions to the Scheme until 31 March 2032, indexed by reference to CPI.
Such distributions are from the Groups Pension Funding Partnership.
The previous recovery plan required 13.0m contributions per annum until 31 March 2018, including 2.5m p. a. distributions to the Scheme, indexed by reference to CPI, from the Groups Pension Funding Partnership.
QinetiQs Pension Funding Partnership PFP structure Following the 30 June 2011 valuation, a package of pension changes was agreed with the Trustees to provide stability to the Scheme.
As part of the package of proposals, on 26 March 2012 QinetiQ established the QinetiQ PFP Limited Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, properties to the capitalised value of 32.3m were transferred to the Partnership.
The transfers were affected through a 20-year sale and leaseback agreement.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution of approximately 2.5m for 20 years, indexed with reference to CPI.
These contributions replaced part of the regular contributions made under the past deficit recovery payments plan.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership will revert back to QinetiQ Limited in 2032.
The Partnership is controlled by QinetiQ and its results are consolidated by the Group.
Under IAS 19, the interest held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements and is, therefore, not included within the fair value of plan assets.
As a result, the Groups consolidated financial statements are unchanged by the Partnership.
In addition, the value of the property transferred to the Partnership and leased back to QinetiQ remains on the balance sheet.
QinetiQ retains the operational flexibility to substitute properties of equivalent value within the Partnership and has the option to settle outstanding amounts due under the interest before 2032 if it so chooses.
Other UK schemes In the UK the Group has a small number of employees for whom benefits are secured through the Prudential Platinum Scheme.
The net pension deficits of this scheme at 31 March 2018 amounted to nil 2017: nil.
QinetiQ also offers employees access to a Group Self Invested Personal Pension Plan, but no Company contributions are paid to this arrangement.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Post-retirement benefits continued QinetiQ Pension Scheme net pension asset The fair value of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of the Schemes liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods, and thus inherently uncertain, were: 2018 2017 Not quoted Not quoted in an active in an active all figures in million Quoted market Total Quoted market Total Equities 115.8 58.9 174.7 284.0 71.4 355.4 LDI investment 1,050.9 1,050.9 968.2 968.2 Corporate bonds 311.3 311.3 340.6 340.6 Alternative bonds 197.9 35.0 232.9 132.3 132.3 Property fund 138.7 138.7 126.7 126.7 Cash and cash equivalents 80.2 80.2 3.1 3.1 Derivatives 1.8 1.8 Total market value of assets 1,896.6 93.9 1,990.5 1,854.9 71.4 1,926.3 Present value of Scheme liabilities 1,674.3 1,770.3 Net pension asset before deferred tax 316.2 156.0 Deferred tax liability 58.6 31.4 Net pension asset after deferred tax 257.6 124.6 The Scheme has assets invested in a Liability Driven Investment portfolio.
As at 31 March 2018 this hedges against 85% of the interest rate and 100% of the inflation rate risk, as measured on the Trustees gilt-funding basis.
Includes allocations to high-yield bonds, secured loans and emerging market debt.
The Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own transferable financial instruments, property occupied by, or other assets used by the Group.
Changes to the fair value of Scheme assets all figures in million 2018 2017 Opening fair value of Scheme assets 1,926.3 1,410.4 Interest income on Scheme assets 49.8 47.6 Re-measurement gain on Scheme assets 34.8 492.0 Contributions by the employer 13.4 12.9 Net benefits paid out and transfers 32.8 35.1 Administrative expenses 1.0 1.5 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 1,990.5 1,926.3 Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation all figures in million 2018 2017 Opening defined benefit obligation 1,770.3 1,448.1 Interest cost 45.6 48.6 Actuarial gain loss on Scheme liabilities based on: Change in demographic assumptions 70.4 Change in financial assumptions 31.8 329.4 Experience gains 6.6 20.7 Net benefits paid out and transfers 32.8 35.1 Closing defined benefit obligation 1,674.3 1,770.3 126 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Changes to the net pension asset liability all figures in million 2018 2017 Opening net pension asset liability 156.0 37.7 Net finance income expense 4.2 1.0 Net actuarial gain 143.6 183.3 Administrative expenses 1.0 1.5 Contributions by the employer 13.4 12.9 Closing net pension asset 316.2 156.0 Total expense recognised in the income statement all figures in million 2018 2017 Net finance income expense on the net pension asset liability 4.2 1.0 Administrative expenses 1.0 1.5 Total net income expense recognised in the income statement gross of deferred tax 3.2 2.5 Assumptions The major assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation of the Scheme were: all figures in million 2018 2017 Discount rate applied to Scheme liabilities 2.60% 2.60% CPI inflation assumption 2.25% 2.35% Assumed life expectancies in years: Future male pensioners currently aged 60 88 89 Future female pensioners currently aged 60 90 91 Future male pensioners currently aged 40 90 91 Future female pensioners currently aged 40 92 93 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, because of the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
It is important to note that these assumptions are long term and, in the case of the discount rate and the inflation rate, are measured by external market indicators.
The mortality assumptions as at 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 were 90% of S2PMA for males and 90% of S2PFA for females, based on year of birth making allowance for improvements in mortality in line with CMI 2016 Core Projections 2017: CMI 2013 Core Projections and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.5% per annum.
The balance sheet net pension asset is a snapshot view which can be significantly influenced by short-term market factors.
The calculation of the surplus or deficit depends, therefore, on factors which are beyond the control of the Group principally the value at the balance sheet date of equity shares and other assets in which the Scheme has invested and long-term interest rates which are used to discount future liabilities.
The funding of the Scheme is based on long-term trends and assumptions relating to market growth, as advised by qualified actuaries and investment advisors.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is approximately 20 years.
Sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions Indicative impact on Scheme Indicative impact on Assumption Change in assumption liabilities before deferred tax net pension asset Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by 31m Decrease by 11m Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% Increase by 34m Increase by 17m Life expectancy Increase by one year Increase by 46m Decrease by 46m The impact of movements in Scheme liabilities will, to an extent, be offset by movements in the value of Scheme assets as the Scheme has assets invested in a Liability Driven Investment portfolio.
As at 31 March 2018 this hedges against approximately 85% of the interest rate and 100% of the inflation rate risk, as measured on the Trustees gilt-funded basis.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method projected unit credit method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
The methods and types of assumption did not change.
Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Post-retirement benefits continued Risks Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Volatility in market conditions Results under IAS 19 can change dramatically depending on market conditions.
The defined benefit obligation is linked to yields on AA-rated corporate bonds, while many of the assets of the Scheme are invested in other assets.
Changing markets in conjunction with discount rate volatility will lead to volatility in the net pension asset on the Groups balance sheet and in other comprehensive income.
To a lesser extent this will also lead to volatility in the IAS 19 pension net finance income in the Groups income statement.
Choice of accounting The calculation of the defined benefit obligation DBO involves projecting future cash flows from the Scheme many years into assumptions the future.
This means that the assumptions used can have a material impact on the balance sheet position and profit and loss charge.
In practice future experience within the Scheme may not be in line with the assumptions adopted.
For example, members could live longer than foreseen or inflation could be higher or lower than allowed for in the DBO calculation.
The accounting assumptions noted above are used to calculate the year end net pension asset liability in accordance with the relevant accounting standard, IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits.
Changes in these assumptions have no impact on the Groups cash payments into the Scheme.
The payments into the Scheme are reassessed after every triennial valuation.
The triennial valuations are calculated on a funding basis and use a different set of assumptions, as agreed with the pension Trustees.
Transactions with the Ministry of Defence MOD The MOD continues to own its Special Share in QinetiQ which conveys certain rights as set out in note 28.
Transactions between the Group and the MOD are disclosed as follows: Freehold land and buildings and surplus properties Under the terms of the Groups acquisition of part of the business and certain assets of DERA from the MOD on 1 July 2001, the MOD retained certain rights in respect of the freehold land and buildings transferred.
Restrictions on transfer of title The title deeds of those properties with strategic assets see below include a clause that prevents their transfer without the approval of the MOD.
The MOD also has the right to purchase any strategic assets in certain circumstances.
MODs generic compliance regime Adherence to the generic compliance system is monitored by the Risk & CSR Committee.
Refer to the Committees report within the Corporate Governance Statement on page 60.
Strategic assets Under the Principal Agreement with the MOD, the QinetiQ controlled Group is not permitted without the written consent of the MOD, to: i dispose of or destroy all or any part of a strategic asset: or ii voluntarily undertake any closure of, or cease to provide a strategic capability by means of, all or any part of a strategic asset.
The net book value of assets identified as being strategic assets as at 31 March 2018 was 5.5m 2017: 6.3m.
Long Term Partnering Agreement On 27 February 2003 QinetiQ Limited entered into a Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA to provide test and evaluation T&E facilities and training support services to the MOD.
This is a 25-year contract with a total revenue value of up to 5.6bn, dependent on the level of usage by the MOD, under which QinetiQ Limited is committed to providing T&E services with increasing efficiencies through cost saving and innovative service delivery.
Elements of the contract are subject to re-pricing every five years and elements of the contract Test Aircrew Training and Air Ranges Modernisation have been contracted at a fixed price to 31 March 2028.
Other contracts with MOD The LTPA is the most significant contract QinetiQ has with the MOD.
In total approximately 62% of the Groups revenue comes directly from contracts with the MOD.
128 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 32.
Contingent liabilities and assets Subsidiary undertakings within the Group have given unsecured guarantees of 30.1m at 31 March 2018 2017: 46.1m in the ordinary course of business, typically in respect of performance bonds and rental guarantees.
The Company has on occasion been required to take legal action to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or otherwise and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties, including in respect of environmental and regulatory issues.
Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome.
The timing of utilisation of these provisions is uncertain pending the outcome of various court proceedings, ongoing investigations and negotiations.
However, no provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties unless management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified but the Directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that might be brought can be resisted successfully and therefore the possibility of any outflow in settlement is assessed as remote.
The Group has also not recognised contingent amounts receivable relating to property impairments in prior years that may potentially be recovered from the MOD.
Recovery is subject to future negotiations.
It is not considered practicable to calculate the value of this contingent asset.
Capital commitments The Group had the following capital commitments for which no provision has been made: all figures in million 2018 2017 Contracted 76.2 155.3 Capital commitments at 31 March 2018 include 74.3m 2017: 155.1m in relation to property, plant and equipment that will be wholly funded by a third-party customer under long-term contract arrangements.
These primarily relate to investments under the LTPA contract.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries and other related undertakings as at 31 March 2018 is detailed below.
Unless stated otherwise, the Groups holding comprises ordinary shares which are held indirectly by QinetiQ Group plc, with the exception of QinetiQ Group Holdings Limited which is held directly by QinetiQ Group plc.
The financial year end of each undertaking is 31 March other than BQ Solutions QSTP-LLC 31 December.
Name of company Country of incorporation Registered office 1 Subsidiaries 5 BJ Trustee Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Boldon James Holdings Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Boldon James Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Cody US Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Commerce Decisions Limited England & Wales Farnborough Commerce Decisions Pty Ltd Australia Level 33, 101 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia 5 CueSim Limited England & Wales Farnborough Foster-Miller Canada Limited Canada 318 Roxton Drive, Waterloo, Ontario, N2T 1R6, Canada 3 nd Foster-Miller Inc US 350 2 Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts, MA 02451 1104, USA 5 Graphics Research Corporation Limited England & Wales Farnborough 2 5 Gyldan 5 Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Leading Technology Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Metrix UK Limited England & Wales Farnborough 3 Optasense Canada Limited Canada 4 Robert Speck Parkway, Suite 1600, Mississauga ON LAZ 1S1, Canada 5 Optasense Holdings Limited England & Wales Farnborough 3 Optasense Inc US 5885 Trinity Parkway, Suite 130, Centreville, Virginia 20120-1969, USA 5 Optasense Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Precis 2187 Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Precis 2188 Limited England & Wales Farnborough QinetiQ Aerostructures Pty Ltd Australia Level 3, 210 Kings Way, South Melbourne, VIC 3205, Australia QinetiQ Australia Pty Ltd Australia Level 3, 210 Kings Way, South Melbourne, VIC 3205, Australia QinetiQ Consulting Pty Ltd Australia Unit 5 Level 1, 8 Brindabella Circuit, Brindabella Business Park, Majura NSW 2609, Australia 5 QinetiQ Corporate Finance Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Defence Training Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Estates Limited England & Wales Farnborough QinetiQ GP Limited Scotland 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ, Scotland 3 QinetiQ Group Canada Inc. Canada 5300 Commerce Court West, 199 Bay Street, Toronto ON M5L 1A9, Canada 5 QinetiQ Group Holdings Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Holdings Limited England & Wales Farnborough 3 QinetiQ Inc US 5885 Trinity Parkway, Suite 130, Centreville, Virginia 20120-1969, USA Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings continued Name of company Country of incorporation Registered office QinetiQ Insurance PCC Limited Guernsey Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, GY1 4ET Guernsey 5 QinetiQ Limited England & Wales Farnborough QinetiQ Novare Pty Ltd Australia Petrie House, level 6, 80 Petrie Terrace, Brisbane QLD 400, Australia 5 QinetiQ Overseas Holdings 2 Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Overseas Holdings Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Overseas Trading Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Partnership Finance Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee Limited England & Wales Farnborough 6 QinetiQ PFP Limited Partnership Scotland 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ, Scotland nd QinetiQ Philippines Company, Inc Philippines 22 Floor Corporate Centre, 139 Valero Street, Salcedo Village, Makati City, Philippines QinetiQ Pty Ltd Australia Level 33, 101 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia QinetiQ Services Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Level 33, 101 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia 5 Q Shelf Limited England & Wales Farnborough th QinetiQ Solutions Sdn.
Malaysia Suite 6.01, 6 Floor, Plaza See Hoy Chan, Jalan Raja Chulan 50200, Kuala Lumpur, W. P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia QinetiQ Space N. V. Belgium Hogenakkerhoekstraat, 9, 9150 Kruibeke, Belgium QinetiQ Sweden AB Sweden Advokatfirman Delphi, Box 1432, Stockholm, Sweden 5 QinetiQ Target Services Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 QinetiQ Target Systems Limited England & Wales Farnborough QinetiQ US Holdings, Inc.
US 5885 Trinity Parkway, Suite 130, Centreville, Virginia 20120-1969, USA 1 Redu Operational Services S. A Belgium Rue Devant les Hetres, 2B, 6890 Transinne, Belgium RubiKon Group Pty Limited Australia Level 33, 101 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000, Australia 5 Sensoptics Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Tarsier Limited England & Wales Farnborough 5 Trusted Experts Limited England & Wales Farnborough TSG International LLC US 350 Second Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451, USA 4 Associates Redu Space Services S. A Belgium Rue Devant les Hetres, 2B, 6890 Transinne, Belgium Trillium International I. L. P. Cayman Islands 179 Sullys Trail, Suite 305, Pittsford, NY, 14534, USA Joint venture 7 BQ Solutions QSTP-LLC Qatar Qatar Science & Technology Park, Innovation Centre Building, Office 307, Doha, Qatar 1 The Group owned 100% of the ordinary shares of the subsidiary undertakings except for Redu Operational Services S. A.
52% 2 Company limited by guarantee 3 The class of shares is common share 4 The Group owned 48% of Redu Space Services S. A. and 25% of Trillium International I. L. P 5 Cody Technology Park, Ively Road, Farnborough, Hampshire, GU14 OLX 6 Limited partnership.
The partners are all wholly-owned Group companies 7 The Group owned 49% of BQ Solutions QSTP-LLC 35.
Post balance sheet events Post year end, in April 2018, QinetiQ entered into an agreement to acquire E. I. S. Aircraft Operations Aircraft Operations or the Business, currently part of E. I. S. Aircraft Group, for 70 million on a cash-free, debt-free basis.
Aircraft Operations is a leading provider of airborne training services based in Germany, delivering  and operational readiness for military customers.
It generated 20.1m revenue and 5.4m EBITDA in the year to 31 December 2017.
The transaction is subject to certain regulatory and legal approvals and is expected to close towards the end of the first half of QinetiQs 2019 financial year.
Following completion, Aircraft Operations will continue to be led by its existing management team.
It will form part of QinetiQs International business unit and will be reported within QinetiQs EMEA Services division.
130 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
