Additional Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Online: Registrar: Equiniti Limited Equinitis website at https: help.
co. uk Shareview includes answers to frequently asked questions and provides www.
co. uk key forms for download.
Shareview also offers online access Tel: 0371 384 2021 to your shareholding where you can manage your account, register for electronic communications, see details of balance Shareholding enquiries movements and complete certain amendments online, such as The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
Enquiries regarding your changes to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register at shareholding, including the following administrative matters, www.
co. uk, click on Register and follow the steps.
should be addressed to Equiniti: Electronic communications Change of personal details such as change of name The Company offers shareholders the option to receive or address.
documentation and communications electronically, via Lost share certificates.
The wider use of electronic Dividend payment enquiries.
communications enables fast receipt of documents, reduces Direct dividend payments.
You can have your dividends paid the Companys printing, paper and postal costs and reduces the directly into a UK bank or building society account by Companys environmental impact.
Shareholders can register for completing a dividend mandate form.
The associated electronic communications at www.
co. uk and may dividend confirmation will still be sent to your registered also cast their vote for the 2018 Annual General Meeting address.
If you live outside the UK, Equiniti offers a global online quickly and easily using the Sharevote service by payments service which is available in certain countries and visiting www.
could enable you to receive your dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Donating shares to charity ShareGift Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on Contact details for registrar their own, can be donated to ShareGift, the share donation By post: charity registered charity no.
ShareGift transfers Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA the proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities based on donor suggestion.
If you would like further details By telephone: about ShareGift, please visit www.
org or telephone them on 020 7930 3737. outside the UK.
Share price L ines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public Details of current and historical share prices can be found on holidays in England and Wales.
the Companys website at www.
By email: You can send an email enquiry securely from Equinitis website, at https: help.
uk scams regarding the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of QinetiQ and its strategy, plans and objectives and FCA Consumer Helpline: the markets and economies in which it operates, are forwardlooking statements.
Such forward-looking statements, which 0800 111 6768 reflect managements assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time, involve known and Beware of share fraud unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure which could cause the actual results, performance or investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out achievements of QinetiQ or the markets and economies in to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated which QinetiQ operates to be materially different from future price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably such forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report lose your money.
should be regarded as a profit forecast.
How to avoid share fraud This Annual Report is intended to provide information to 2.
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are shareholders and is not designed to be relied upon by any other unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or party.
The Company and its Directors accept no liability to any sell shares.
other person other than under English law.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk Registered office Corporate brokers to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by Cody Technology Park J. P. Morgan the FCA.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, Farnborough London copying its website or giving you false contact details.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you GU14 0LX want to call it back.
Tel: 44 0 1252 392000 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 7.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have Company Registration 2 King Edward Street contact details on the Register or you are told they are Number: 4586941 London out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at Auditor www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised Savannah House Ashurst LLP firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman 3 Ocean Way Broadwalk House Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and SO14 3TJ London professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Registrar Equiniti Report a scam Aspect House If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using Spencer Road the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, Lancing where you can find out more about investment scams.
West Sussex You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on BN99 6DA 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Key dates 25 July 2018 Trading update 25 July 2018 Annual General Meeting 2 August 2018 Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 3 August 2018 Final 2018 dividend record date 31 August 2018 Final 2018 dividend payment date 30 September 2018 Half-year financial period end 15 November 2018 Half-year results announcement February 2019 Trading update provisional date 31 March 2019 Financial year end May 2019 Preliminary results announcement provisional date QinetiQ Group plc Registered office Cody Technology Park Ively Road, Farnborough Hampshire GU14 0LX United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1252 392000 www.
com Company Registration Number 4586941 QinetiQ Group plc Designed and produced by Superunion formerly Addison Group www.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk: a paper containing 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
