Additional Information ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Foreign exchange The Groups income and expenditure is largely settled in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity, mainly Sterling or US Dollar.
The Group has a policy in place to hedge all material transaction exposure at the point of commitment to the underlying transaction.
Uncommitted future transactions As a UK-listed company, the are not routinely hedged.
The Group continues its practice of Group is required to adopt not hedging income statement translation exposure.
EU endorsed IFRS and The principal exchange rates affecting the Group were the comply with the Companies Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate and the Sterling to Australian Dollar rate.
12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 US$ opening 1.25 1.44 US$ average 1.33 1.30 US$ closing 1.40 1.25 A$ opening 1.64 1.87 Transfer pricing The Group does not currently have a significant level of cross-border activity but this is likely A$ average 1.71 1.74 to increase as the Group pursues its policy of expanding A$ closing 1.83 1.64 around the globe, however, where it does have such transactions, controls are in place to ensure pricing Treasury policy reflects arms length principles in compliance with the The Group treasury department works within a framework of OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the laws of the policies and procedures approved by the Audit Committee.
The Group does not, therefore, have part of these policies and procedures, there is strict control on a significant exposure to transfer pricing legislation and the use of financial instruments.
Speculative trading in financial has recently submitted the first Country by Country report instruments is not permitted.
The policies are established to under new OECD rules.
manage and control risk in the treasury environment and to Governance The Board has approved this approach.
The align the treasury goals, objectives and philosophy of the Group.
Audit Committee oversees the tax affairs and risks through periodic reviews.
The governance framework is used to Tax risk management manage tax risks, establish controls and monitor their QinetiQs tax strategy is to ensure compliance with all relevant effectiveness.
The Head of Tax is responsible for ensuring tax legislation, wherever we do business, whilst managing our that appropriate policies, processes and systems are in effective tax rates and tax cash flows.
Tax is managed in place and that the tax team has the required skills and alignment with our corporate responsibility strategy in that we support to implement this approach.
strive to be responsible in all our business dealings.
These principles are applied in a consistent and transparent manner in QinetiQs corporate tax contribution QinetiQ is liable to pay tax pursuing the tax strategy and in all dealings with tax authorities in the countries in which it operates, principally the UK, the US, around the world.
Changes in tax legislation in these countries could have an adverse impact on the level of Tax planning QinetiQ manages both effective tax rate tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
A significant ETR and cash tax impacts in line with the Board-endorsed majority of the Groups profit before tax is generated in the UK.
External advice and consultation are sought on This reflects the fact that the majority of the Groups business potential changes in tax legislation in the UK, the US and is undertaken, and employees are based, in the UK.
Total elsewhere as necessary, enabling the Group to plan for and corporation tax payments in the year to 31 March 2018 were mitigate potential changes.
QinetiQ does not make use of 15.7m.
The differential between the taxation expense and the off-shore entities or tax structures to focus taxable profits tax paid in the year relates primarily to the timing of the in jurisdictions that legislate for low tax rates.
recovery of research and development expenditure credits for Relationships with tax authorities QinetiQ is committed to which the cash is recovered in the year following the year of building constructive working relationships with tax account.
There is also an impact of deferred tax movements, authorities based on a policy of full disclosure in order to whereby the income statement bears charges and credits e. g. remove uncertainty in its business transactions and allow in respect of accelerated capital allowances but for which there the authorities to review possible risks.
In the UK, QinetiQ is no corporation tax paid in the year.
Together, these result in seeks to be open and transparent in its engagement with the cash paid being 9.0m greater than the total expense the tax authorities by sharing with HMRC the methodologies charged to the income statement.
adopted in its tax returns.
Accounting standards As a UK-listed company, the Group is required to adopt EU endorsed IFRSs and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The effect of changes to financial reporting standards in the year is disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
138 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
