Other information Alternative Performance Measures We assess our financial performance using a variety of measures.
and IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows, which are presented APMs are not defined by the relevant financial reporting framework in the financial statements on pages 96 to 101. which for the Group is IFRS, but we use them to provide greater insight into the financial performance, financial position and cash A number of our metrics exclude Quilter Life Assurance, principally flows of the Group and the way it is managed.
due to the closure of the institutional life book of business announced in 2017 and run-off of the legacy book as it is a closed-book business.
APMs should be read together with the Groups IFRS consolidated Further details of APMs used by the consolidated Group in our income statement, IFRS consolidated statement of financial position financial review are provided below.
APM Definition Adjusted profit Represents the adjusted profit before tax of the Group.
It adjusts IFRS profit for key adjusting items andexcludes non-core operations, as detailed in note 7 a in the financial statements.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, we believe that adjusted profit is an appropriate basis bywhich to assess the Groups underlying operating results and it enhances comparability and understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
Please refer to page 29 for a detailed reconciliation of adjusted profit to IFRS.
Revenue margin bps Represents net management fees, divided by average AuMA.
Management use this APM as it represents the Groups ability to earn revenue from AuMA.
Operating margin Represents adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations divided by total fee revenue including life tax contributions and adviser fees.
Operating margin excludes financing costs.
Management use this APM as this is an efficiency measure that reflects the percentage of net revenues that become adjusted profit.
Gross sales Gross sales are the gross client cash inflows received from customers during the period and represent our ability to increase AuMA and revenue.
Net client cash flows NCCF The difference between money received from and returned to customers during the relevant period forthe Group or for the business indicated.
This measure is considered to be a lead indicator of reported net revenue.
Integrated flows Total NCCF, before intra-Group eliminations that have flowed through two or more segments within theGroup.
It is considered to be a lead indicator of revenue generation driven by our integrated business model.
Assets under management and Represents the total market value of all financial assets managed and administered on behalf administration AuMA ofcustomers and includes shareholder assets.
Average AuMA Represents the average total market value of all financial assets managed and administrated on behalf of customers.
Average AuMA is calculated using a 7-point average half year and 13-point average full year of monthly closing AuMA.
Net management fees Consists of revenue generated from AuMA, fixed fee revenues including charges for life tax contributions, less trail commissions payable.
Please refer to page 26 for more information on financial performance.
Other revenue Represents revenue not directly linked to AuMA e. g. encashment charges, closed book unit-linked policies, non-linked Protect policies, adviser initial fees and adviser fees linked to AuMA in Quilter Financial Planning recurring fees.
Cash generation This presents a shareholder view of underlying cash earnings.
The IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows includes policyholder cash flows, and does not exclude adjustments for non-operating items.
Cash generated from operations is calculated by removing non-cash items from adjusted profit.
Cash generated from operations is stated after deducting an allowance for cash required to support the capital requirements of the business generated from normal operations.
The capital requirements of the business are assessed on each companys solo regulatory solvency basis.
204 Quilter Annual Report 2018 APM Definition Asset retention The asset retention rate measures our ability to retain assets from delivering good customer outcomes and investment performance.
Asset retention reflects the outflows of the assets under management during the period as a percentage of opening assets under management.
Asset retention is calculated as:1 gross outflow divided by opening assets under management.
Productivity Productivity is a measure of the value created by NCCF from our advice business, and an indicator of thesuccess of our integrated business model.
Restricted Financial Productivity is calculated as average integrated flow per Restricted Financial Planner.
NCCF opening AuMA This measure is calculated as total NCCF as described above divided by opening AuMA presented as excludingQuilter Life Assurance apercentage.
Quilter Life Assurance is excluded from this metric principally due to the closure of the institutional life book of business announced in 2017 and run-off of the legacy book as it is a closed-book business.
Return on Equity RoE This calculates how many pounds of profit the Group generates with each pound of shareholders equity.
This measure is calculated as adjusted profit after tax divided by average equity after adjusting equity for the acquisition of Skandia UK from Old Mutual plc as part of Managed Separation and equity allocated to the discontinued operations.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share Represents the adjusted profit earnings per share.
Calculated as adjusted profit divided by the weighted average number of shares.
Other information | Alternative Performance Measures Quilter Annual Report 2018 205
