Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2018 General Information Quilter plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its subsidiary undertakings collectively, the Group offers investment and wealth management services, life assurance and long-term savings, and financial advice through its subsidiaries and associates primarily in the UK with a presence in a number of cross-border markets.
The address of the registered office is Millennium Bridge House, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4AJ.
The Company was, until 25 June 2018, a wholly owned subsidiary of Old Mutual plc, a FTSE 100 listed group.
The Company formed part oftheOld Mutual Wealth division of Old Mutual plc, for which it acted as a holding company and delivered strategic and governance oversight.
On25June 2018, Quilter plc was listed on the London and the Johannesburg Stock Exchanges and is no longer part of the OldMutual plc group.
1: Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Quilter plc for the year ended 31 December 2018 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting under IFRS.
Pursuant to section 435 of the Companies Act, the comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 are not the Groups statutory accounts for that financial year.
Those accounts were separate financial statements of the Company and have been reported on by the Companys auditor and delivered to the registrar of companies.
The report of the auditor was i unqualified, ii did not include a reference to any matters to which the auditor drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their report, and iii did not contain a statement under section 498 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The comparative figures for the financial year 31 December 2017 are the same as those reported in the Groups Listing Prospectus dated 20 April 2018, which is available on the Groups website.
This is the first set of the Groups annual financial statements in which IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers have been applied.
Changes in significant accounting policies to reflect these new IFRSs are explained in note 4.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, and are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
The separate financial statements of the Company are on pages 188 to 195.
The Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with these accounting policies, other than for investments in subsidiary undertakings, which are stated at cost less impairments in accordance with IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.
Going concern The Directors have considered the resilience of the Group, taking into account its current financial position, the principal risks facing the business and the effectiveness of the mitigating strategies which are or will be applied.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group is wellplaced to manage its business risks in the context of the current economic outlook and have sufficient financial resources to continue in business for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities, including investment funds, controlled by the Group.
More information on how the Group assesses whether it has control is provided in accounting policy 4 a.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date the Group obtains control and are excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses control.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with Group policies.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Liquidity analysis of the statement of financial position The Groups statement of financial position is in order of liquidity as is permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
For each asset andliability line item, those amounts, expected to be recovered or settled after more than 12 months after the reporting date are disclosed separately in the notes to the financial statements.
Acquisitions and disposals The following acquisitions and disposals have taken place and therefore their financial impacts have been accounted for in the relevant reporting period further details are included in note 5.
102 Quilter Annual Report 2018 1: Basis of preparation continued Acquisitions completed in 2018: Skandia UK Limited acquired from Old Mutual plc on 31 January 2018 this included 566 million of intercompany indebtedness which wasreplaced with equity in the form of share capital and a merger reserve: further details are included in note 27 14 adviser businesses acquired during the year to form part of Quilter Private Client Advisers QPCA Disposals completed in 2018: Old Mutual Wealth Single Strategy Asset Management business sale completed on 29 June 2018 Acquisitions completed in 2017: Attivo Investment Management Limited acquired on 29 March 2017 Caerus Capital Group Limited acquired on 1 June 2017 Commsale 2000 Limited acquired from Old Mutual plc on 29 September 2017 Global Edge Technologies Pty Limited acquired from Old Mutual plc on 30 November 2017 Eight adviser businesses acquired during the year to form part of QPCA Disposals completed in 2017: Old Mutual Wealth Italy S. p. A sale completed on 9 January 2017 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements are those that involve the most complex or subjective assessments and assumptions.
Management uses its knowledge of current facts and circumstances and applies estimation and assumption setting techniques that are aligned with relevant actuarial and accounting guidance to make predictions about future actions and events.
Actual results may differ significantly from those estimates.
The Group Audit Committee reviews the reasonableness of judgements and estimates applied and the appropriateness of significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements.
The areas where judgements and estimates have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements are summarised below: Area Critical accounting judgements Note Group accounting The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions and disposals during the year including those as part of 4 a including the Managed Separation and the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business.
Other than for common consolidation of control transactions, the Group uses the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations where investment funds thecost is measured as the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets acquired, liabilities incurred, and equity instruments issued for control of the acquirer.
Judgement is applied in determining the fair value of the consideration and net assets acquired and also the date at which the Group obtains or cedes control.
In addition, theGroups interest in investment funds can fluctuate according to the Groups participation in them as clients underlying investment choices change.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds are classified as a liability rather than a non-controlling interest as they meet the liability classification requirement set out inIAS 32.
Insurance contracts The Group is required to apply judgement in assessing the level of insurance risk transferred to the Group in 29 classification determining whether a contract should be classified and accounted for as an insurance or investment contract.
The majority of the contracts written by the Groupdonot meet the definition of an insurance contract as they donottransfer significant insurance risk and as such are accounted for as an investment contract.
Provisions In assessing whether a provision should be recognised, the Group evaluates the likelihood of a constructive 30 recognition orlegal obligation to settle an event that took place in thepast and whether a reliable estimate can be made.
Significant provisions have been made in respect of the voluntary client remediation provision and the restructuring provision in respect of the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business.
Deferred tax The timing and recognition of any deferred tax assets have been impacted as the Group has become standalone 31 recognition under Managed Separation.
Due to ambiguities in tax law and the complex nature of the separation process, thetax treatment of specific potential tax assets are being discussed with the relevant tax authorities.
Where management believe there is a significant risk that the tax authorities may take a different view no asset has been recognised.
Management expects discussions with the tax authorities on Managed Separation transactions to be concluded during 2019.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 103 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 1: Basis of preparation continued Area Critical accounting estimates Note Insurance contracts Measurement involves significant use of assumptions including mortality, morbidity, persistency, expense 29 measurement valuation and interest rates.
Provisions The amount of provision is calculated based on the Groups estimation of the expenditure required to settle the 30 measurement obligation at the statement of financial position date.
The key assumptions in relation to the voluntary customer remediation provisionhave included the investment return used, the point at which customers areremediated and the timing of remediation.
The provision includes estimates ofthecost of future claims and programme remediation costs.
Deferred tax The estimation of future taxable profits is performed as part of the annual business planning process, and 31 measurement isbased on estimated levels of assets under management, which are subject to a large number of factors including worldwide stock market movements, related movements in foreign exchange rates and net client cashflow, together with estimates of expenses and other charges.
Goodwill and The valuation of goodwill and intangible assets that are recognised as the result ofabusiness combination 16 intangibleassets involves the use of valuation models.
These have arisen principally on the acquisition of the Quilter Cheviot business, Intrinsic and on various adviser business acquisitions.
In relation to goodwill impairment, the determination ofa cash generating units CGUs recoverable value is based on the discounted value of theexpected future profits of each business.
Significant estimates include forecast cash flows, new business growth and discount rates.
Valuation Where quoted market prices are not available, valuation techniques are used tomeasure financial investments.
22 of investments When valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs they are subject to estimation uncertainty andare categorised aslevel 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Matching liabilities are similarly categorised aslevel3.
2: New standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations adopted by the Group The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers for the first time in 2018.
Although significant standards, they did not have a material impact on the Group.
The majority of the Groups financial assets and liabilities continue to be measured at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL after the implementation of IFRS 9.
In relation to IFRS 15 the Group was already largely compliant in the way it recognises fee and commission income.
The impact of adopting these two new standards is outlined in note 4 r : Changes in significant accounting policies.
Other standards: In addition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, the following amendments to the accounting standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the EU, have been adopted by the Group from 1 January 2018 with no material impact on the Groups consolidated results, financial position or disclosures: Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions: Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property: Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 Annual improvements to IFRSs 20142016 cycle: and IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration.
3: Future standards, amendments to standards, andinterpretations not early-adopted in these financialstatements Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existingstandards have been published by the IASB that are mandatory for the Groups annual accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2019.
The Group has not early-adopted these standards, amendments and interpretations.
The new standards that will have asignificant impact on the Group are summarised below: IFRS 16 Leases The IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases in January 2016.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, i. e. the customer lessee and the supplier lessor.
IFRS 16 replaces the previous leases standard, IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations and will be effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
104 Quilter Annual Report 2018 3: Future standards, amendments to standards, andinterpretations not early-adopted in these  Under IFRS 16 and at inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease.
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
To assess where a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether: the contract involves the use of an identified asset this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset.
If the supplier has a substantive substitution right, then the asset isnot identified: the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use: and the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.
This is deemed to be when it has the decision making rights that are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset is used.
In rare cases where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if either: it has the right to operate the asset: or it designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.
This policy is applied to contracts entered into, or changed, on or after 1 January 2019.
For lessees, IFRS 16 will result in almost all leases being recognised in the statement of financial position as IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Applying that model, a lessee is required to recognise: assets the right to use the leased item and liabilities the obligation to pay lease rentals : and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
At transition, lease liabilities will be measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at the Groups incremental borrowing rate as at 1 January 2019.
Right-of-use assets will be measured at their carrying amount as if IFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date, discounted using the lessees incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application the Group will apply this approach for all of its property leases.
On transition to IFRS 16, the Group estimates that it will recognise an additional 74 million of right-of-use assets and 83 million of lease liabilities, recognising a reduction in opening retained earnings at 1 January 2019 of 9 million, with no impact to the income statement.
Insubsequent periods, the Group will recognise a depreciation charge on right-of-use assets and finance interest charges on lease liabilities in the income statement and, over the term of lease contracts, expect a broadly neutral impact to the income statement as the aggregate depreciation charges and finance interest charges replace office lease rental payments.
When measuring the lease liabilities, the Group discounts the lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2019.
The rate applied is dependent on the duration of the lease contract and will range from 1.7% to 3.7%.
The Group will use the following practical expedients when applying IFRS 16 to leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS17: apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics: apply the exemption not to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases for low value items IASB basis of conclusion is that low value items should be the GBP equivalent of less than USD $5,000 or short term leases less than 12 months : and use hindsight when determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.
Accounting for lessors will not change significantly, as IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
IFRS 17 Insurance contracts The IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts in May 2017.
When IFRS 17 is endorsed by the EU, it will replace its interim predecessor, IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 17 is a comprehensive standard which provides a single accounting model for all insurance contracts.
IFRS 17 will replace a wide range of different accounting practices previously permitted, improving transparency and enabling investors and regulators to understand and compare the financial position and performance of an insurer, irrespective of where they are based geographically.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 105 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 3: Future standards, amendments to standards, andinterpretations not early-adopted in these  The measurement model The use of current estimates at each reporting date and an explicit risk adjustment to measure obligations created by insurance contracts, provides up to date information about cash flows and associated risk and timing.
Day one profits are deferred and recognised in the income statement through the release of the contractual service margin CSM, which has the effect of recognising revenue as services are provided.
This is consistent with the treatment in IFRS 15.
Presentation and disclosure Insurers financial statements will look different under IFRS 17.
Insurers will be required to provide information about sources of profit orlosses from insurance and investment related services, comprising insurance revenue and insurance service expenses underwriting activity, as well as finance income or expense investing activity.
New performance metrics and KPIs will be required to explain business results to the investment community.
Disclosure requirements focus on amounts recognised in the financial statements, significant judgements and changes in those judgements, as well as information about the nature and extent of risks that arise from insurance contracts.
Effective date The IASB has recently announced that it has tentatively decided to defer the effective date of IFRS 17 by 1 year to 1 January 2022, with early adoption available.
The standard is yet to be endorsed by the EU.
Management is currently assessing the impact of this standard on the Group and is establishing a multi-functional project team involving Finance, Actuarial, Risk and IT.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments The IASB issued IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments in June 2017.
This interpretation sets out how to determine taxable profits losses, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates collectively referred to as accounting tax position where there isuncertainty over treatment.
The Group is concluding on the impact of the adoption of this Interpretation.
All tax provisions for the Group are currently calculated consistent with the requirements of IAS 12 Income taxes.
Effective date IFRIC 23 is effective for the Group for the accounting period beginning on 1 January 2019.
4: Significant accounting policies The Groups significant accounting policies are described below.
Any changes to the Groups significant accounting policies as a result ofchanges in accounting standards during the year are detailed in note 4 r. 4 a : Group accounting Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are those entities investees controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has allof the following three elements of control: power over the investee: exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
For operating entities this usually arises with a shareholding in the entity of 50% or more.
The Group also consolidates certain of its interests in open-ended investment companies OEICs, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles collectively investment funds.
Where, as is often the case with investment funds, voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the investee, other factors are considered in the control assessment.
These are described in more detail below.
The Group continually assesses any changes to facts and circumstances to determine, in the context of the three elements of control listed above, whether it still controls investees and is required to consolidate them.
Investment funds The Group invests in a wide range of investment funds such as OEICs and unit trusts generally in respect of its unit-linked investment contracts where investments are made to match clients investment choices.
For some of these funds it also acts as fund manager.
These funds invest predominantly in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents.
The Group holds interests in these investment funds mainly through the receipt of fund management fees, in the case where the Group acts as fund manager, which provide a variable return based on the value of the funds under management and other criteria, and in the case of third party funds where fund performance has an impact on fund-based fees within unit-linked investment contracts and other similar client investment products.
Where the Group acts as fund manager it may also hold investments in the underlying funds, through acquiring units or shares.
Where these investments are held in unit-linked funds, the Group hasasecondary exposure to variable returns through the management fees that it deducts from unit-linked policyholders account balances.
The Groups percentage ownership can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups participation in them as clients underlying investment choices change.
106 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 a : Group accounting continued When assessing control of investment funds, the Group considers the purpose and design of the fund, scope of its decision making authority, including its ability to direct relevant activities and to govern the operations of a fund so as to obtain variable returns from that fund and its ability to use its power to affect these returns, both from the perspective of an investor and an asset manager.
In addition, the Group assesses rights held by other parties including substantive removal kick-out rights that may affect the Groups ability to direct relevant activities.
On consolidation, the interests of parties other than the Group are assessed to determine whether they should be classified as liabilities or as non-controlling interests NCIs on the statement of financial position.
Interests classified as a liability are described as Third-party interests in consolidated funds.
Such interests are not recorded as NCIs as they meet the liability classification requirement set out in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
These liabilities are regarded as current, as they are repayable on demand, although it is not expected that they will besettled in a short time period.
Business combinations The Group is required to use the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
Business combinations are accounted for at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
The cost of a business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts.
Where provisional amounts are reported these are adjusted during the measurement period which extends up to a maximum of 12 months from the acquisition date.
Additional assets or liabilities may also be recognised during this period, to reflect any new information obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the date of acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised on that date.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The difference between the proceeds from the disposal of a subsidiary undertaking and its carrying amount as at the date of disposal, including the cumulative amount of any related exchange differences that are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve equity, isrecognised in the consolidated income statement as the gain or loss on disposal of the subsidiary undertaking.
Common control combinations Merger accounting is used by the Group for common control combinations, which are transactions between entities that are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties.
This method treats the merged entities as if they had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Merger accounting principles for these combinations result in the recognition of a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the difference between the nominal value of any new shares issued by the parent company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys Net Asset Value NAV.
Such transactions attract merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
4 b : Fair value measurement The Group uses fair value to measure the majority of its assets and liabilities.
Fair value is a market-based measure and is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
For a financial instrument, the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition is normally the transaction price, which represents the fair value of the consideration given or received.
Where observable market prices in an active market, such as bid or offer ask prices are unavailable, fair value is measured using valuation techniques based on the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid or an offer price, the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value is used as the basis of the fair value measurement.
The quality of the fair value measurement for financial instruments is disclosed by way of the fair value hierarchy, whereby level 1 represents a quoted market price for identical financial assets and liabilities, level 2 financial assets and liabilities are valued using inputs other than quoted prices in active markets included in level 1, either directly or indirectly and level 3 whereby financial assets and liabilities are valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Classifying financial instruments into the three levels outlined above provides an indication about the reliability of inputs used in determining fair value.
More information is provided in note 22.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 107 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 c : Product classification The Groups life assurance contracts are categorised as either insurance contracts or investment contracts, in accordance with the classification criteria set out in the paragraphs below.
Insurance contracts The Groups insurance contracts include traditional life and health insurance contracts including for the latter standalone critical illness andlong term care policies, as well as the unbundled insurance component of unit-linked contracts.
Life assurance contracts are categorised as insurance contracts at the inception of the contract only if the contract transfers significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is significant if, andonly if, an insured event could cause the Group to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
It is possible toreclassify contracts as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
IFRS accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies was grandfathered at the date of transition to IFRS and determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice on Accounting for Insurance Business issued by the Association of British Insurers and subsequently withdrawn from 1 January 2015, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves and margins in assumptions.
Investment contracts Investment contracts do not meet the definition of an insurance contract as they do not transfer significant insurance risk from the policyholder to the insurer.
Unit-linked investment contracts are separated into two components being an investment management services component and a financial liability.
The financial liability component is mandatorily at FVTPL as it is managed on a fair value basis, and its value is directly linked to the market value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
The Group does not share in the explicit returns of the assets held bythe policyholder, apart from secondary exposure to future annual management fees that the Group expects to receive over the life of the policy.
Hybrid Insurance and investment contracts unbundling Generally, life and pensions contracts allow for a single classification at product class level.
For those contracts containing both an insurance component and an investment component, the Group has elected to unbundle these contracts and account for each component separately.
This approach has been applied to a number of the Groups unit-linked assurance business contract types where a significant component of insurance risk exists.
4 d : Fee income and other income from service activities Fee income and other income from service activities represents the fair value of services provided, net of value-added tax and consists predominantly of fees charged to clients for plan and policy administration, investment management, surrenders and other contract services in relation to the Groups unit-linked business.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
Fee income is recognised as revenue as investment management services are provided to policyholders.
Where fees are received upfront, either at inception or over an initial period for services not yet provided, the income is deferred and recognised as a deferred revenue liability on the statement of financial position and released to the income statement as services are provided over the lifetime of the contract.
Deferred fee income has been renamed to contract liabilities in 2018 following theadoption of IFRS 15.
In addition, this also includes advice income from Quilter Financial Planning.
4 e : Investment return Investment return comprises two elements: investment income: and realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments held at FVTPL.
Investment income Investment income includes dividends on equity securities which are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date and interest income which is recognised using the effective interest rate method which allocates interest and other finance costs at a constant rate over the expected life of the financial instrument.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on disposal or transfer and represents the difference between the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised cost.
Unrealised gains or losses, arising on investments which have not been disposed or transferred, represent the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end orpurchase value if this occurs during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains or losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
Gains and losses resulting from changes in both market value and foreign exchange on investments classified at FVTPL are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they occur.
108 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 f : Premiums Premiums receivable under insurance contracts are shown in the income statement gross of commission and exclude sales-based taxes andlevies.
For regular and recurring premium contracts, receivables are recognised when payments are due.
Premiums in respect of otherinsurance contracts are recognised in the income statement when receivable, apart from premiums received in respect of unit-linked insurance contracts see below.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
Premiums received in respect of unit-linked insurance contracts are recognised when the corresponding liability to the policyholder isestablished.
For single premium business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
4 g : Deferred acquisition costs and Contract costs Investment contracts Incremental costs, including fee and commission expenses, that are directly attributable to securing either unit-linked investment contracts or other asset management services are deferred and recognised as a deferred acquisition cost DAC asset if they can be identified separately and measured reliably and it is probable that the costs will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs have been renamed to contract costs in 2018 following the adoption of IFRS 15.
Contract costs are linked to the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, they are therefore amortised through the income statement as the related revenue is recognised.
After initial recognition, contract costs are reviewed by category of business and are impaired to the extent that they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
All other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred.
Insurance contracts Incremental costs directly attributable to securing an insurance contract, such as initial commission and the costs of obtaining and processing such business are deferred and a DAC asset recognised, to the extent that they are expected to be recovered out of future margins.
Contract costs and insurance DAC are amortised as an expense on a straight line basis, adjusted for expected persistency, over the expected life of the contract, as the services are provided equal service provision assumed but subject to a restriction whereby it is no longer than the period in which such costs are expected to be recoverable out of future margins.
At the end of each reporting period, contract costs and DAC are reviewed for recoverability, by category of business, against future margins from the related contracts.
They are impaired in the income statement where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
4 h : Investment contract liabilities The majority of the Groups investment contracts are unit-linked contracts.
At inception, investment contract liabilities for unit-linked business are designated as financial liabilities and measured at FVTPL mandatory under IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018 and previously designated at FVTPL under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement see note 4 r for full details of the impact to the Group of transitioning from IAS39 to IFRS 9.
For these contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the total value of units allocated to the policyholders, based on the bid price of the underlying assets in the fund.
The FVTPL classification reflects the fact that the matching investment portfolio, that backs the unit-linked liabilities, is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
Contributions received on investment contracts are treated as policyholder deposits and credited directly to investment contract liabilities onthe statement of financial position, as opposed to being reported as revenue in the consolidated income statement.
This practise is known as deposit accounting.
Withdrawals paid out to policyholders on investment contracts are treated as a reduction to policyholder deposits, reducing the investment contract liabilities on the statement of financial position, as opposed to being recognised as expenses in the consolidated income statement.
4 i : Insurance contract liabilities Claims Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising during the year and include payments for maturities, annuities, surrender, death and disability claims, as well as claims handling costs, incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of claims.
They are recognised as expenses in the income statement.
Maturity and annuity claims are recorded as they fall due for payment.
Death and disability claims and surrenders are accounted for when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Long-term business liabilities The Group calculates its long term business liabilities for the life operation, based on local regulatory requirements and actuarial principles consistent with those applied in the local market.
For UK business this is in accordance with UK regulatory requirements the Modified Statutory Solvency Basis, in place before the introduction of Solvency II, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves and margins in assumptions.
Liabilities are calculated using the gross premium valuation method, which is based on the amount of contractual premiums receivable and includes explicit assumptions for interest and discount rates, as well as for mortality, morbidity, persistency and future expenses.
These assumptions are based on market data, internal experience data and also external data where either no internal experience data exists or where internal data is too sparse to give credible estimates of the true expectation of experience.
Anticipated future trends have been allowed for in deriving mortality and morbidity assumptions.
The liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be paid in the future is determined as the discounted value of the excess of future expected outgoings over future expected income.
Future expected outgoings include claim costs, direct expenses, commissions and reinsurance premiums.
Future expected income includes premiums payable by policyholders and recoveries made from reinsurers.
For anticipated future claims that have been incurred but not yet paid, the Group establishes a provision for outstanding claims.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 109 F Financial statemen inancial statements ts Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 i : Insurance contract liabilities continued The method used to determine liabilities for long-term life business makes allowance for the level of risk and uncertainty inherent in the business by the use of margins for caution within the assumptions used to project future income and outgoings.
The portion of premiums received that relates to unexpired risks as at the reporting period end is reported within the long term insurance liabilities.
The change ininsurance contract liabilities, comprising the full movement in the corresponding liabilities during the period, is recognised in the incomestatement.
Liability adequacy test At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether the recognised insurance contract liabilities are adequate in light of current estimates offuture cash flows.
This liability adequacy test is performed by comparing the carrying value of the insurance contract liabilities and the discounted projections of future cash flows.
If the carrying value is less than the future expected cash flows, the deficiency is initially recognised by writing down the DAC asset.
The recoverability of the DAC asset is tested against present value of in-force PVIF business, determined on abest estimate basis, with any deficit written off the DAC asset immediately.
Any required write down in excess of the value of the DAC asset isrecognised in the income statement with a corresponding additional provision in the statement of financial position.
4 j : Reinsurance Long-term insurance business The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its claims costs.
Ceded reinsurance contracts include arrangements where regular risk premiums are paid by the Group to the reinsurer and an agreed share of claims are paid by the reinsurer tothe Group.
These arrangements are in respect of underlying policies that are classified as insurance contracts.
Accordingly, contracts with reinsurers are assessed to establish whether they contain significant insurance risk to justify such a classification.
Only rights under contracts that give rise to a transfer of significant insurance risk are accounted for as long term insurance business reinsurance assets.
Reinsurance premiums for ceded reinsurance are recognised as an expense on a basis that is consistent with the recognition basis for thepremiums on the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance recoveries are recognised in the income statement in the same period astherelated claim.
Reinsurance recoveries due from reinsurers and reinsurance premiums due to reinsurers under reinsurance contracts that are contractually due at the reporting date are separately recognised in other receivables and other payables respectively unless a right of offset exists, in which case the net amount is reported on the consolidated statement of financial position.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses arising from ceded reinsurance contracts are presented separately from the related assets, liabilities, income and expenses from the underlying insurance contracts because the reinsurance arrangements do not relieve the Group from its direct obligations to its policyholders.
The value of the benefits that the Group is entitled to under the ceded reinsurance arrangements are reported as reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities in the statement of financial position.
This is calculated as the difference between the insurance contract liability assuming no reinsurance arrangement exists the gross basis and the liability with explicit allowance for all cash flows relating to the reinsurance arrangement the net basis.
Insurance contract liabilities are calculated quarterly on the gross and net bases taking into account all relevant experience effects.
The reinsurers share of insurance provisions is updated consistently with these calculations.
Any resulting movement in the reinsurers share of insurance provisions is recognised in the income statement.
Reinsurance assets are assessed for impairment at each reporting date.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is objective evidence, as aresult of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Group may not recover all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract and that the event has an impact that can be measured reliably in respect of amounts expected to be received from the reinsurer.
Thereinsurers share of policyholder liabilities is updated for any impairment.
Any resulting movement in the reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
Investment contracts Policyholder investments recognised by the Group that are fully managed by a third party reinsurer are shown on the statement of financial position within reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities, with the corresponding liability to the policyholder included within liabilities for linked investment contracts.
4 k : Financial instruments other than derivatives As of 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and categorises its financial instruments as described in detail below.
Prior to this, the Group applied the previous accounting policy in line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
As detailed in note 4 r this change in accounting standard has mainly resulted in new classifications, all of which are shown in note 4 r under both IFRS 9 and IAS 39.
Financial instruments cover a wide range of financial assets, including financial investments, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents and certain financial liabilities, including investment contract liabilities, trade payables, and borrowings.
Derivatives, which are also financial instruments, are covered by accounting policy 4 l. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups statement of financial position when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to receive cash flows have expired or been forfeited by the Group.
A financial liability is derecognised when the liability is extinguished.
1 110 10 Qui Quil lt te er r A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 18 8 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 k : Financial instruments other than derivatives continued The Group assesses the objective of a business model in which an asset is held at a portfolio level because this best represents the way the business is managed and information is reported to management.
The assessment considers the stated portfolio policies and objectives.
TheGroup determines its strategy in holding the financial asset, particularly considering whether the Group earns contractual interest revenue, for example to match the duration of financial assets to the duration of liabilities that are funding those assets or to realise cash flowsthrough the sale of the assets.
The frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods may be reviewed, along with the reasons forsuch sales and expectations about future sales activity.
These factors enable management to determine which financial assets should bemeasured at fair value through the profit or loss FVTPL.
Initial measurement A financial asset unless it is a trade receivable without a significant financing component that is initially measured at the transaction price isinitially measured at fair value plus, for an item not at FVTPL, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
Subsequent measurement The classification of financial assets depends on: i the purpose for which they were acquired: ii the business model in which a financial assetis managed: and iii its contractual cash flow characteristics.
The standard has four categories, of which two are applicable within Quilter:FVTPL and amortised cost.
This classification determines the subsequent measurement basis.
The following accounting policies applyto the subsequent measurement of financial assets.
Measurement basis Accounting policies Financial assets at FVTPL These financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Net gains and losses, including interest and dividend income, are recognised in profit or loss.
Amortised cost These financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Theamortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss.
Any gain or loss on fide-recognition is recognised in profit or loss.
Amortised cost A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following conditions and is not measured at FVTPL: the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows: and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI on the principal amount outstanding on specified dates.
For the purposes of this assessment, principal is defined as the fair value of the financial asset on initial recognition.
Interest is defined as consideration of the time value of money and for the credit risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular period oftime and for other basic lending risks and costs e. g. liquidity risk and administrative costs, as well as profit margin.
Financial investments All other financial assets that are not measured at amortised cost are classified and measured at FVTPL.
This includes any derivative financial assets the majority of which are as a result of the consolidated of funds, as described in note 4 a.
In addition, on initial recognition, the Group may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised cost, at FVTPL, if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise.
The Groups interests in pooled investment funds, equity securities and debt securities are mandatorily at FVTPL, as they are part of groups of financial assets which are managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
These investments are recognised at fair value initially and subsequently, with changes in fair value recognised in investment return in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value of quoted financial investments, which represents the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on the bid value within the bid-ask spread which the Group considers to be the most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial investment is notactive, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow or option pricing models.
The Group recognises purchases and sales of financial investments on trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase orsellthe assets.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 111 111 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 k : Financial instruments other than derivatives continued Loans and advances Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers or policyholders.
Policyholder loans are interest free and are mandatorily at FVTPL since they are taken from the policyholders unit-linked account and thereby matched tounderlying unit-linked liabilities held at FVTPL, which are unaffected by the transaction.
Other loans and advances are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
These assets are subject to the impairment requirements outlined below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits, money market collective investment funds and other short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents held within money market collective investment funds are classified as FVTPL.
All other cash and cash equivalents are classified as amortised cost which means they are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method and are subject to the impairment requirements outlined below.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, other than money market collective investment funds which are measured at fair value, approximates to their fair value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
At inception, investment contract liabilities for unit-linked business are designated as financial liabilities and measured at FVTPL.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability is equal to the total value of units allocated to the policyholders, based on the bid price of the underlying assets in the fund.
The FVTPL classification reflects the fact that the matching investment portfolio, that mirrors the unit-linked liabilities, is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
Other financial liabilities, including the Groups borrowings and trade payables, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables and receivables Trade payables and receivables are classified at amortised cost.
Due to their short term nature, their carrying amount is considered to be the same as their fair value.
Investments in subsidiaries Parent Company investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Subsequently, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
An investment in a subsidiary is deemed to be impaired when its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, and there is evidence to suggest that the impairment occurred subsequent to the initial recognition of the asset in the financial statements.
All impairments are recognised in the Parent Company income statement as they occur.
Impairment of financial assets IFRS 9 introduces an expected loss accounting model for credit losses that differs significantly from the incurred loss model under IAS 39 andresults in earlier recognition of credit losses.
The new impairment model applies to financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets, but not to investments in equity instruments.
Financial assets at amortised cost include trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents excluding money market collective investment funds which are measured at fair value and corporate debt securities.
Under IFRS 9, credit loss allowances are measured on each reporting date according to a three-stage expected credit loss ECL impairment model: Performing financial assets Stage 1 From initial recognition of a financial asset to the date on which an asset has experienced a significant increase in credit risk relative to its initial recognition, a stage 1 loss allowance is recognised equal to the credit losses expected to result from its default occurring over the earlier of the next 12 months or its maturity date 12-month ECL.
Stage 2 Following a significant increase in credit risk relative to the initial recognition of the financial asset, a stage 2 loss allowance is recognised equal to the credit losses expected from all possible default events over the remaining lifetime of the asset Lifetime ECL.
The assessment of whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk requires considerable judgement, based on the lifetime probability of default PD.
Stage 1 and 2 allowances are held against performing loans: the main difference between stage 1 and stage 2 allowances is the time horizon.
Stage 1 allowances are estimated using the PD with a maximum period of 12 months, while stage 2 allowances are estimated using the PD over the remaining lifetime of the asset.
112 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 k : Financial instruments other than derivatives continued Impaired financial assets Stage 3 When a financial asset is considered to be credit-impaired, the allowance for credit losses ACL continues to represent lifetime expected credit losses.
However, interest income is calculated based on the amortised cost of the asset, net of the loss allowance, rather than its gross carrying amount.
Application of the new impairment model The Group applies IFRS 9s new ECL model to two main types of financial assets that are measured at amortised cost: trade receivables and contract assets, to which the simplified approach prescribed by IFRS 9 is applied.
This approach requires the recognition of a Lifetime ECL allowance on day one and thereafter: and loans at amortised cost, to which the general three-stage model described above is applied, whereby a 12-month ECL is recognised initiallyand the balance is monitored for significant increases in credit risk which triggers the recognition of a Lifetime ECL allowance.
ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
ECLs for financial assets that are not credit-impaired at the reporting date are measured as the present value of all cash shortfalls i. e. the difference between the cash flows due in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive.
ECLs for financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date are measured as the difference between the gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
ECLs are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset.
The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over which theGroup is exposed to credit risk.
The measurement of ECLs considers information about past events and current conditions, as well as supportable information about future events and economic conditions.
The Group has implemented its impairment methodology for estimating the ACL, taking into account forward-looking information in determining the appropriate level of allowance.
In addition it has identified indicators and set up procedures formonitoring for significant increases in credit risk.
Credit-impaired financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial assets carried at amortised cost are credit-impaired.
A financial asset is creditimpaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes events such as significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer, a breach ofcontract such as a default or past due event or the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group on terms that the Group would not otherwise consider.
The assumption that the credit risk for balances over 30 days significantly increases has been rebutted on the basis thatsome balances will exceed 30 days in the normal course of the settlement cycle, and therefore, there is no increase in the credit risk.
Presentation of impairment Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
Write-offs Loans and debt securities are written off either partially or in full when there is no realistic prospect of the amount being recovered.
This is generally the case when the Group concludes that the borrower does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting and has elected to defer the application of hedge accounting requirements in IFRS 9 and will assess them once the IASB has completed its macro-hedging project.
It will disclose information on the impact of adoption in the first set of financial statements in which it has applied the IFRS 9 hedging requirements.
4 l : Derivatives The Group has limited involvement in the use of derivative instruments and does not use them for speculation purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage well-defined foreign exchange risks arising out of the normal course of business in our International operations and the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the currency risk on certain US dollar, Euro and Swedish krona denominated future revenues and accounts receivables.
Management determines the classification of derivatives at initial recognition and classifies derivatives as mandatorily at FVTPL.
All derivatives are carried as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
The only other derivatives recognised in the Groups statement of financial position are as a result of the consolidation of funds described innote 4 a.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 113 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 m : Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group operates two types of pension plans which have been established for eligible employees of the Group: defined contribution schemes where the Group makes contributions to members pension plans but has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid: and defined benefit plans which provide pension payments upon retirement to members as defined by the plan rules.
The Group has funded these liabilities by ring-fencing assets in trustee-administered funds.
Defined contribution pension obligation Under a defined contribution plan, the Groups legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount it agrees to contribute to a pension fund and there is no obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay benefits.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution schemes for current service are expensed in the income statement as staff costs and other employee-related costs when incurred.
Defined benefit pension obligation A defined benefit pension plan typically defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
For these plans, the Groups defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which measures the pension obligation as the present value of estimated future cash outflows.
The discount rate used is determined based on the yields for investment grade corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
Plan assets are measured at their fair value at the reporting date.
The net surplus or deficit of the defined benefit plan is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less thefair value of the plan assets.
An asset is recognised only where there is an unconditional right to future benefits.
The current service cost and any past service costs together with the expected return on plan assets less the unwinding of the discount on theplan liabilities is charged to other expenses in the income statement.
Re-measurements which comprise gains and losses as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, the actual return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling are recognised immediately in OCI in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods.
Administration costs other than the costs of managing plan assets are recognised in the income statement when the service is provided.
When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the portion of the changed benefit related to past service by employees, or the gain or loss on curtailment, is recognised immediately in the income statement when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs.
Employee share-based payments The Group operates a number of share incentive plans for its employees.
These generally involve an award of shares or options in the Group equity-settled share-based payments, but may also take the form of a cash award based on the share price of the Group cash-settled share-based payments.
The Groups incentive plans have conditions attached before the employee becomes entitled to the award.
These can be performance and or service conditions vesting conditions or conditions that are often wholly within the control of the employee, for example where the employee has to provide funding during the vesting period, which is then used to exercise share options non-vesting condition.
Performance conditions may be market-based or non-market based.
Market performance conditions are those related to an entitys equity, such as achieving a specified share price or target based on a comparison of the entitys share price with an index of share prices.
Non-market performance conditions are those related to an entitys profit or revenue targets, an example of which would be Earnings per Share EPS.
Market-based performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of the share or option awards at the measurement date.
The fair value of the share awards or options is not adjusted to take into account non-market performance features.
These are taken into consideration by adjusting the number of equity instruments in the share-based payment measurement and this adjustment is made each period until the equity instruments vest.
114 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 m : Employee benefits continued The fair value of share-based payment awards granted is recognised as an expense in the income statement over the vesting period which accords with the period for which related services are provided by the employee.
A corresponding increase in equity is recognised for equity-settled plans and a corresponding financial liability for cash-settled plans.
For equity-settled plans, the fair value is determined at grant date and not subsequently re-measured.
For cash-settled plans, the fair value is re-measured at each reporting date and the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss for the period and the liability adjusted accordingly.
At each period end the Group reassesses the number of equity instruments expected to vest and recognises any difference between the revised and original estimate in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payments reserve in equity.
At the time the equity instruments vest, the amount recognised in the share-based payments reserve in respect of those equity instruments istransferred to retained earnings.
4 n : Tax Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date and any adjustment to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax Deferred taxes are calculated according to the statement of financial position method, based on temporary differences between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
In certain circumstances, as permitted by accounting guidance, deferred tax balances are not recognised.
In particular, where the liability relates to the initial recognition of goodwill, or transactions that are not a business combination and at the time of their occurrence affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Note 31 b includes further detail of circumstances in which the Group does not recognise temporary differences.
Policyholder tax Certain products are subject to tax on policyholders investment returns.
This policyholder tax is an element of tax expense.
To make the taxexpense more meaningful, tax attributable to policyholder returns and tax attributable to shareholder profits is shown separately.
The tax attributable to policyholder returns is the amount payable in the year plus the movement of amounts expected to be payable in future years.
The remainder of the tax expense is attributed to shareholders as tax attributable to shareholder profits.
4 o : Goodwill and intangible assets The recognition of goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business and represents the premium paid over the fair value of the Groups share ofthe identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets include both purchased intangible assets initially recognised as part of a business combination and internally generated assets, such as software development costs related to amounts recognised for in-house systems development.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 115 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 o : Goodwill and intangible assets continued Goodwill and goodwill impairment Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in subsidiaries is shown as a separate asset, while that on associates, where it arises, is included within the carrying value of those investments.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost at the date when control is achieved the acquisition date and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Goodwill is allocated to one or more cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, where the CGUrepresents the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or group of assets.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least once annually, as a matter of course even if there is no indication of impairment, and whenever an event or change in circumstances occurs which indicates a potential impairment.
For impairment testing, the carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of an operation within a group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated, the goodwill associated with that operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
It is measured based on the relative values ofthe operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised where they are separately identifiable and can be measured reliably.
Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of contractual relationships such as customer relationships and distribution channels.
Such items are capitalised at their fair value, represented by the estimated net present value of the future cash flows from the relevant relationships acquired at the date of acquisition.
Brands and similar items acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at their fair value based on a relief from royalty valuation methodology.
Subsequent to initial recognition acquired intangible assets are measured at cost less amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual value, using a straight-line method over their estimated useful lives as set out below: Distribution channels 10 years Customer relationships 10 years Brand 1520 years The economic lives are determined by considering relevant factors such as usage of the asset, product life cycles, potential obsolescence, competitive position and stability of the industry.
The amortisation period is re-evaluated at the end of each financial year end.
Internally developed software There are a number of factors taken into account when considering whether internally developed software meets the recognition criteria inIAS38 Intangible assets.
Where for example a third party provider retains ownership of the software, this will not meet the control criterion inthe standard i. e. the power to obtain benefits from the asset and the costs will be expensed as incurred.
Where it is capitalised, internally developed software is held at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Such software isrecognised in the statement of financial position if, and only if, it is probable that the relevant future economic benefits attributable to the software will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
Costs incurred in the research phase are expensed, whereas costs incurred in the development phase are capitalised, subject to meeting specific criteria, as set out in the relevant accounting guidance, the main one being that future economic benefits can be identified as a result ofthe development expenditure.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the relevant software, which range between three and five years, depending on the nature and use of the software.
Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
116 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 o : Goodwill and intangible assets continued Impairment testing for intangible assets For intangible assets with finite lives, impairment charges are recognised where evidence of impairment is observed.
If an indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible asset isestimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense in the income statement immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
4 p : Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group isavailable for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
Assets and liabilities held for sale are presented separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Assets and liabilities and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged on a non-current asset while classified as held for sale or while part of a disposal group once it has been classified as held for sale.
The Group classifies as discontinued operations areas of the business which have been disposed of, or are classified as held for sale at the year end and which either represent a separate major line of business or geographical area, or are part of a plan to dispose of one, or are subsidiaries acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
When an asset or disposal group ceases to be classified as held for sale, the individual assets and liabilities cease to be shown separately inthe statement of financial position at the end of the year in which the classification changes.
If the line of business was previously presented as a discontinued operation and subsequently ceases to be classified as held for sale, profit and loss and cash flows of the comparative period are restated to show that line of business as a continuing operation.
Further information can be found in note 5.
4 q : Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more probable than notthat an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can bemade.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted and represent the present value of the expected expenditure.
The Group recognises specific provisions where they arise for the situations outlined below: client compensation and related costs when the Group has decided to compensate clients in the context of providing fair customer outcomes: onerous contracts when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under the contract: corporate restructuring only if the Group has approved a detailed formal plan and raised a valid expectation among those parties directly affected, that the plan will be carried out either by having commenced implementation or by publicly announcing the plans main features.
Such provisions include the direct expenditure arising from the restructuring, such as employee termination payments but not those costs associated with the ongoing activities of the Group: and legal uncertainties and the settlement of other claims.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating costs or losses.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations of the Group of which the timing and amount are subject to significant uncertainty.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position, unless they are assumed by the Group as part of a business combination.
They are however disclosed, unless they are considered to be remote.
If a contingent liability becomes probable and the amount can be reliably measured it is no longer treated as contingent and recognised as a liability.
Contingent assets which are possible benefits to the Group are only disclosed if it is probable that the Group will receive the benefit.
If such abenefit becomes virtually certain, it is no longer considered contingent and is recognised on the consolidated statement of financial position as an asset.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 117 Financial statements Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 r : Changes in significant accounting policies 4 r i : Changes to the Group Accounting accounting policy The Group Accounting policy note 4 a has been updated to include our use of Merger accounting: used by the Group for common control combinations, which are transactions between entities that are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties.
For further information of the impact of this during the current year, see note 27.
4 r ii : Changes to the Financial Instruments accounting policy As outlined in Note 2 above, the Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial instruments as issued by the IASB in July 2014.
The adoption of IFRS 9 during the year has resulted in changes to accounting policies see note 4 k and a small adjustment to opening retained earnings for moving to a forward looking impairment model, based on ECLs.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Transition impacts Assessments have been carried out on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of initial application to determine thebusiness model within which a financial asset is held and to establish the designation and revocation of previous designations of certain financial assets and financial liabilities as measured at FVTPL.
Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been applied retrospectively, except that, in accordance with thetransitional provisions in paragraph 7.2.
15 of IFRS 9, comparative information for prior periods has not been restated.
Accordingly, all comparative period information is presented in accordance with the Groups previous accounting policies.
Differences in the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 are recognised in retained earnings as at 1 January 2018.
Classification and measurement on adoption On adopting IFRS 9 the Group has incurred a small additional impairment allowance, adjusting the Groups opening retained earnings by 0.2million at 1 January 2018.
There has also been a change to classification terminology, outlined below for the Groups main financial instruments: IFRS 9 Current year IAS 39 Prior year Classifications and Financial instrument measurement models Classifications Measurement model Cash and cash equivalents, excluding money market funds Amortised Cost Loans and receivables Amortised Cost Contract assets Trade receivables Loans and advances not unit-linked 1 Debt instruments unit-linked FVTPL mandatory FVTPL designated FVTPL Equity instruments unit-linked Loans and advances unit-linked Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities unit-linked Cash and cash equivalents, money market funds only Debt instruments non-linked FVTPL FVTPL FVTPL designated designated 1 Quilters unit-linked business, where a portfolio of financial assets and liabilities is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with its risk management strategy, is required not elected to be held at FVTPL under IFRS 9.
This is due to the business model being neither i held to collect contractual cash flows nor ii held both to collect contractual cash flows and to sell financial assets.
Impairment on adoption For assets in the scope of the IFRS 9 impairment model, the impact of adopting IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 is as follows: m Opening retained earnings IAS 39 872.0 Increase in provision for trade receivables 0.1 Increase in provision for loans 0.1 Total adjustment to retained earnings for adoption of IFRS 9 0.2 Opening retained earnings IFRS 9 871.8 118 Quilter Annual Report 2018 4: Significant accounting policies continued 4 r : Changes in significant accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers As indicated in Note 2 above, the Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as issued by the IASB in May 2014 using the cumulative effect method.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 has not been restated, i. e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18 Revenue.
The adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any material impact on the Groups existing practices and accounting policies, except for the incorporation of new terminology introduced by the standard.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of goods or services.
Determining the timing of the transfer of control, at a point in time or over time, requires judgement.
IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
The Group performed an assessment to determine the impact of the new standard on the Groups statement of financial position and performance.
It considered the five-step analysis prescribed by the standard, taking into account the different types of contracts it has with itscustomers, the corresponding types of services provided to customers and when these service obligations are satisfied.
In addition, the Group considered the types of fee income generated across all products from the contracts with its customers and when the fee income is recognised see the table below for further information.
The assessment concluded that no changes were required to the measurement and recognition of revenue from customer contracts.
Consequently, the cumulative impact of adoption was nil and as a result no adjustment to the Groups opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 has been recognised.
The table below summarises the types of fee and commission income generated by the Group.
Nature of change in Type of fee Description accounting policy Premium-based fees This relates to non-refundable initial fees taken on receipt of clients investments andrecognised on receipt over the life of the contract, in line with the performance obligation associated with the contract in respect of the administration of theunderlying client records and client benefits, and results in the recognition ofacontract liability on the statement of financial position see note 34 for furtherinformation.
Fund-based fees This is periodic fee income based on the market valuation of the investment contracts.
They are calculated and recognised on a daily basis in line with the provision of investment management services.
IFRS 15 did not have asignificant impact on Fixed fees This is periodic fee income which is fixed in value according to underlying contract the Groups accounting terms and relate to the provision of services and transactional dealing fees.
recognised on provision of the transaction.
Surrender fees Fee income relates to client charges received on the surrender of an investment contract or insurance contract, which is based on the value of the policy and recognised on surrender of the policy.
Other fee and commission income Fees in respect of advice provided to clients.
Typically, fee income is paid by providers of the financial products at the point of sale to the client.
This is when the advice has been provided to the client and the financial advisers performance obligation has been fully delivered.
Accordingly, fee income is recognised at the inception of the financial product sold.
The introduction of IFRS 15 did not result in changes to the Groups significant accounting policies, except to update them for new terminology introduced by the new standard for contract costs previously known as deferred acquisition costs for non-insurance contracts refer to note 4 g for further information, contract assets previously known as accrued income from contracts with customers, and contract liabilities previously known as deferred fee income from contracts with customers.
Financial statements | Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Quilter Annual Report 2018 119 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2018 5: Acquisitions, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale This note provides details of the acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries the Group has made during the period, together with details ofbusinesses held for sale during that same period.
5 a : Business acquisitions completed during the period Business acquisitions completed during year ended 31December 2018 Acquisition of Skandia UK Limited from Old Mutual plc On 31 January 2018, the Group acquired the Skandia UK Limited group of entities from Old Mutual plc which comprises seven Old Mutual plc group entities with a net asset value NAV of 591 million.
The transfer was effected by the issue of a share and with the balance represented by a merger reserve.
No debt was taken on asaresult of this transaction.
The most significant asset within theseentities is a 566 million receivable which corresponds to an equivalent payable within the Groups statement of financial position.
The net effect of this transaction forthe Group is to replace a payabledue to Old Mutual plc with equity.
For further information see note 27.
Acquisition of adviser businesses by Quilter Private Client Advisers QPCA formerly Old Mutual Wealth Private Client Advisers During the year, the Group continued its expansion of the QPCA business, aiming to develop a Quilter plc branded, employed adviser business focused upon servicing upper affluent and high net worth clients, offering a centrally-defined restricted advice proposition focused upon theGroups investment solutions and platform.
In the year the Group completed the acquisition of 14 adviser businesses as part of the expansion of the QPCA business.
The total cash consideration paid was an initial 5.3 million with additional potential deferred consideration of6.4million which is expected to be paid in full discounted to net present value for this and all other acquisitions listed below, dependent upon meeting certain performance targets generally relating to funds under management.
Net tangible assets of 0.2 million were acquired and goodwill of 5.1 million, other intangible assets of 7.4 million and a deferred tax liability of 1.0 million were recognised as a result of the transaction.
The deferred consideration was capitalised in the calculation of goodwill recognised.
Business acquisitions completed during year ended 31December 2017 Caerus Capital Group Limited Caerus On 1 June 2017, the Group, completed the acquisition of 100% oftheshare capital of Caerus, a UK-based adviser network that operatesin asimilar manner to Intrinsic another Group business within the Advice and Wealth Management segment and which has approximately 4billion of funds under advice and 300 advisers.
The total consideration of 22 million includes 15 million cash consideration and up to 3 million that has been deferred for two years and upto 4 million that has been deferred for three years.
The deferred consideration has been included as part of the cost of the acquisition asthere is no continuing employment condition applying to the sellers of the business.
The deferred consideration payable is dependent on turnover targets post acquisition and is potentially reduced by the amount of any relevant claims arising from in-force business existing prior tothe payment dates.
The purchase price has been allocated based on the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition determined in accordance to IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The carrying value of assets and liabilities in Caeruss consolidated statement of financial position on acquisition date approximates the fair value of these items determined by the Group.
Net tangible assets of 1 million were acquired and in addition, the Group recognised identified intangible assets of 14 million and a deferred tax liability of 2 million relating to customer distribution channels.
The value of the intangible assets was determined by applying cash flows to standard industry valuation models.
Goodwill of 9 million was recognised on the acquisition which is attributable to the delivery of cost and revenue synergies that cannot be linked to identifiable intangible assets.
Transaction costs incurred of 1 million relating to the acquisition have been recognised within other expenses in the consolidated income statement, but not included within adjusted profit.
Acquisition of adviser businesses by Quilter Private Client Advisers QPCA During 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of eight adviser businesses as part of the expansion of its QPCA business that was launched in October 2015.
The aggregate estimated consideration payable was 18 million, of which 10 million was cash consideration and up to 8 million in deferred payments.
The amount of deferred consideration is dependent upon meeting certain performance targets, generally relating to the value offunds under management and levels of ongoing fee income.
The deferred consideration has been included as part of the cost of the acquisition.
Total other intangible assets of 13 million and a deferred tax liability of 2 million in respect of customer relationships have been recognised as a result of the acquisitions, together with goodwill of 7 million, 2 million of which has been transferred from intangibles to goodwill following a review of the purchase price allocations in 2018 see note 16 a.
Transaction costs incurred of 1 million relating to the acquisitions have been recognised within other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement, but not included within adjustedprofit.
120 Quilter Annual Report 2018 5: Acquisitions, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued 5 a : Business acquisitions completed during the period continued Attivo Investment Management Limited AIM On 29 March 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% ofthe share capital of AIM, a UK-based investment management business offering a comprehensive investment management service.
The fair value of the total estimated consideration was 8 million, of which 5 million was cash consideration and 3 million was deferred fortwo years.
The deferred consideration is included within the cost of the acquisition because it is dependent on levels of assets under management being maintained, with no requirement for continuing employment applied to the sellers of the business.
The book value of total assets and total net assets of the acquired business were both less than 1 million.
The purchase price has been based on the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition determined in accordance to IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The carrying value of assets and liabilities in AIMs statement of financial position on acquisition date approximates the fair value of these items determined by the Group.
Other intangible assets of 9 million and a deferred tax liability of 2 million, relating to customer relationships, were recognised as a result of the acquisition.
No goodwill was recognised on this transaction.
Transaction costs incurred of 0.5 million relating to the acquisition have been recognised within other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement, but not included within adjusted profit.
Commsale 2000 Limited Commsale On 29 September 2017, the Group acquired Commsale from Old Mutual plc.
Commsale is a UK-based service company that runs the lease for the London Head Office building and is responsible for the payment of rent, rates and service charges relating to the building and recharging the costs to all tenants through a service charge.
This represents a business combination involving entities or businesses under common control because the combining businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties before and after the business combination.
The total consideration was 0.3 million.
The fair value of the identifiable assets at the date of acquisition was 0.5 million, with a gain onpurchase of 0.2 million being recognised, representing assets not valued within the agreed consideration.
Global Edge Technologies Pty Ltd GET On 30 November 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of GET from Old Mutual plc.
GET is a service company incorporated in South Africa, with a branch in the UK that provides IT support for the Groups Platform business services.
The total consideration was 1 million.
The fair value of the identifiable assets at the date of acquisition was 4 million, with a gain on purchase of 3 million being recognised.
The Group determined that the excess of book value over consideration paid was attributable to potential future integration costs which, if incurred, would be expensed in future periods.
As potential future integrating activities do not qualify to be recognised as a liability in the application of the acquisition method of accounting, no such liability was recognised, and the Group recorded the excess as a bargain purchase gain.
5 b : Disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments Year ended 31 December 2018 In December 2017, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its Single Strategy Asset Management business Single Strategy business to a special purpose vehicle ultimately owned by funds managed by TA Associates and certain members of the Single Strategy management team together the Acquirer.
On 29 June 2018, the Group completed the sale for a total consideration of 583 million, comprising cash consideration of 540 million on completion, with an additional 7 million anticipated to be payable thereafter, to be paid primarily in 2019 to 2021 as surplus capital associated with the separation from the Group is released in the business.
The deferred consideration is not subject to performance conditions.
The remaining proceeds of 36 million were received in cash as a pre-completion dividend on 15 June 2018.
Economic ownership of the Single Strategy business passed to the Acquirer effective from 1 January 2018 with all profits and performance fees generated up until 31 December 2017 for the account of Quilter plc.
The results of the Single Strategy business continued to be included as part of the Group up until the date of sale on 29 June 2018.
The Group recognised a post tax profit on disposal of 292 million.
During the year an expense provision of 2 million in relation to the sale of Old Mutual Wealth Italy S. p. A. in the prior year see below for details of this sale was released as it is not expected to be incurred, giving rise to a 2 million increase in the profit on sale.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 121 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 5: Acquisitions, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued 5 b : Disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments continued Year ended 31 December 2017 In August 2016, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell Old Mutual Wealth Italy S. p. A. to Ergo Previdenza S. p. A. Ergo, a member of the Flavia insurance group.
The sale completed on 9 January 2017.
The consideration for the transaction was 221 million 278 million in cash, plus interest to completion recognising a profit on disposal of 80 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Single Strategy business and Old Mutual Wealth Italy adjustment Old Mutual Wealth Italy m m 1 Consideration received 546 221 Less: transaction costs on the sale of Single Strategy 20 4 Plus: release of accrued expenses in relation to OMW Italy S. p. A. disposal 2 Net proceeds from sale 528 217 Carrying value of net assets disposed of 238 137 Profit on sale of operations before tax 290 80 Tax on disposals 4 Profit on sale of operations after tax 294 80 1 Consideration received in respect of the Single Strategy business includes 540 million of cash received together with the discounted deferred consideration of6 million, and excludes the 36 million pre-completion dividend received in June 2018.
5 c : Discontinued operations Income statement For the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the Groups discontinued operations included the Single Strategy business previously part of Old Mutual Global Investors.
Old Mutual Wealth Italy S. p. A. is also included in discontinued operations up to the date its salecompleted on 9 January 2017.
The table below sets out the trading results of the Groups discontinued operations and also any profit on the sale of discontinued operations during the period.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Revenue Fee income and other income from service activities 8 a 136 389 Investment return 8 b 7 Other income 2 3 Total revenue 138 399 Expenses Fee and commission expenses, and other acquisition costs 9 a 31 62 Other operating and administrative expenses 9 b 81 185 Total expenses 112 247 Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries 5 b 290 80 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 316 232 Tax expense attributable to equity holders 2 29 Profit for the period after tax from discontinued operations 314 203 Attributable to: Equity holders of Quilter plc 314 203 Earnings per Ordinary Share on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of Quilter plc Basic from discontinued operations pence 17.1 11.1 Diluted from discontinued operations pence 17.1 11.1 122 Quilter Annual Report 2018 5: Acquisitions, discontinued operations and disposal groups held for sale continued 5 d : Discontinued operations Statement of comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Profit for the period 314 203 Other comprehensive income from discontinued operations: Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement Exchange gains on translation of foreign operations 4 Other comprehensive income for the period 3 Total other comprehensive income from discontinued operations, net of tax 7 Total comprehensive income for the period from discontinued operations 314 210 5 e : Discontinued operations Net cash flows Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Total net cash flows from operating activities 63 22 Total net cash used in investing activities 131 137 Total net cash used in financing activities 45 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 23 115 5 f : Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets and liabilities of operations classified as held for sale at 31 December 2017 relate to the Single Strategy business.
The operation was classified as held for sale from December 2017 and, on 29 June 2018, the Group completed the sale.
The assets and liabilities held for sale are disclosed in the table below.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Assets classified as held for sale Goodwill and intangible assets 16 b 82 Deferred acquisition costs 25 4 Deferred tax assets 31 9 Trade, other receivables and other assets 24 204 Cash and cash equivalents 26 147 Assets of operations classified as held for sale 446 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale Current tax payable 33 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 33 186 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 219 Net assets of operations classified as held for sale 227 Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 123 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 6: Segmental information 6 a : Segmental presentation The Groups operating segments comprise Advice and Wealth Management and Wealth Platforms, which is consistent with how the Group is managed.
For all reporting periods, these businesses have been classified as continuing operations in the IFRS income statement and as core operations in determining the adjusted profit.
Head Office includes certain revenues and central costs that are not allocated to the segments.
For the period ended 31 December 2018, the Group has classified the Single Strategy Asset Management business as discontinued.
For the period ended 31 December 2017, the Group has classified the Italian business as discontinued.
These businesses were sold or held for sale in these periods.
Further detail is included in note 5 b.
There have been no changes to the basis of segment information for the period in these financial statements.
The Groups segmental results are analysed and reported on a basis with the way that management and the Board of Directors of Quilter plc assess performance of the underlying businesses and allocate resources.
Information is presented to the Board on a consolidated basis in pounds sterling the presentation currency and in the functional currency of each business.
Adjusted profit is one of the key measures reported to the Groups management and Board of Directors for their consideration in the allocation of resources to, and the review of, the performance of the segments.
As appropriate to the business line, the Board reviews additional measures to assess the performance of each of the segments.
These typically also include net client cash flows, assets under management and administration, and revenue and operating margins.
Consistent with internal reporting, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated between segments where appropriate and where there is a reasonable basis for doing so.
The Group accounts for inter-segment revenues and transfers as if the transactions were with third parties at current market prices.
The revenues generated in each reported segment are provided in the analysis of profits and losses in note 6 b.
The segmental information inthis note reflects the adjusted and IFRS measures of profit or loss and the assets and liabilities for each operating segment as provided to management and the Board of Directors.
There are no differences between the measurement of the assets and liabilities reflected in the primary statements and that reported for the segments.
The Group is primarily engaged in the following business activities from which it generates revenue: investment and asset management, financial advice revenue from fee income and other income from service activities, and life assurance revenue from premium income.
Investment return includes gains and losses on investment securities and other income includes other fees and miscellaneous income.
The principal lines of business from which each operating segment derives its revenues are as follows: Advice and Wealth Management This segment comprises Quilter Investors, Quilter Cheviot Limited and Quilter Financial Planning, including Quilter Private Client Advisers QPCA.
Quilter Investors is a leading provider of investment solutions in the UK multi-asset market.
It develops and manages investment solutions in the form of funds for Quilter plc and third party clients.
It has several fund ranges which vary in breadth of underlying asset class.
The business has primarily been accumulation-focused, with recent development of decumulation solutions.
Quilter Cheviot Limited provides discretionary investment management in the United Kingdom with bespoke investment portfolios tailored to the individual needs of affluent and high net worth customers, charities, companies and institutions through a network of branches in London and the regions.
Investment management services are also provided by branches in Jersey, Channel Islands and the Republic of Ireland.
Quilter Financial Planning is a restricted and independent financial adviser network including QPCA providing mortgage and financial planning advice and financial solutions for both individuals and businesses through a network of intermediaries.
They operate across all markets, from wealth management and retirement planning advice through to dealing with property wealth and personal and business protection needs.
Wealth Platforms This segment comprises Quilter Wealth Solutions QWS and Quilter Life Assurance QLA, and Quilter International cross-border businesses.
QWS and QLA provide advice based predominantly unit-linked wealth management products and services in the UK, which serves a largely affluent customer base through advised multi-channel distribution.
The QLA business is predominantly a closed book, made up of legacy products.
Protection and institutional pension products are also part of the business.
Quilter International is a cross-border business, focusing on high net worth and affluent local customers and expatriates in Asia, the Middle East, Europe and Latin America.
In addition to the two operating segments, Head Office comprises the investment return on centrally held assets, central function expenses, such as Group treasury and finance functions, along with central core structural borrowings and certain tax balances in the segmental statement of financial position.
124 Quilter Annual Report 2018 6: Segmental information continued 6 b i : Adjusted profit statement segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2018 Adjusted profit Continuing operations Reconciliation to IFRS Operating segments Advice and Adjusting Wealth Wealth Head Adjusted Consolidation items IFRS Income 1 Management Platforms Office profit adjustments Note 7 a Statement Note m m m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 148 148 148 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 88 88 88 Net earned premiums 60 60 60 Fee income and other income from serviceactivities 8 a 547 507 1,054 8 1,046 Investment return 9 3,248 3 3,236 246 3,482 Other income 2 101 6 109 74 35 Segmental revenue 558 2,580 9 2,013 328 2,341 Expenses Claims and benefits paid 87 87 87 Reinsurance recoveries 60 60 60 Net insurance claims and benefits incurred 27 27 27 Change in reinsurance assets and liabilities 103 103 103 Change in insurance contract liabilities 109 109 109 Change in investment contract liabilities 3,236 3,236 3,236 Fee and commission expenses, and otheracquisition costs 163 170 333 104 437 Change in third-party interest in consolidatedfunds 369 369 Other operating and administrative expenses 290 347 40 677 63 158 772 Finance costs 10 3 1 4 13 17 Segmental expenses 456 2,685 40 2,189 328 171 2,346 Adjusted profit loss before all tax 102 105 31 176 171 5 Tax attributable to policyholders funds 57 57 101 158 Adjusted profit loss before tax attributable to equity holders 102 162 31 233 70 163 Reconciliation to IFRS: Adjusted for non-operating items: 7 a Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 49 1 50 Business transformation costs 19 58 7 84 Managed Separation costs 1 23 24 Finance costs 13 13 Policyholder tax adjustments 101 101 2 Reallocation of central costs 2 2 Adjusting items before tax 68 39 41 70 Profit Loss before tax attributable toequityholders 34 201 72 163 1 Consolidation adjustments comprise the elimination of inter-segment transactions and the consolidation of investment funds.
2 Reallocation of central costs reverses management reallocations included within adjusted profit to reconcile back to IFRS profit.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 125 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 6: Segmental information continued 6 b ii : Adjusted profit statement segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2017 Adjusted profit Continuing operations Reconciliation to IFRS Operating segments Advice and Adjusting Wealth Wealth Head Adjusted Consolidation items IFRS Income 1 Management Platforms Office profit adjustments Note 7 a Statement Note m m m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 148 148 148 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 88 88 88 Net earned premiums 60 60 60 Fee income and other income from serviceactivities 8 a 382 526 908 13 895 Investment return 3 4,412 1 4,416 779 5,195 Other income 2 83 3 88 75 13 Segmental revenue 387 5,081 4 5,472 691 6,163 Expenses Claims and benefits paid 76 76 76 Reinsurance recoveries 54 54 54 Net insurance claims and benefits incurred 22 22 22 Change in reinsurance assets and liabilities 85 85 85 Change in insurance contract liabilities 78 78 78 Change in investment contract liabilities 4,308 4,308 4,308 Fee and commission expenses, andotheracquisition costs 52 198 250 70 320 Change in third-party interest inconsolidatedfunds 673 673 Other operating and administrative expenses 253 336 35 624 52 244 816 Finance costs 10 39 39 Segmental expenses 305 4,857 35 5,197 691 283 6,171 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments 3 3 Adjusted profit loss before all tax 82 224 31 275 280 5 Tax attributable to policyholders funds 66 66 17 49 Adjusted profit loss before tax attributable to equity holders 82 158 31 209 263 54 Reconciliation to IFRS: Adjusted for non-operating items: 7 a Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 53 1 54 Net profit on business disposals and acquisitions 3 3 Business transformation costs 89 89 Managed Separation costs 32 32 Finance costs 39 39 Policyholder tax adjustments 17 17 Voluntary customer remediation provision 69 69 Adjusting items before tax 53 141 69 263 Profit Loss before tax attributable toequity holders 29 17 100 54 1 Consolidation adjustments comprise the elimination of inter-segment transactions and the consolidation of investment funds.
126 Quilter Annual Report 2018 6: Segmental information continued 6 c i : Statement of financial position segmental information at 31 December 2018 Advice and Total Wealth Wealth Head Consolidation Continuing Discontinued 1 Management Platforms Office Adjustments Operations Operations Total Note m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and intangible assets 16 386 164 550 550 Property, plant and equipment 17 10 7 17 17 Investments in associated undertakings 2 2 2 Deferred acquisition costs 25 11 11 11 Contract costs 25 551 551 551 Contract assets 25 44 44 44 Loans and advances 18 27 188 7 222 222 Financial investments 19 3 54,636 2 4,578 59,219 59,219 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 29 2,162 2,162 2,162 Deferred tax assets 31 7 22 9 38 38 Current tax receivable 31 c 46 1 47 47 Trade, other receivables and other assets 24 197 178 8 103 486 486 Derivative assets 20 46 46 46 Cash and cash equivalents 26 358 1,113 440 484 2,395 2,395 Inter-segment funding assets 12 12 Total assets 1,032 59,090 469 5,199 65,790 65,790 Liabilities Long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities 29 602 602 602 Investment contract liabilities 29 56,450 56,450 56,450 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 5,116 5,116 5,116 Provisions 30 26 59 9 94 94 Deferred tax liabilities 31 40 19 59 59 Current tax payable 31 c 9 14 18 5 5 Borrowings 32 197 197 197 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 33 340 579 20 60 999 999 Contract liabilities 34 1 225 226 226 Derivative liabilities 20 1 36 37 37 Inter-segment funding liabilities 12 12 Total liabilities 416 57,949 220 5,200 63,785 63,785 Total equity 2,005 Total equity and liabilities 65,790 1 Consolidation adjustments comprise the elimination of inter-segment transactions and the consolidation of investment funds.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 127 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 6: Segmental information continued 6 c ii : Statement of financial position segmental information at 31 December 2017 Advice and Total Wealth Wealth Head Consolidation Continuing Discontinued 1 2 Management Platforms Office Adjustments Operations Operations Total Note m m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and intangible assets 16 412 162 574 574 Property, plant and equipment 17 9 9 18 18 3 Investments in associated undertakings 1 1 1 Deferred acquisition costs 25 611 611 611 Loans and advances 18 18 180 1 199 199 3 Financial investments 19 2 56,562 1 7,685 64,250 64,250 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 29 2,908 2,908 2,908 Deferred tax assets 31 6 15 1 22 22 Trade, other receivables and other assets 24 208 210 19 60 497 497 Derivative assets 24 1 86 87 87 Cash and cash equivalents 26 303 1,061 83 913 2,360 2,360 Assets of operations classified as held for sale 5 f 446 446 Inter-segment funding assets 4 12 16 Total assets 962 61,731 106 8,728 71,527 446 71,973 Liabilities Long-term business insurance  29 489 489 489 Investment contract liabilities 29 59,139 59,139 59,139 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 7,905 7,905 7,905 Provisions and accruals 30 10 89 5 104 104 Deferred tax liabilities 31 40 150 190 190 Current tax payable 31 c 21 40 23 38 38 Borrowings 32 782 782 782 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 33 275 607 43 406 1,331 1,331 Deferred revenue 34 1 243 244 244 Derivative liabilities 20 433 433 433 Liabilities of operations classified as held for sale 5 f 219 219 Inter-segment funding liabilities 16 16 Total liabilities 347 60,757 823 8,728 70,655 219 70,874 Total equity 1,099 Total equity and liabilities 71,973 1 Consolidation adjustments comprise the elimination of inter-segment transactions and the consolidation of investment funds.
2 Discontinued operations includes the balances of the Groups Single Strategy Asset Management business.
3 As at 31 December 2017, 2 million has been reclassified from investments in associated undertakings to financial investments to conform with current yearpresentation.
2017 comparatives for the segmental statement of financial position have been re-presented due to the reallocation of a UK holding company from Wealth Platforms to Head Office.
This change was made to ensure that all material intercompany loan balances are reported and eliminate within Head Office.
128 Quilter Annual Report 2018 6: Segmental information continued 6 d : Geographic segmental information In presenting geographic segmental information, revenue is based on the geographic location of our businesses.
The Group has defined twogeographic areas: UK and International.
UK International Advice and Total Wealth Wealth Head Wealth Consolidation Continuing Discontinued Total Management Platforms Office Platforms Adjustments Operations Operations Group For the year ended 31 December 2018 Note m m m m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 147 1 148 148 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 87 1 88 88 Net earned premiums 60 60 60 Premium-based fees 87 15 77 179 179 1 Fund-based fees 460 243 102 805 136 941 Retrocessions received, intragroup 17 4 21 Fixed fees 4 28 32 32 Surrender charges 1 16 17 17 Other fee and commission income 13 13 13 Fee income and other income from service activities 8 a 547 280 227 8 1,046 136 1,182 Investment return 9 2,332 3 916 246 3,482 3,482 Other income 2 98 6 3 74 35 2 37 Total revenue 558 1,894 9 686 328 2,341 138 2,203 1 Income from fiduciary activities is included within fund-based fees.
UK International Advice and Total Wealth Wealth Head Wealth Consolidation Continuing Discontinued Total Management Platforms Office Platforms Adjustments Operations Operations Group For the year ended 31 December 2017 Note m m m m m m m m Revenue Gross earned premiums 147 1 148 148 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 87 1 88 88 Net earned premiums 60 60 60 Premium-based fees 76 29 74 179 179 1 Fund-based fees 306 241 107 654 389 1,043 Retrocessions received, intragroup 17 6 23 Fixed fees 5 26 31 31 Surrender charges 1 20 21 21 Other fee and commission income 10 10 10 Fee income and other income from service activities 8 a 382 293 233 13 895 389 1,284 Investment return 3 3,366 1 1,046 779 5,195 7 5,202 Other income 2 81 3 2 75 13 3 16 Total revenue 387 3,800 4 1,281 691 6,163 399 6,562 1 Income from fiduciary activities is included within fund-based fees.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 129 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 7: Adjusted profit and adjusting items 7 a : Adjusted profit adjusting items In determining the adjusted profit for core operations, certain adjustments are made to profit before tax to reflect the underlying long-term performance of the Group.
The following table shows an analysis of those adjustments before and after tax.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Expense income Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 7 b 50 54 Profit on business acquisitions and disposals 7 c 3 Business transformation costs 7 d 84 89 Managed Separation costs 7 e 24 32 Finance costs 7 f 13 39 Policyholder tax adjustments 7 g 101 17 Voluntary customer remediation provision 7 h 69 Total adjusting items before tax 70 263 Tax on adjusting items 13 c 118 39 Less: policyholder tax adjustments 101 17 Total adjusting items after tax 53 241 7 b : Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting The recognition of goodwill and other acquired intangibles is created on the acquisition of a business and represents the premium paid over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the date of acquisition as recognised under IFRS 3.
The Group excludes from adjusted profit the impairment of goodwill, the amortisation and impairment of acquired other intangible assets as well as the movements in certain acquisition date provisions.
Costs incurred on completed acquisitions are also excluded from adjusted profit, including any finance costs related to discounted deferred consideration.
The effect of these adjustments to determine adjusted profit are summarised below: Advice and Wealth Wealth Head Total Management Platforms Office Group For the year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Impairment of other intangible assets 1 1 Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 41 41 1 Acquisition costs 5 5 Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration 3 3 Total goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 49 1 50 Advice and Wealth Wealth Head Total Management Platforms Office Group For the year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Amortisation of other acquired intangible assets 39 39 Change in acquisition date provisions 1 1 1 Acquisition costs 13 13 Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration 1 1 Total goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 53 1 54 1 Acquisition costs include items such as transaction costs or deferred incentives arising on the acquisition of businesses.
7 c : Net profit loss on business disposals and acquisitions As part of the Groups Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc, the Group acquired Commsale 2000 Limited Commsale from Old Mutual plc on 29 September 2017.
The total consideration was 0.29 million.
The NAV at the date of acquisition was 0.45 million, with a gain on purchase of 0.16 million being recognised, representing assets not valued within the agreed consideration.
On 30 November 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the whole of the issued share capital of Global Edge Technologies Pty Ltd GET, acompany incorporated in South Africa, from OM Group UK Limited part of the Old Mutual plc group for 1 million.
Along with recording thebook values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of 4 million, the Group recognised a bargain purchase gain of 3 million.
We determined that the excess of book value over consideration paid was attributable to potential future integration costs which, if incurred, would be expensed in future periods.
As potential future integrating activities do not qualify to be recorded as a liability in the application of theacquisition method of accounting, none were recorded.
130 Quilter Annual Report 2018 7: Adjusted profit and adjusting items continued 7 d : Business transformation costs Within business transformation costs are four items: costs associated with the UK Platform Transformation Programme, build out costs incurred within Quilter Investors as a result of the sale of our Single Strategy Asset Management business, Optimisation programme costs and, in the prior period, certain one-off charges relating to the transformation of our business as we separated from Old Mutual plc.
Each item is described in detail below.
UK Platform Transformation Programme 31 December 2018: 58 million, 31 December 2017: 74 million In 2013, the Group embarked on a significant programme to develop new platform capabilities and to outsource UK business administration.
This involved replacing many aspects of the existing UK Platform, and on completion certain elements of service provision would be migrated to International Financial Data Services IFDS under a long-term outsourcing agreement.
The cost of developing the new technology did not meet the criteria for capitalisation and were expensed.
These direct costs and the costs of decommissioning existing technology and migrating of services to IFDS are excluded from adjusted profit.
The contracts with International Financial Data Services related to the UK Platform transformation came to an end by mutual agreement effective as of 2 May 2017.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, these costs total nil 31 December 2017: 53 million.
The Group conducted a comprehensive review of the options available to the UK Platform business and, in May 2017, entered into a new contract with FNZ, having concluded that FNZs scale, market-proven and functionally-rich offering was the most suitable to meet the current and anticipated needs of the business.
In partnership with FNZ, the Group expects to deliver all the existing functionality of the platform with increased levels of straight-through processing and enhanced functionality for new business and to migrate the in-force UK Platform business over time.
For the period ended 31December 2018, these costs totalled 58 million 31 December 2017: 21 million.
Quilter Investors build out costs 31 December 2018: 19 million, 31 December 2017: nil In March 2016, Old Mutual plc announced its Managed Separation strategy that sought to unlock and create significant long-term value for shareholders.
As part of this strategy, Quilters Multi-Asset now renamed as Quilter Investors and Single Strategy teams were to develop as separate distinct businesses, and the Single Strategy Asset Management business was sold to its management and TA Associates on 29 June 2018.
As a result, the Group has incurred 24 million of one-off costs in the year ended 31 December 2018, 5 million of which are included in profit on disposal within discontinued operations and 19 million is an adjusting item within continuing business.
One-off transformational costs as a result of Quilters Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc 31 December 2018: nil, 31December 2017: 15 million The Group historically had a number of arrangements with the wider Old Mutual plc groups South African businesses.
As a consequence ofManaged Separation these arrangements were severed and, as a result, deferred acquisition cost balances totalling 10 million were written off included within fee and commission expenses in the income statement, together with a loss incurred of 5 million on the cancellation ofreinsurance arrangements included within other costs within the income statement in the year ended 31 December 2017.
These charges are regarded as one-off and related to the transformation of the business to a standalone group.
Optimisation programme costs 31 December 2018: 7 million, 31 December 2017: nil Following the Groups Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc, the Group has initiated an Optimisation programme focused on driving operational efficiencies, incurring 7 million of one-off project costs to date.
7 e : Managed Separation costs One-off costs related to the implementation of Managed Separation recognised in the IFRS income statement have been excluded from adjusted profit on the basis that they are not representative of the operating activity of the Group.
These costs relate to preparing the Group tooperate as astandalone business and the execution of various transactions required to implement our Managed Separation strategy.
Theyare not expected topersist in the long term as they relate to a fundamental restructuring of the Group, which is not operational in nature, rather than more routine restructuring activity which would be seen as part of the usual course of business.
The treatment and the disclosure of these costs as an adjusting item are also intended to make these costs more visible to the readers of the financial statements in the context of publicly disclosed estimates previously given in relation to these items.
For the period ended 31 December 2018, these costs totalled 24million 31 December 2017: 32 million.
7 f : Finance costs The nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision making and internal performance management, the effects of interest costs on borrowings are removed when calculating adjusted profit.
For year ended 31 December 2018, the finance costs totalled 13 million 31 December 2017: 39 million see note 10.
7 g : Policyholder tax adjustments Adjustments to policyholder tax are made to remove distortions arising from market volatility that can in turn lead to volatility in the policyholdertax charge between periods.
The significant market volatility during the year ended 31 December 2018 has resulted in a 96million adjustment 31 December 2017: 4 million.
For a further explanation of the impact of markets on the policyholder tax charge seenote 13 a.
Adjustments are also made to remove distortions from other non-operating adjusting items that results in a further 5 million tax adjustment as at 31December 2018 31 December 2017: 21 million.
For the period ended 31 December 2018, the total policyholder tax adjustments to adjusted profit total 101 million 31 December 2017: 17million as shown in note 13 c. Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 131 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 7: Adjusted profit and adjusting items continued 7 h : Voluntary Customer Remediation Provision As detailed in note 30 Provisions and Accruals, as part of its ongoing work to promote fair customer outcomes, the Group conducted product reviews consistent with the recommendations from the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA thematic feedback and the FCAs guidance FG16 8 Fair treatment of long-standing customers in the life insurance sector.
Following those reviews, the Group decided to commence voluntary remediation to customers in certain products, resulting in an additional provision raised during 2017 of 69 million.
During 2018 31 million of this provision has been utilised against programme costs and pension remediation incurred.
The provision was recognised in the IFRS income statement but has been excluded from adjusted profit on the basis that it is not representative of the operating performance of the business.
8: Details of income This note gives further detail on the items appearing in the income section of the consolidated income statement.
8 a : Fee income and other income from service activities This note analyses the fees, commission and other income from service activities earned by the Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 2018 2017 m m Fee income and other income from service activities Premium-based fees 179 179 2 Fund-based fees 805 654 Fixed fees 32 31 Surrender charges 17 21 Other fee and commission income 13 10 Fee income and other income from service activities continuing operations 1,046 895 Fee income and other income from service activities discontinued operations 136 389 Total fee income and other income from service activities 1,182 1,284 1 A number of items have been reclassified in the prior year comparatives to conform with current year presentation.
2 Income from fiduciary activities is included within fund-based fees.
8 b : Investment return This note analyses the investment return from the Groups investing activities.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Net investment income Interest and similar income Investments and securities 59 53 1 Cash and cash equivalents 21 10 Total interest and similar income 80 63 Dividend income 99 83 Foreign currency gains and losses 2 3 2 Total gains on financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss 3,663 5,046 2 Mandatorily at fair value through profit and loss 3,658 2 Designated at fair value through profit and loss 5 5,046 Net investment income continuing operations 3,482 5,195 Net investment income discontinued operations 7 Total net investment income 3,482 5,202 1 Included within interest on cash and cash equivalents is 2 million arising from assets held at amortised cost.
The remainder is from assets at FVTPL.
2 The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 and has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 7.2.
15 of IFRS 9 from restating prior periods in respect of IFRS 9s classification and measurement including impairment requirements.
Refer to note 4 r for further information.
132 Quilter Annual Report 2018 9: Details of expenses This note gives further detail on the items appearing in the expense section of the consolidated income statement.
9 a : Fee and commission expenses This note analyses the fee and commission expenses and other acquisition costs.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Fee and commission expenses Fee and commission expense 227 92 Acquisition commission costs investment contracts 54 80 Acquisition commission costs insurance business 7 12 Renewal commission investment contracts 74 84 Retrocessions paid 26 16 Changes in deferred acquisition costs and contract costs 25 49 36 Fee and commission expenses continuing operations 437 320 Fee and commission expenses discontinued operations 31 62 Total fee and commission expenses 468 382 9 b : Other operating and administrative expenses This note gives further detail on the items included within other operating and administrative expenses section of the consolidated incomestatement.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Other operating and administrative expenses 1 Staff costs 11 394 388 Depreciation 8 8 Operating lease payments 16 14 Amortisation of purchased software 5 2 Amortisation of other acquired intangibles 41 39 1 Administration and other expenses 308 365 Other operating and administrative expenses continuing operations 772 816 Other operating and administrative expenses discontinued operations 81 185 Total other operating and administrative expenses 853 1,001 1 In the year ended 31 December 2017, 9 million of share-based payments expenses have been reclassified from administration and other expenses to staff costs.
Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for the rental of buildings and equipment.
Administration and other expenses include business transformation costs for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 58 million 2017: 74 million in relation to the UK Platform Transformation Programme and nil in relation to the voluntary customer remediation provision 2017: 69 million, as well as general operating expenses such as IT related costs, premises and marketing.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 133 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 10: Finance costs This note analyses the interest costs on our borrowings and similar charges, all of which are valued at amortised cost.
Finance costs comprise: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Term loans and other external debt 2 Subordinated debt securities Tier 2 bond 8 Loans from Old Mutual plc 3 39 Interest payable on borrowed funds 13 39 Other 4 Total finance costs continuing operations 17 39 Finance costs represent the cost of interest and finance charges on the Groups borrowings from a number of relationship banks and Old Mutual plc.
The Group has had no borrowings from Old Mutual plc since 28 February 2018.
More details regarding borrowed funds, including the interest rates payable, are shown in note 32.
These costs are excluded from adjusted profit within the Finance costs adjusting item.
Including the impact of amortisation of bond set-up costs, the issuance of the Tier 2 Bond will result in expenses in the Head Office segment of approximately 10 million on an annual basis.
This has replaced the 39 million of interest on the borrowings with Old Mutual plc in prior years.
Within other finance costs above is 3 million relating to the impact of unwinding the discount rate on deferred consideration payable as aresult of various acquisitions.
These costs are excluded from adjusted profit within the Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting adjusting item as shown in note 7 b.
11: Staff costs and other employee-related costs 11 a : Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Wages and salaries 232 235 1 Bonus and incentive remuneration 65 66 Social security costs 27 28 Retirement obligations Defined contribution plans 13 11 Share-based payments Cash-settled 28 f 3 4 1 Equity-settled 28 f 26 17 Other 28 27 Staff costs continuing operations 394 388 Staff costs discontinued operations 56 142 Total staff costs 450 530 In the year ended 31 December 2017, 9 million of administration and other expenses see note 9 b and 3 million of bonus and incentive remuneration have been reclassified to share-based payment expenses.
This has resulted in a corresponding reclassification of 4 million relating to cash-settled schemes and 8million relating to equity-settled schemes in the table above.
11 b : Employee numbers Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Number Number The average number of persons employed by the Group was: Advice and Wealth Management 1,396 1,360 Wealth Platforms 2,823 2,514 Head Office 60 66 Continuing operations 4,279 3,940 Discontinued operations 141 283 Total average number of employees during the year 4,420 4,223 The average number of persons employed by the Group is based on permanent employees, fixed term contractors and contractors employed via third parties.
134 Quilter Annual Report 2018 12: Auditors remuneration Included in other operating and administrative expenses are fees paid to the Groups auditors.
These can be categorised as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Fees for audit services Group and Parent Company 1.1 0.4 Subsidiaries 2.2 2.1 Total fees for audit services 3.3 2.5 Fees for audit-related assurance services 1.2 0.5 Total fees for audit and audit-related assurance services 4.5 3.0 Fees for non-audit services 2.3 1.1 Total Group auditors remuneration continuing operations 6.8 4.1 Total Group auditors remuneration discontinued operations 0.1 0.8 Total Group auditors remuneration 6.9 4.9 13: Tax This note analyses the income tax expense recognised in profit or loss for the period and the various factors that have contributed to the composition of the charge.
13 a : Tax charged to the income statement The total tax charge for the period comprises: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Current tax United Kingdom 6 43 International 4 3 1 Adjustments to current tax in respect of prior periods 25 1 Total current tax 15 47 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 155 2 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 1 1 Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior periods 2 7 Total deferred tax 154 6 Total tax credited charged to income statement continuing operations 169 41 Total tax charged to income statement discontinued operations 5 c 2 29 Total tax credited charged to income statement 167 70 Attributable to policyholder returns 158 49 Attributable to equity holders 9 21 Total tax credited charged to income statement 167 70 1 The current year tax adjustment in respect of prior periods is 25 million 31 December 2017: 1 million.
This is primarily as a result of the carry back of policyholder capital losses in the life businesses as permitted under UK tax legislation resulting in tax credits in respect of 2016 and 2017.
This policyholder tax is an element of total tax expense.
To make the tax expense more meaningful, tax attributable to policyholder returns and tax attributable to equity holders profits is shown separately in the income statement.
The remainder of the tax expense is attributed to shareholders as tax attributable to equity holders.
Significant market volatility during the year ended 31 December 2018 resulted in investment return losses of 623 million on products subjectto policyholder tax.
This loss is a component of the total investment return loss of 3,482 million shown in the income statement.
Theimpact of the 623 million investment return loss, together with the utilisation of brought forward capital losses, are the primary reasonsfor the 158million tax credit attributable to policyholder returns for the year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 49million charge.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 135 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 13: Tax continued 13 b : Reconciliation of total income tax expense The income tax charged to profit or loss differs from the amount that would apply if all of the Groups profits from the different tax jurisdictions had been taxed at the UK standard corporation tax rate.
The difference in the effective rate is explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Profit Loss before tax 5 5 Tax at UK standard rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 1 1 Different tax rate or basis on overseas operations 5 3 Untaxed and low taxed income 15 2 Disallowable expenses 6 7 1 Adjustments to current tax in respect of prior years 25 1 Net movement on deferred tax assets not recognised 11 14 Effect on deferred tax of changes in tax rates 1 1 Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior years 2 7 Income tax attributable to policyholder returns 121 61 Total tax credited charged to income statement continuing operations 169 41 Total tax charged to income statement discontinued operations 5 c 2 29 Total tax credited charged to income statement 167 70 1 The adjustment in current tax in respect of prior years of 25 million 31 December 2017: 1 million is primarily as a result of the carry back of policyholder capital losses in the life businesses as permitted under UK tax legislation resulting in tax credits in respect of 2016 and 2017.
13 c : Reconciliation of income tax expense in the IFRS income statement to income tax on adjusted profit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Income tax credit expense on continuing operations 169 41 Tax on adjusting items Goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting 8 8 Business transformation costs 16 14 Managed Separation costs 2 4 Finance costs 2 8 Policyholder tax adjustments 101 17 Voluntary customer remediation provision 14 Other shareholder tax adjustments 11 26 Total tax on adjusting items 118 39 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 57 66 Tax charged on adjusted profit continuing operations 6 14 Tax charged on adjusted profit discontinued operations 5 29 Tax charged on adjusted profit 11 43 14: Earnings per share The Group calculates earnings per share EPS on a number of different bases as appropriate to prevailing International and UK practices and guidance.
IFRS requires the calculation of basic and diluted EPS.
Adjusted EPS reflects earnings per share that is consistent with the Groups alternative profit measure.
The Groups EPS on these different bases are summarised below.
Disclosure of basic and diluted EPS is required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share.
On 6 June 2018, the Board approved a reorganisation of the Companys share capital to enable the implementation of the Managed Separation before the initial public offering on 25 June 2018 and, consequently, both basic and diluted EPS for historical periods was not representative of the Groups current structure.
In accordance with IAS33, share transactions that change the number of shares in issue but do not result in any corresponding change to an entitys resources, such as share splits, bonus issues to existing shareholders and share consolidations are adjusted for in the EPS denominator as if these transactions had occurred at the start of the earliest period for which EPS is presented.
Accordingly, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue at 31 December 2017 have been retrospectively restated to take account of the new share structure at Listing.
Asa result, the Groups EPS has fallen relative to the position shown in the 31 December 2017 Historical Financial Information, within the Listing Prospectus, because the number of shares has increased on Listing.
For further information on share capital refer to note 27.
136 Quilter Annual Report 2018 14: Earnings per share continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Source of guidance Note pence pence Basic earnings per share IFRS 14 a 26.6 8.6 Diluted basic earnings per share IFRS 14 b 26.5 8.6 Adjusted basic earnings per share Group policy 14 c 12.4 10.7 Adjusted diluted earnings per share Group policy 14 c 12.3 10.7 Headline earnings per share net of tax JSE Listing Requirements 14 d 10.6 4.0 Diluted headline earnings per share net of tax JSE Listing Requirements 14 d 10.5 4.0 14 a : Basic earnings per share IFRS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial period attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares excludes the following treasury shares: Quilter plc shares held within Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs to satisfy the Groups obligations under employee share awards: and Quilter plc shares held in consolidated funds.
Treasury shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating both basic and diluted EPS.
i The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Profit Loss after tax from continuing operations 174 46 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 314 203 Profit for the for the financial period for the calculation of earnings per share 488 157 The table below summarises the calculation of the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of calculating basic earnings per share: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,902 1,902 Treasury shares including those held in EBTs millions 70 72 Adjusted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to calculate basic earnings per share millions 1,832 1,830 Basic earnings per Ordinary Share pence 26.6 8.6 14 b : Diluted earnings per share IFRS Diluted EPS recognises the dilutive impact of shares and options awarded to employees under share-based payment arrangements potential Ordinary Shares, to the extent they have value, in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares, as if the relevant shareswere in issue for the full year.
The table below summarises the calculation of weighted average number of shares for the purpose ofderiving diluted EPS: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Note 2018 2017 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders m 488 157 Diluted profit attributable to ordinary equity holders m 488 157 Adjusted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 14 a 1,832 1,830 Adjustments for share options held by EBTs and similar trusts millions 7 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share millions 1,839 1,830 Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share pence 26.5 8.6 There is no dilutive impact of potential shares on EPS for the period ended 31 December 2017 because the new share-based payment arrangements, settled in Quilter plc shares, have only been in place since Listing 25 June 2018.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 137 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 14: Earnings per share continued 14 c : Adjusted earnings per share The following table presents a reconciliation of profit for the financial period to adjusted profit after tax attributable to ordinary equity holders and summarises the calculation of adjusted earnings per share: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Profit for the financial period attributable to shareholders of the Company 488 157 Adjusting items 7 70 263 Income tax expense on adjusting items 13 c 118 39 Less: Policyholder tax adjustments 13 c 101 17 Less: Profit after tax from discontinued operations 5 c 314 203 Adjusted profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders 227 195 Adjusted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to calculate adjusted basic earnings per share millions 14 a 1,832 1,830 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 12.4 10.7 Adjusted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used to calculate diluted adjusted earnings per share millions 14 b 1,839 1,830 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 12.3 10.7 14 d : Headline earnings per share The Group is required to calculate headline earnings per share HEPS in accordance with the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited JSE Listing Requirements, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 02 2015 Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic EPS and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of IFRS, but it is a commonly used measure of earnings in South Africa.
The table below reconciles the profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent to headline earnings and summarises the calculation of basic HEPS: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Gross Net of tax Gross Net of tax m m m m Profit for the period attributable to shareholders of the Company 488 157 Adjusting items: Less: Profit on disposals of subsidiaries 290 294 83 83 Headline earnings 290 194 83 74 Diluted headline earnings 194 74 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,832 1,830 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,839 1,830 Headline earnings per share pence 10.6 4.0 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 10.5 4.0 15: Dividends This note analyses the total dividends paid during the year.
The table below does not include the final dividend proposed after the year end because it is not accrued in these financial statements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Payment 2018 2017 date m m Ordinary dividends declared and charged to equity in the year 2017 Special dividend paid 161.47p per Ordinary Share 9 January 2017 210 2018 Special interim dividend paid 12.00p per Ordinary Share 21 September 2018 221 Dividends paid to ordinary shareholders 221 210 138 Quilter Annual Report 2018 15: Dividends continued Subsequent to year ended 31 December 2018 the Directors proposed a final dividend for 2018 of 3.3 pence per Ordinary Share amounting to61 million in total.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on 20 May 2019.
In compliance with the rulesissued by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in relation to the implementation of the Solvency II regime and other regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject, the dividend is required to remain cancellable at any point prior to it becoming due and payable on20 May 2019 and to be cancelled if, prior to payment, the Group ceases to hold capital resources equal to or in excess of its Solvency Capital Requirement, or if that would be the case if the dividend was paid.
The Directors have no intention of exercising this cancellation right, other than where required to do so by the PRA or for regulatory capital purposes.
Final and interim dividends paid to ordinary shareholders are calculated using the number of shares in issue at the record date less own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts.
16: Goodwill and intangible assets 16 a : Analysis of goodwill and intangible assets The table below shows the movements in cost, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
Software Other development intangible 4 4 Goodwill costs assets Total m m m m Gross amount At 1 January 2017 373 94 350 817 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 15 30 45 2 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 82 2 3 87 Other movements 5 6 1 At 31 December 2017 306 97 371 774 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 9 14 Additions 4 4 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1 1 3 Other movements 4 1 3 At 31 December 2018 314 100 380 794 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2017 90 73 163 Amortisation charge for the year 2 39 41 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 2 3 5 Other movements 2 1 1 At 31 December 2017 92 108 200 Amortisation charge for the year 4 41 45 Impairment of other acquired intangibles 1 1 Other movements 1 1 2 At 31 December 2018 95 149 244 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 306 5 263 574 At 31 December 2018 314 5 231 550 1 Goodwill acquired through business combinations for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 15 million relates to the acquisition of Caerus Capital Group Limited 10 million and various acquisitions by the QPCA business 5 million.
Refer to note 5 a for further information.
2 Goodwill transferred to non-current assets held for sale relates to the Single Strategy Asset Management business see note 5 f. 3 Goodwill has increased by 4 million in 2018 due to a review of the purchase price allocation PPA calculation at 31 December 2017 year end relating to theQPCAacquisitions resulting in a reclassification from other intangibles to goodwill.
4 In year ended 31 December 2017 6 million has been reclassified from software development costs to other intangible assets to conform with current yearpresentation.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 139 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 16: Goodwill and intangible assets continued 16 a : Analysis of goodwill and intangible assets continued The net carrying amount of other intangible assets at 31 December 2018 principally comprises: 168 million FY 2017: 196 million relating to distribution channels in the Quilter Cheviot business to be amortised over a further six years : 19 million FY 2017: 25 million relating to mutual fund and asset management relationship assets in the Intrinsic business to be amortised over a further four years : 4 million FY 2017: 7 million relating to the Quilter Cheviot brand to be amortised over a further one year : 3 million FY 2017: 3 million relating to the acquisition of AAM Advisory Pte Ltd to be amortised over a further seven years : 9 million FY 2017: 8 million relating to customer distribution channels of Caerus Capital Group Limited to be amortised over a further sixyears : 20 million 2017: 16 million relating to customer relationships of the QPCA business to be amortised over six to eight years : and 8 million 2017: 8 million relating to customer relationships of Attivo Investment Management Limited to be amortised over 6 years.
16 b : Allocation of goodwill to cash generating units CGUs and impairment testing Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs, which are contained within the following operating segments as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Goodwill net carrying amount Advice and Wealth Management 153 148 Wealth Platforms 161 158 Goodwill as per the Statement of Financial Position 314 306 Goodwill held for sale 82 Total goodwill 314 388 In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill in both the Advice and Wealth Management and Wealth Platforms CGUs is tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying value of the CGU to which the goodwill relates to the recoverable value of that CGU, being the higher of that CGUs value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment charge is recognised when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The value-in-use calculations for life assurance operations are determined as the sum of net tangible assets, the expected future profits arising from the in-force business, together with the expected profits from future new business derived from business plans.
Future profit elements allow for the cost of capital needed to support the business.
The net tangible assets and future profits arising from the in-force business are derived from Solvency II SII calculations.
The value of in-force VIF is calculated as the prospective value of future expected cash flows on all in-force policies at the valuation date on a policy-by-policy basis allowing for surrender or transfer payments, death claims, income withdrawals, maintenance expenses, fund-based fees, mortality charge protection premiums and other policy charges.
The underlying assumptions are based on the best estimate view for the future, which is largely based on recent business experience and any emerging trends.
The unit fund growth rates gross of investment charges and the risk discount rates are set using the prescribed SII term-dependent risk-free interest rates.
The SII calculations are adjusted for a risk margin using the prescribed SII rules.
The value-in-use calculations for asset management operations are determined as the sum of net tangible assets and the expected profits from existing and expected future new business.
The cash flows that have been used to determine the value-in-use of the cash generating units are based on three year business plans.
Thesecash flows grow at different rates because of the different strategies of the CGUs.
In cases where the CGUs have made significant acquisitions in the recent past, the profits are forecast to grow faster than the more mature businesses.
Post the three year growth business plan, the growth rate used to determine the terminal value of the cash generating units approximates to the UK long-term growth rate of 2.1% 2017: 2.9%.
Market share and market growth information are also used to inform the expected volumes of future new business.
The Group uses a single cost of capital of 10.8% 2017: 9.4% to discount future expected business plan cash flows across its two CGUs because they are perceived to present a similar level of risk and are strongly integrated.
Capital is provided to the Group predominantly by shareholders with only a small amount of debt.
The cost of capital is the weighted average of the cost of equity return required by shareholders and the costof debt return required by bond holders.
When assessing the systematic risk i. e. beta value within the calculation of the cost of equity, atriangulation approach is used that combines beta values obtained from historical data, a forward looking view on the progression of beta values and the external views of investors.
On business disposals, goodwill is allocated to the disposed business based on the relative value-in-use of the business from calculations used within the impairment reviews.
During the period, the Group updated its assessment of goodwill for potential impairment.
The recoverable amounts of goodwill allocated to the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
There was no indication of impairment of goodwill during the period.
The goodwill model is subject to certain stress tests, including sudden stock market falls, the absence of net client cash flow, and the impact of an increase indiscount rates.
None of these have resulted in any indication of impairment to goodwill.
140 Quilter Annual Report 2018 17: Property, plant and equipment The following table analyses property, plant and equipment.
Leasehold Plant and improvements equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 12 73 85 Additions 1 7 8 Additions from business combinations 3 3 Disposals 4 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 2 2 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 2 At 31 December 2017 13 75 88 Additions 2 5 7 Disposals 1 1 Foreign exchange and other movements 2 2 At 31 December 2018 13 79 92 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 4 63 67 Depreciation charge for the year 1 7 8 Disposals 4 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 2 1 1 At 31 December 2017 7 63 70 Depreciation charge for the year 1 7 8 Disposals 2 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 1 1 At 31 December 2018 8 67 75 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 6 12 18 At 31 December 2018 5 12 17 18: Loans and advances This note analyses the loans and advances the Group has made.
The carrying amounts of loans and advances were as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Loans to policyholders 189 181 Loans to brokers and other loans to clients 27 19 Other loans 7 Gross loans and advances 223 200 Provision for impairments 1 1 Total net loans and advances 222 199 To be recovered within 12 months 199 190 To be recovered after 12 months 23 9 Total net loans and advances 222 199 Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 141 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 18: Loans and advances continued The carrying amount of loans approximates to their fair value which is measured as the principal amounts receivable under the loan agreements.
Policyholder loans are amounts taken from an individual policyholders unit-linked accounts and loaned to the same policyholder.
Policyholder loans are non-interest bearing and are deemed to be risk free from a shareholder perspective as the policyholder retains all associated risks.
Policyholder loans are available on demand as they have no repayment schedule.
Included within loans to brokers and other loans to clients, are loans to advisers made on commercial terms.
Other loans represent a loan to TA Associates in respect of the deferred consideration receivable arising from the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business.
The loan is repayable no later than 2022, but is expected to be repaid between 2019 and 2021 as surplus capital is released from thatbusiness.
The provision for impairments is a specific impairment relating to a balance due from a financial adviser that is not expected to be recovered.
Theimpairment was recognised during 2016 under IAS 39: any future provisions will be recognised under IFRS 9 and disclosed in the expected credit loss model in note 40.
19: Financial investments The table below analyses the investments and securities that the Group invests in, either for its own proprietary behalf shareholder funds oron behalf of third parties policyholder funds.
At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Government and  securities 1,175 2,427 Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures 2,095 2,401 1 Equity securities 10,006 12,556 Pooled investments 45,931 46,455 Short-term funds and securities treated as investments 12 15 Other 396 Total financial investments 59,219 64,250 To be recovered within 12 months 59,044 64,074 To be recovered after 12 months 175 176 Total financial investments 59,219 64,250 1 At 31 December 2017, 2 million has been reclassified from investments in associated undertakings to financial investments to aid comparability betweenperiods.
The financial investments recoverability profile is based on the intention with which the financial assets are held.
These assets, together with the reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities, are held to cover the liabilities for linked investment contracts net of reinsurance, all of which can be withdrawn by policyholders on demand.
19 a : Other debt securities, preference shares and debentures All debt securities, preference shares and debentures are neither past due nor impaired.
These debt instruments and similar securities are classified according to their local credit rating Standard & Poors or an equivalent, by investment grade.
Further information of the credit rating of debt securities, preference shares and debentures is analysed in the table in note 40 b.
19 b : Equity securities Equity securities are held to cover the liabilities for linked investment contracts.
The majority of the listed securities are traded on the LondonStock Exchange.
The majority of the Groups holdings of unlisted equity securities arise principally from private equity investments, held exclusively on behalf ofpolicyholders.
142 Quilter Annual Report 2018 20: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities The Group has limited involvement with derivative instruments and does not use them for speculation purposes.
Derivative instruments areused to manage well-defined foreign exchange risks arising out of the normal course of business.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce currency risk on accounts receivable and future revenues denominated in United States dollars.
The Group doesnot anticipate any material adverse effect on its financial position resulting from its involvement in these types of contracts, nor does itanticipate non-performance by counterparties.
The Group only deals with highly rated counterparties.
The majority of derivatives included within the statement of financial position relate to instruments included as a consequence of the consolidation of investment funds.
This can be seen within the segmented statement of financial position note 6 c. At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Assets 46 87 Liabilities 37 433 21: Categories of financial instruments The analysis of financial assets and liabilities into their categories as defined in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is set out in the following tables.
Assets and liabilities of a non-financial nature, or financial assets and liabilities that are specifically excluded from the scope of IFRS 9, are reflected in the non-financial assets and liabilities category.
For information about the methods and assumptions used in determining fair value please refer to note 22.
The Groups exposure to various risks associated with financial instruments is discussed in note 40 c. 1 Fair value Non-financial Mandatorily Designated Amortised assets and at FVTPL at FVTPL cost liabilities Total At 31 December 2018 Measurement basis m m m m m Assets 2 Investments in associated undertakings 2 2 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 1,671 491 2,162 Contract assets 44 44 Loans and advances 189 33 222 Financial investments 59,052 167 59,219 Trade, other receivables and other assets 449 37 486 Derivative financial instruments 46 46 Cash and cash equivalents 1,361 1,034 2,395 Total assets that include financial instruments 62,319 167 1,560 530 64,576 Total other non-financial assets 1,214 1,214 Total assets 62,319 167 1,560 1,744 65,790 Liabilities Long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities 602 602 Investment contract liabilities 56,450 56,450 Third-party interest in consolidation of funds 5,116 5,116 Borrowings 197 197 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 840 159 999 Derivative financial instruments 37 37 Total liabilities that include financial instruments 61,603 1,037 761 63,401 Total other non-financial liabilities 384 384 Total liabilities 61,603 1,037 1,145 63,785 1 The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time in 2018.
IFRS 9 introduces new classification and measurement categories.
The Mandatorily at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVTPL category includes financial assets that are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis, including those previously described as held for trading.
The majority of the Groups financial assets and liabilities continue to be measured at FVTPL.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 7.2.
For further information on IFRS 9 refer to note 4.
2 Investments in associated undertakings classified as non-financial assets and liabilities are equity accounted.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 143 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 21: Categories of financial instruments continued 1 Fair value Amortised cost Designated at fair value Financial Non-financial Held for through the Loans and liabilities assets and trading profit or loss receivables amortised cost liabilities Total At 31 December 2017 Measurement basis m m m m m m Assets 2, 3 Investments in associated undertakings 1 1 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 2,525 383 2,908 Loans and advances 180 19 199 3 Financial investments 64,250 64,250 Trade, other receivables and other assets 154 343 497 Derivative financial instruments 87 87 4 Cash and cash equivalents 412 1,948 2,360 Total assets that include financial instruments 87 67,367 2,121 727 70,302 Total other non-financial assets 1,225 1,225 Total assets net of held for sale 87 67,367 2,121 1,952 71,527 Total assets classified as held for sale 147 299 446 Total assets 87 67,367 2,268 2,251 71,973 Liabilities Long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities 489 489 Investment contract liabilities 59,139 59,139 Third-party interest in consolidation of funds 7,905 7,905 Borrowings 782 782 Trade, other payables and other liabilities 505 826 1,331 Derivative financial instruments 433 433 Total liabilities that include financial instruments 433 67,044 1,287 1,315 70,079 Total other non-financial liabilities 576 576 Total liabilities net of held for sale 433 67,044 1,287 1,891 70,655 Total liabilities classified as held for sale 219 219 Total liabilities 433 67,044 1,287 2,110 70,874 1 The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the first time in 2018.
15 of IFRS 9 fromrestating prior periods in respect of IFRS 9s classification and measurement including impairment requirements.
For further information on IFRS 9 refertonote 4.
3 As at 31 December 2017 2 million has been reclassified from investments in associated undertakings to financial investments to conform with current yearpresentation.
4 As at 31 December 2017 412 million money market collective investment funds has been reclassified from amortised costs to FVTPL level 1 to aid comparability between periods.
144 Quilter Annual Report 2018 22: Fair value methodology This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of financial instruments that are recognised and measured at fair value in the financial statements.
Classifying financial instruments into the three levels below, prescribed under accounting standards, provides an indication about the reliability of inputs used in determining fair value.
22 a : Determination of fair value The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market exit prices for assets and offer prices for liabilities, at the close of business on the reporting date, without any deduction for transaction costs: for units in unit trusts and shares in open ended investment companies, fair value is determined by reference to published quoted prices representing exit values in an active market: for equity and debt securities not actively traded in organised markets and where the price cannot be retrieved, the fair value is determined by reference to similar instruments for which market observable prices exist: for assets that have been suspended from trading on an active market, the last published price is used.
Many suspended assets are still regularly priced.
At the reporting date all suspended assets are assessed for impairment: and where the assets are private company shares the valuation is based on the latest available set of audited financial statements where available, or if more recent, a statement of valuation provided by the private companys management.
There have been no significant changes in the valuation techniques applied when valuing financial instruments.
The general principles applied to those instruments measured at fair value are outlined below: Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities are measured on a basis that is consistent with the measurement of the provisions held in respect ofthe related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance contracts which cover financial risk are measured at fair value of the underlying assets.
Loans and advances Loans and advances include loans to policyholders, loans to brokers, and other secured and unsecured loans.
Loans and advances to policyholders of investment-linked contracts are measured at fair value.
All other loans are stated at their amortised cost.
Financial investments Financial investments include government and  securities, listed and unlisted debt securities, preference shares and debentures, listed and unlisted equity securities, listed and unlisted pooled investments see below, short-term funds and securities treated as investments and certain other securities.
Pooled investments represent the Groups holdings of shares units in open-ended investment companies, unit trusts, mutual funds and similar investment vehicles.
Pooled investments are recognised at fair value.
The fair values of pooled investments are based on widely published prices that are regularly updated.
Other financial investments that are measured at fair value are measured at observable market prices where available.
In the absence of observable market prices, these investments and securities are fair valued utilising various approaches including discounted cash flows, theapplication of an earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation multiple or any other relevant technique.
Derivatives The fair value of derivatives is determined with reference to the exchange traded prices of the specific instruments.
In situations where thederivatives are traded over the counter the fair value of the instruments is determined by the utilisation of option pricing models.
Investment contract liabilities The fair value of the investment contract liabilities is determined with reference to the underlying funds that are held by the Group.
Third-party interests in consolidation of funds Third-party interests in consolidation of funds are measured at the attributable net asset value of each fund.
Borrowed funds Borrowed funds are stated at amortised cost.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 145 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 22: Fair value methodology continued 22 b : Fair value hierarchy Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: Description of hierarchy Types of instruments classified in the respective levels Level 1 quoted market prices: financial assets and liabilities with quoted Listed equity securities, government securities and other listed debt prices for identical instruments in active markets.
securities and similar instruments that are actively traded, actively traded pooled investments, certain quoted derivative assets and liabilities, reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities and investment contract liabilities directly linked to other Level 1 financial assets.
Level 2 valuation techniques using observable inputs: financial assets and Unlisted equity and debt securities where the valuation is based on models liabilities with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or involving no significant unobservable data.
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and Over the counter OTC derivatives, certain privately placed debt financial assets and liabilities valued using models where all significant instruments and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
Level 3 valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs: Unlisted equity and securities with significant unobservable inputs, financial assets and liabilities valued using valuation techniques where securities where the market is not considered sufficiently active, oneor more significant inputs are unobservable.
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, for example, consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to measure the fair value of the asset or liability requires additional work during the valuation process.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable data and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant inputs that are unobservable and, for them, the derivation of fair value is more judgemental.
A financial asset or liability in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if a significant proportion of that asset or liabilitys carrying amount is driven by unobservable inputs.
In this context, unobservable means that there is little or no current market data available for which to determine the price at which an armslength transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no market data available at all upon which to base adetermination of fair value.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a valuation technique with significant unobservable data may be attributable to observable inputs.
Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in determining unobservable inputs willgenerally be restricted to uncertainty about the overall fair value of the asset or liability being measured.
22 c : Transfer between fair value hierarchies The Group deems a transfer to have occurred between Level 1 and Level 2 or Level 3 when an active, traded primary market ceases to exist for that financial instrument.
A transfer between Level 2 and Level 3 occurs when the majority of the significant inputs used to determine fair value of the instrument become unobservable.
There were transfers of financial investments of 13 million from Level 1 to Level 2 during the year 2017: 154 million.
There were transfers offinancial investments of 107 million from Level 2 to Level 1 during the year 2017: 20 million.
These movements are matched exactly bytransfers of investment contract liabilities.
See note 22 e for details of movements in Level 3.
22 d : Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, classified according to fair value hierarchy The tables below present a summary of the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position according to their IFRS 9 classification, as set out in changes to accounting policies in note 4 r. The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 at January 2018.
Under the transition methods selected, comparative information is not restated.
The Group has not disclosed the fair value for financial instruments not measured at fair value because their carrying values are a reasonable approximation of fair value.
The majority of the Groups financial assets are measured using quoted market prices for identical instruments in active markets Level 1 and there has been no significant change during the year.
The assets, together with the reinsurers share of investment contract liabilities, are held to cover the liabilities for linked investment contracts net of reinsurance.
The difference between linked assets and linked liabilities is principally due to short term timing differences between policyholder premiums being received and invested in advance of policies being issued, and tax liabilities within funds which are reflected within the Groups tax liabilities.
146 Quilter Annual Report 2018 22: Fair value methodology continued 22 d : Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, classified according to fair value hierarchy continued At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 m % m % Financial assets measured at fair value Level 1 52,060 83.4% 58,357 86.5% Level 2 9,272 14.8% 7,928 11.8% 1 Level 3 1,154 1.8% 1,169 1.7% Total 62,486 100.0% 67,454 100.0% Financial liabilities measured at fair value Level 1 54,944 89.2% 57,399 85.1% Level 2 5,508 8.9% 8,911 13.2% Level 3 1,151 1.9% 1,167 1.7% Total 61,603 100.0% 67,477 100.0% 1 As at 31 December 2017 2 million has been reclassified from investments in associated undertakings to Level 3 financial assets to conform with current yearpresentation.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value Mandatorily fair value through profit or loss 51,893 9,272 1,154 62,319 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 1,671 1,671 Loans and advances 189 189 Financial investments 48,672 9,226 1,154 59,052 Cash and cash equivalents 1,361 1,361 Derivative financial instruments assets 46 46 Designated fair value through profit or loss 167 167 Financial investments 167 167 Total assets measured at fair value 52,060 9,272 1,154 62,486 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Mandatorily fair value through profit or loss 54,944 5,508 1,151 61,603 Investment contract liabilities 54,944 355 1,151 56,450 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 5,116 5,116 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 37 37 Total liabilities measured at fair value 54,944 5,508 1,151 61,603 Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 147 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 22: Fair value methodology continued 22 d : Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, classified according to fair value hierarchy continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through profit or loss 87 87 Derivative financial instruments assets 87 87 Designated fair value through profit or loss 58,357 7,841 1,169 67,367 Reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities 2,525 2,525 Loans and advances 180 180 1 Financial investments 55,240 7,841 1,169 64,250 2 Cash and cash equivalents 412 412 Total assets measured at fair value 58,357 7,928 1,169 67,454 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Held-for-trading fair value through profit or loss 433 433 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 433 433 Designated fair value through profit or loss 57,399 8,478 1,167 67,044 Investment contract liabilities 57,399 573 1,167 59,139 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 7,905 7,905 Total liabilities measured at fair value 57,399 8,911 1,167 67,477 1 As at 31 December 2017 2 million has been reclassified from investments in associated undertakings to Level 3 financial investments to conform with current year presentation.
2 As at 31 December 2017 412 million money market collective investment funds has been reclassified from amortised costs to FVTPL Level 1 to aid comparability between periods.
22 e : Level 3 fair value hierarchy disclosure The majority of the assets that are classified as Level 3 are held within linked policyholder funds.
This means that all of the investment risk associated with these assets is borne by policyholders and that the value of these assets is exactly matched by a corresponding liability duetopolicyholders.
The Group bears no risk from a change in the market value of these assets except to the extent that it has an impact onmanagement fees earned.
Also included within the assets classified as Level 3 is a shareholder investment in an unlisted equity of 3million 2017: 2 million : this is not matched by a corresponding liability and therefore any changes in market value are taken to the Groupsincome statement.
The table below reconciles the opening balance of Level 3 financial assets to the closing balance at the end of the year: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At beginning of the year 1,169 581 Total net fair value gains recognised in: profit or loss 54 23 Purchases 38 618 Sales 25 23 Transfers in 69 167 Transfers out 151 152 Foreign exchange and other - 1 Total Level 3 financial assets 1,154 1,169 Unrealised fair value gains losses relating to assets held at the year end recognised in: profit or loss 54 23 Amounts shown as sales arise principally from the sale of private company shares, unlisted pooled investments and from distributions received in respect of holdings in property funds.
Transfers into Level 3 assets for the current period comprise 69 million 2017: 167 million of stale priced assets that were previously shown within Level 2 and for which price updates have not been received for more than six months.
Transfers out of Level 3 assets in the current period comprise 151 million 2017: 152 million of stale priced assets that were not previously being repriced and that have been transferred into Level 2 as they are now actively priced.
148 Quilter Annual Report 2018 22: Fair value methodology continued 22 e : Level 3 fair value hierarchy disclosure continued The table below analyses the type of Level 3 financial assets held: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Pooled investments 86 186 Unlisted and stale price pooled investments 82 185 Suspended funds 4 1 Private equity investments 1,068 983 Total Level 3 financial assets 1,154 1,169 All of the liabilities that are classified as Level 3 are investment contract liabilities which exactly match against the Level 3 assets held in linked policyholder funds.
The table below reconciles the opening balance of Level 3 financial liabilities to the closing balance at the end of the year: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m At beginning of the year 1,167 581 Total net fair value gains recognised in: profit or loss 53 23 Purchases 38 616 Sales 25 23 Transfers in 69 167 Transfers out 151 152 Foreign exchange and other 1 Total Level 3 financial liabilities 1,151 1,167 Unrealised fair value gains losses relating to liabilities held at the year end recognised in: profit or loss 53 23 22 f : Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonable possible alternatives Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the financial asset or liability as a result of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental.
When the fair value of a financial asset or liability is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the figures shown reflect the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
The valuations of the private equity investments are performed on an asset-by-asset basis using a valuation methodology appropriate to the specific investment and in line with industry guidelines.
Private equity investments are valued at the value disclosed in the latest available set of audited financial statements or if more recent information is available from investment managers or professional valuation experts at the value of the underlying assets of the private equity investment.
Details of the valuation techniques applied to the different categories of financial instruments can be found in note 22 a above.
Management believe that in aggregate, 10% 2017: 10% change in the value of the financial asset or liability represents a reasonable possible alternative judgement in the context of the current macro-economic environment in which the Group operates.
It is therefore considered that the impact of alternative assumptions will be in the range of 115 million, both favourable and unfavourable 2017: 117 million.
As described in note 22 e above, changes in the value of Level 3 assets held within linked policyholder funds are exactly matched by corresponding changes in the value of liabilities due to policyholders and therefore have no impact on the Groups net asset value or profit or loss, except to the extent that it has an impact on management fees earned.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 149 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 22: Fair value methodology continued 22 g : Fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities not measured at fair value Certain financial instruments of the Group are not carried at fair value.
The carrying values of these are considered reasonable approximations of their respective fair values, as they are either short term in nature or are repriced to current market rates at frequent intervals.
Their classification within the fair value hierarchy would be as follows: Contract assets Level 3 Trade, other receivables, and other assets Level 3 Cash and cash equivalents Level 1 Trade, other payables, and other liabilities Level 3 Loans and advances are financial assets held at amortised cost and therefore not carried at fair value, with the exception of policyholder loans which are categorised as FVTPL.
Loans and advances held at amortised cost would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Borrowed funds are financial liabilities held at amortised cost and therefore not carried at fair value.
Borrowed funds relate to subordinated liabilities and would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
23: Structured entities 23 a : Groups involvement in structured entities Some investment vehicles are classified as structured entities because they have a narrow and well defined purpose.
In structured entities, voting rights are not the predominant factor in deciding who controls the entity but rather it is the Groups exposure to the variability of returns from these entities.
The table below summarises the types of structured entities the Group has an interest in.
These entities are not consolidated where the Group determines that it does not have control: Type of structured entity Nature Purpose Interest held by the Group Investments in collective Manage client funds through Generate fees from managing assets Investment in units issued by the investment vehicles theinvestment in assets on behalf of third-party investors vehicles Investments in collective Manage shareholder funds through Generate fees from managing Investment in units issued by investment vehicles theinvestment in assets company assets thevehicles The Groups holdings in investment vehicles are subject to the terms and conditions of the respective investment vehicles offering documentation and are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of those investment vehicles.
All of theinvestment vehicles in the investment portfolios are managed by portfolio managers who are compensated by the respective investment vehicles for their services.
Such compensation generally consists of an asset-based fee and a performance-based incentive fee, and is reflectedin the valuation of the investment vehicles.
23 b : Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group invests in unconsolidated structured entities as part of its normal investment and trading activities.
The Groups total interest in unconsolidated structured entities is classified as investments and securities held at fair value through profit or loss.
The table below provides a summary of the carrying value of the Groups interest in unconsolidated structured entities: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Financial investments 40,815 43,848 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,361 412 Total Group interest in unconsolidated structured entities 42,176 44,260 1 In the year ended 31 December 2017 money market funds of 412 million have been reclassified on the statement of financial position from Financial Investments to Cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups maximum exposure to loss with regard to the interests presented above is the carrying amount of the Groups investments.
Oncethe Group has disposed of its shares or units in a fund, it ceases to be exposed to any risk from that fund.
The Groups holdings in the above unconsolidated structured entities are largely less than 50% and as such the net asset value of these structured entities is likely to be significantly higher than their carrying value.
150 Quilter Annual Report 2018 23: Structured entities continued 23 c : Consolidation considerations for structured entities managed by the Group The Group acts as fund manager to a number of investment funds.
Determining whether the Group controls such an investment fund usually focuses on the assessment of decision making rights as fund manager, the investors rights toremove the fund manager and the aggregate economic interests of the Group in the fund in the form of interest held and exposure to variable returns.
In most instances the Groups decision making authority, in its capacity as fund manager, with regard to these funds is regarded to be well-defined.
Discretion is exercised when decisions regarding the relevant activities of these funds are being made.
For funds managed bytheGroup where the investors have the right to remove the Group as fund manager without cause, the fees earned by the Group are considered to be market related.
These agreements include only terms, conditions or amounts that are customarily present in arrangements for similar services and level of skills negotiated on an arms length basis.
The Group has concluded that it acts as agent on behalf of the investors in all instances.
The Group is considered to be acting as principal where the Group is the fund manager and is able to make the investment decisions on behalf of the unit holders and earn a variable fee, and there are no kick out rights that would remove the Group as fund manager.
There have been no changes in facts or circumstances which have changed the Groups conclusion on the consolidation of funds.
The Group has not provided any non-contractual support to any consolidated or unconsolidated structured entities.
23 d : Other interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group receives management fees and other fees in respect of its asset management businesses that manage investments in which the Group has no holding.
These also represent interests in unconsolidated structured entities.
As these investments are not held by the Group, the investment risk is borne by the external investors and therefore the Groups maximum exposure to loss relates to future management fees.
The Group does not sponsor any of the funds or investment vehicles from which it receives fees.
The table below shows the assets under management of entities that the Group manages but does not have a holding in and the fees earned from those entities: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Assets under Fees Assets under Fees management earned management earned m m m m Pooled investments Open Ended Investment Company OEIC 1 275 6 Total other interest in unconsolidated structured entities 1 275 6 24: Trade, other receivables and other assets The note analyses total trade, other receivables and other assets.
At At 31 December 31 December 2 2018 2017 Note m m Debtors arising from direct insurance business amounts owed by intermediaries 2 Debtors arising from reinsurance business 5 8 Outstanding settlements 327 307 Other receivables 94 244 Accrued interest 2 3 1 Prepayments and accrued income 34 63 Management fees 23 44 Other assets 1 30 Total trade, other receivables and other assets 486 701 Less: trade, other receivables and other assets classified as held for sale 5 f 204 Total trade, other receivables and other assets net of held for sale 486 497 To be settled within 12 months 486 469 To be settled after 12 months 28 Total trade, other receivables and other assets net of held for sale 486 497 1 In the year ended 31 December 2018 44 million has been reclassified to contract assets see note 25 b as a result of the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 on 1January 2018.
2 A number of items have been reclassified in the prior year comparatives to conform with current year presentation.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 151 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 24: Trade, other receivables and other assets continued Other receivables mainly relate to trade debtors, tax debtors and other debtors.
There have been no non-performing receivables or material impairments in the financial year that require disclosure.
Information about the Groups impairment losses on trade receivables is included in note 40 b.
None of the receivables reflected above have been subject to the renegotiation of terms.
All amounts are current, short term and interest free with the carrying amount approximating to fair value.
25: Deferred acquisition costs, contract costs and contract assets 25 a : Deferred acquisition costs and contract costs Deferred acquisition costs on insurance contracts and contract costs on investment contracts and asset management contracts relate to costs that the Group incur to obtain new business.
These acquisition costs are capitalised in the statement of financial position and are amortised in profit or loss over the life of the contracts.
The table below analyses the movements in these balances relating to insurance, investment and asset management contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs Contract costs Investment Insurance Asset Investment Asset contracts contracts management contracts management Total m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 629 17 9 655 New business 79 3 82 Amortisation 108 3 7 118 Movement shown in fee and commission 1 expenses 29 3 4 36 Foreign exchange 1 1 2 Deferred acquisition costs written off 9 9 Other movements related to discontinued 3 operations 4 4 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2017 592 14 5 611 4 Reclassification to contract costs 592 5 592 5 New business 50 1 51 Amortisation 3 97 2 102 Other movements 2 2 Movement shown in fee and commission 1 expenses 3 45 1 49 Balance at 31 December 2018 11 547 4 562 1 Changes in deferred acquisition costs and contract costs, within the fee and commission expenses note 9 a.
2 As part of the managed separation of the Old Mutual plc Group, part of the Groups DAC balance was written off in respect of a South African book of business transferred outside of the Quilter plc Group.
3 Other movements in 2017 includes 5 million of new business and 1 million of amortisation relating to discontinued operations.
4 Reclassified from deferred acquisition costs to contract costs at 1 January 2018, as a result of IFRS 15.
25 b : Contract assets Contract assets on non-insurance contracts of 44 million at 31 December 2018 were previously before the adoption of IFRS 15 known asaccrued income from contracts with customers and were disclosed within other receivables.
152 Quilter Annual Report 2018 26: Cash and cash equivalents 26 a : Analysis of net cash flows from operating activities: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 3 2018 2017 m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 321 227 Adjustments for non-cash movements in net profit for the year Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6 8 Movement on deferred acquisition costs and contract costs 49 40 Movement on deferred fee income and contract liabilities 14 24 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 46 41 Fair value movements of financial assets 3,473 4,688 Fair value movements in investment contract liabilities 4,119 3,958 Other change in investment contract liabilities 1,412 3,871 Profit on sale of subsidiaries and bargain purchase 290 83 Other movements 21 28 584 3,151 Net changes in working capital 1 Decrease increase in derivatives 353 315 Decrease increase in loans and advances 23 23 Decrease increase in provisions 6 75 2 Decrease increase in other assets liabilities 287 567 669 980 Taxation paid 92 9 Net cash flows from operating activities 144 4,349 1 The movement in derivatives primarily relates to consolidated funds as explained in note 20.
2 Working capital changes in respect of other assets and liabilities primarily relate to consolidation of funds.
3 A number of items within the 2017 comparatives have been reclassified to align with the presentation within the 2018 financial statements.
There was no impact on cash and cash equivalents resulting from these reclassifications.
26 b : Total cash and cash equivalents can be broken down as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank 550 1,036 Money market funds 1,361 412 Cash and cash equivalents in consolidated funds 484 912 Total cash and cash equivalents per statement of financial position 2,395 2,360 Cash within held for sale 147 Total cash and cash equivalents per consolidated statement of cash flows 2,395 2,507 Except for cash and cash equivalents subject to consolidation of funds of 484 million 2017: 912 million, management do not consider that there are any material amounts of cash and cash equivalents which are not available for use in the Groups day-to-day operations.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 153 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 26: Cash and cash equivalents continued 26 c : Cash flows from financing activities is further analysed below: 1 Liabilities Equity Deposits from Changes in Borrowings reinsurers equity Total For the year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Note 32 Note 33 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 782 16 1,099 1,897 Cash flows from financing activities Liability related: Finance costs 7 1 8 Proceeds from issue of subordinated and other debt 497 497 Subordinated and other debt repaid 516 516 Equity related: Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders of the Company 221 221 Proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares Cash flows from financing activities 26 1 221 248 Other changes 2 Other changes in liabilities 559 1 558 Liability related 559 1 558 Equity related 1,127 1,127 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 197 16 2,005 2,218 1 Liabilities Equity Deposits from Changes in Borrowings reinsurers equity Total For the year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Note 32 Note 33 Opening balance at 1 January 2017 839 14 992 1,845 Cash flows from financing activities Liability related: Finance costs 39 39 Subordinated and other debt repaid 57 57 Equity related: Dividends paid to ordinary equity holders of the Company 210 210 Proceeds from issue of Ordinary Shares 258 258 Cash flows from financing activities 96 48 48 Other changes Foreign exchange movements Other changes in liabilities 39 2 41 Liability related 39 2 41 Equity related 59 59 Closing balance at 31 December 2017 782 16 1,099 1,897 1 Full details of changes in equity are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
2 Other changes in liabilities in the year ended 31 December 2018 includes the 566 million receivable transferred into the Group as part of the acquisition of the Skandia Ltd group, which offsets with the corresponding payable already within the Group, as explained in note 5 a.
154 Quilter Annual Report 2018 27: Share capital and merger reserve 27 a : Share capital Financial instruments issued are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash, other financial assets or issue a variable number of own equity instruments.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as adeduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
The Parent Companys equity capital currently comprises 1,902,251,098 Ordinary Shares of 7 pence each with an aggregated nominal value of 133,157,577 2017: 130,000,257 Ordinary Shares of 100 pence each with an aggregated nominal value of 130,000,257.
This note gives details of the Companys Ordinary Share capital and shows the movements during the period: Nominal Share Number of value premium shares m m At 1 January 2017 130,000,256 130 1, 2 Issue of share capital 200,000,001 200 58 3 Reduction of share capital 200,000,000 200 At 31 December 2017 130,000,257 130 58 At 1 January 2018 130,000,257 130 58 4 Issue of share capital 1 130,000,258 130 58 5 Sub-division of Ordinary Shares of 100p each to 1p each 12,870,025,542 13,000,025,800 130 58 6 Bonus shares issued to ordinary shareholders of 1p each 315,731,886 3 13,315,757,686 133 58 7 Conversion of Ordinary Shares of 1p each to 7p each 11,413,506,588 At 31 December 2018 1,902,251,098 133 58 1 On 3 May 2017 the Company allotted and issued 200 million 1 Ordinary Shares, for a consideration of 200 million, to its now former parent Old Mutual plc.
2 On 21 December 2017 Old Mutual plc contributed 58 million to the Company in exchange for the issue of 1 share.
3 On 27 November 2017 the Company carried out a share capital reduction, which cancelled the 200 million 1 Ordinary Shares.
4 On 31 January 2018 the Company allotted and issued 1 Ordinary Share of 1.
On 6 June 2018 the Board approved a reorganisation of its share capital to enable the implementation of the Managed Separation and to ensure that existing shareholders of Old Mutual plc received one Ordinary Share for every three Ordinary Shares they hold in Old Mutual plc, as described in the Prospectus document.
The share capital reorganisation consisted of the following steps: 5 Each of the Companys existing 130,000,258 Ordinary Shares of 1.00 each was sub-divided into 100 Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each, following which the Companys share capital consisted of 13,000,025,800 Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each, with an aggregate nominal value of 130,000,258: 6 The Company allotted 315,731,886 bonus Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each to the existing shareholders of the Company with any fractional entitlements arising to be aggregated and allotted to Old Mutual plc, following which the Companys share capital consisted of 13,315,757,686 Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each, with an aggregate nominal value of 133,157,577: and 7 The Companys 13,315,757,686 Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each were consolidated into Ordinary Shares of 0.07 each with any fractional entitlements arising to be aggregated and allotted to Old Mutual plc, following which the Companys share capital consists of 1,902,251,098 Ordinary Shares of 0.07 each, with an aggregate nominal value of 133,157,577.
27 b : Merger reserve On 31 January 2018, the Group acquired the Skandia UK Ltd group of entities from its then parent company Old Mutual plc.
This comprised ofseven Old Mutual plc group entities with a net asset value of 591 million.
The transfer was effected by the issue of one share and with thebalance giving rise to a merger reserve of 591 million in the consolidated statement of financial position, being the difference between thenominal value of the share issued by the parent company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiaries and the subsidiaries net asset value.
No debt was taken on as a result of this transaction.
The most significant asset within these entities is a 566 million receivable which corresponds to an equivalent payable within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The net effect of this transaction for theGroup was to replace a payable due to Old Mutual plc with equity.
Following the acquisition the Company allotted 315,731,886 bonus Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each to the existing shareholders of the Company with any fractional entitlements arising to be aggregated and allotted to Old Mutual plc, with a total nominal value of 3 million.
This had the effect of reducing the merger reserve by 3 million to 588 million at 31 December 2018.
This transaction attracted merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 155 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 28: Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2018 and the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group participated in a number of Old Mutual plc and Quilter plc share-based payment arrangements.
This note describes the nature of the plans and how the share options and awards are valued.
28 a : Arrangements in place from 25 June 2018 onwards The Group created four new share-based payment schemes with awards over Quilter plc shares which came into force on 25 June 2018: the Quilter plc Performance Share Plan, the Quilter plc Share Reward Plan, the Quilter plc Share Incentive Plan, and the Quilter plc Sharesave Plan.
The Old Mutual Wealth Joint Share Ownership Plan, the Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan and the Old Mutual plc Managed Separation Incentive Plan were awards over Old Mutual plc shares or, in the case of the Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan, notional Old Mutual plc shares.
These share-based payment schemes were transferred to awards over Quilter plc shares on 25 June 2018 andcontinue to the original vesting dates.
Description of award Vesting conditions Contractual Typical Restricted Conditional Dividend life service Performance 1 Scheme shares shares Options Other entitlement years years measure Quilter plc Performance Share Plan AP EPS 2 3 Share Options Nil cost options CAGR and Relative Total Shareholder Up to 10 3 Return Quilter plc Performance Share Plan Conduct, Risk & Conditional Shares Not less Compliance than 3 3 Underpins Quilter plc Share Reward Plan Typically Conditional Shares 3 3 Quilter plc Share Incentive Plan Not less Restricted Shares than 3 2 4 Quilter plc Sharesave Plan 3 5 3 & 5 Old Mutual Wealth Joint Share Ownership Plan 5 Jointly Owned Restricted Shares 3 3 Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan Typically 6 Conditional Shares 3 3 Old Mutual plc Managed Separation Incentive Targets in Plan Share Options Nil cost options respect of Managed Separation Up to 10 completion 1 Participants are entitled to actual dividends for the Joint Share Ownership Plan Restricted Shares and the Share Incentive Plan.
For all other schemes participants are entitled to dividend equivalents.
2 The EPS element of options granted under the Performance Share Plan are subject to a performance period commencing 1 January 2018, and with a grant date of 25 June 2018.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the cost of the EPS element of the award is recognised from the start of the performance period until the date upon which the options are expected to vest.
3 Adjusted Profit compound annual growth rate CAGR.
4 The Quilter plc Sharesave Plan is linked to a savings plan.
5 The Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP was implemented for certain key employees of the Group in 2013, with the final grant of awards in 2016.
It provided participants with an interest in the capital growth of the Company by granting joint ownership of shares in Old Mutual Wealth Management Ltd now Quilter plc with an employee benefit trust EBT, whereby the trust owned the principal value of the shares and the participants owned any growth in value during thevesting period.
Upon the demerger and Listing of Quilter plc, the trust exercised a call option to acquire the participants interest in the shares based on the growth in value of the Company between grant and Listing, in return for consideration shares in Quilter plc.
The consideration shares for any awards that remain unvested are restricted until the normal vesting date, and attract dividends during that time.
6 Awards granted under the Phantom Share Reward Plan prior to the demerger of Quilter plc were made over notional Ordinary Shares in Old Mutual plc that were settled in cash on the vesting date.
Upon the demerger and Listing of Quilter plc, all unvested notional share awards were converted to conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in Quilter plc, which will be settled in Quilter plc shares on the normal vesting dates.
156 Quilter Annual Report 2018 28: Share-based payments continued 28 b : Arrangements in place up to 25 June 2018 onwards The share-based payment schemes listed below were all awards over Old Mutual plc shares or, in the case of the Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan, notional Old Mutual plc shares.
The majority of these share-based payment schemes were subject to early vesting or exercise, apart from the Old Mutual plc and Old Mutual Wealth schemes listed in note 28 a above.
Description of award Vesting conditions Contractual Typical Restricted Conditional Dividend life service Performance Scheme shares shares Options Other entitlement years years measure Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Restricted Shares 1-3 Old Mutual plc Performance Share Plan Target growth Share Options Nil cost options Not less in EPS Up to 10 than 3 and ROE 1 Old Mutual plc 2008 Sharesave Plan 3 5 3 & 5 Old Mutual Wealth Joint Share Ownership Plan Jointly Owned Restricted Shares 3 3 Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan Conditional Shares Typically 3 3 Old Mutual plc Managed Separation Incentive Targets in Plan Share Options Nil cost options respect of Managed Separation Up to 10 completion 1 Sharesave scheme linked to a savings plan.
28 c : Reconciliation of movements in options The movement in the options outstanding under these arrangements during the period is detailed below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Options over shares Number of exercise Number of exercise London Stock Exchange options price options price Outstanding at beginning of the period 7,622,956 1.60 10,250,582 1.60 Granted during the period 2,824,136 Forfeited during the period 2,252,333 1.60 284,093 1.62 Exercised during the period 5,578,539 1.60 1,819,897 1.61 Expired during the period 5,967 1.60 39,892 Cancelled during the period 141,289 1.60 510,560 Other transfers during the period 26,816 Outstanding at end of the period 2,468,964 7,622,956 1.60 Exercisable at end of the period 104,204 1.61 The amount outstanding at the end of the period for 2018 and 2017 includes an amount for employees who have transferred into out of Quilter plc from to other Old Mutual divisions.
The weighted average fair value of options at the measurement date, for options granted during the year ended 31 December 2018, was 1.24.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 have an exercise price of nil, as they are all nil cost options 2017: 1.28 to 1.87 andaweighted average remaining contractual life of 2.7 years 2017: 1.1 years.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 157 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 28: Share-based payments continued 28 d : Measurements and assumptions In determining the fair value of equity-settled share-based awards and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions about future events and market conditions.
Specifically, management makes estimates of the likely number of shares that will vest and the fair value of each award granted which is valued and locked in at the grant date.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
Theestimate of fair value of share options granted is measured using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo simulation.
The inputs used in the measurement of fair values at the grant date for awards granted during 2018 were as follows: Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average Weighted average average average share average expected risk free expected Expected price expected life interest dividend forfeitures Scheme volatility years rate yield per annum Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan Conditional Shares 1.52 24.8% 1.85 0.7% 0.0% 4% Quilter plc Share Incentive Plan Restricted Shares 1.53 24.3% 2.00 0.7% 0.0% 10% Quilter plc Performance Share Plan Share Options Nil cost options 1.52 29.5% 2.75 0.8% 0.0% 4% Quilter plc Performance Share Plan Conditional Shares 1.41 29.2% 2.93 0.8% 0.0% 4% 28 e : Forfeitable Restricted Conditional Share grants The following summarises the fair value of Restricted Shares and Conditional Shares granted by the Group during the year: Weighted Number average Instruments granted during the period granted fair value Quilter plc Share Incentive Plan Restricted Shares 2018 5,202,140 1.53 Quilter plc Performance Share Plan Conditional Shares 2018 5,928,616 1.41 Old Mutual Wealth Phantom Share Reward Plan Conditional Shares 2018 6,474,853 1.52 Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Restricted Shares 2017 1,890,693 2.18 28 f : Financial impact The total expense recognised for the period arising from equity compensation plans was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m 1 Expense arising from equity-settled share and share option plans continuing operations 26 17 Expense arising from cash-settled share and share option plans continuing operations 3 4 1 Expense arising from equity-settled share and share option plans discontinued operations 1 1 Total expense arising from share option plans 30 22 2017 comparatives have been reclassified consistent with note 11 a Staff costs.
28 g : JSOP Employee Benefit Trust JSOP EBT On 22 December 2017 the JSOP EBT, which was set up for the benefit of the Group employees, was transferred to the Group from Old Mutual plc.
As a result of this transfer, on consolidation the Groups equity was reduced by 99 million, representing the value of Company shares held within the trust, which are recognised as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
The JSOP EBT held 72 million Quilter plc shares at the point of the Quilter plc Listing on 25 June 2018.
Following the Listing of Quilter plc, a number of the shares were transferred out of the JSOP EBT into a new Quilter Employee Benefit Trust to be used to support not only the JSOP but also other existing and future share scheme obligations.
As at 31 December 2018 the JSOP EBT did not hold any Quilter plc shares.
158 Quilter Annual Report 2018 29: Insurance and investment contract liabilities The following is a summary of the Groups insurance and investment contract provisions and related reinsurance assets: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Note m m m m m m Life assurance policyholder liabilities Long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities Life assurance policyholder liabilities 29 a 588 478 110 480 375 105 Outstanding claims 14 13 1 9 8 1 602 491 111 489 383 106 Investment contract liabilities Unit-linked investment contracts 29 d 56,450 1,671 54,779 59,139 2,525 56,614 Total life assurance policyholder liabilities 57,052 2,162 54,890 59,628 2,908 56,720 29 a : Insurance contract liabilities Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of life assurance policyholder liabilities, other than outstanding claims, are set out below: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net Note m m m m m m Carrying amount at 1 January 480 375 105 402 290 112 Impact of new business 2 10 8 42 55 13 Impact of experience effects 38 26 12 30 23 7 Impact of assumption changes 69 68 1 7 7 Other movements 1 1 1 1 Movement shown in consolidated income statement 29 b 108 103 5 78 85 7 Total insurance contract life assurance policyholder liabilities 588 478 110 480 375 105 29 b : Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Claims and benefits paid 87 76 Reinsurance recoveries 59 54 Net insurance claims and benefits incurred 28 22 Change in reinsurance assets and liabilities 29 a 103 85 Change in insurance contract liabilities 29 a 108 78 Insurance contract claims and change in liabilities 33 15 A presentational change has been made to the face of the consolidated income statement from the prior year.
Details of the breakdown ofinsurance and investment expense, which were previously shown on the face of the income statement, are now included in this note.
29 c : Assumptions life assurance The key assumptions considered are mortality morbidity rates, maintenance expenses, interest rates, persistency rates and maintenance expense inflation.
These assumptions are based on market data and internal experience data.
External data is also used where either no internal experience data exists or where internal data is too sparse to give credible estimates of the true expectation of experience.
Anticipatedfuture trends have been allowed for in deriving mortality and morbidity assumptions.
The liabilities for non-linked contracts have been calculated using a gross premium discounted cash flow approach on a policy by policy basis, using the following assumptions: Mortality morbidity Interest rates Class of business 2018 2017 2018 2017 Non-linked protection business Based on relevant CMI tables Risk reinsurance rates 1 pre 1 January 2013 1.724% 1.610% Non-linked protection business Based on relevant CMI tables Risk reinsurance rates 1 post 31 December 2012 1.378% 1.287% Pension annuity payment 100% PA92 C2030 ult.
projected using the long-term cohort basis 1.420% 1.330% 1 On 1 January 2013 the discount rate was impacted by Finance Act 2012 amendments to the life tax rules.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 159 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 29: Insurance and investment contract liabilities continued 29 c : Assumptions life assurance The Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI, supported by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries IFoA, provides mortality and sickness rate tables for UK life insurers and pension funds.
The interest rate assumption is set with reference to a matching portfolio of gilts.
During 2017, a modification was made to achieve a better match of the IFRS liabilities to available gilts.
In aggregate, the non-linked protection business is expected to generate net income over the next 3 years.
This net income has been excluded from the matching exercise and has instead been discounted using Bank of England forward rates of the relevant durations.
Liabilities after these three years are matched and the rates provided above are used.
For non-linked contracts defined as insurance contracts under IFRS 4, the margin of prudence for the individual assumptions is generally taken as the 60% confidence interval over a one-year timeframe so that, broadly speaking, in 100 scenarios the reserves are expected to cover the liabilities in 60 of those scenarios.
Overall, the level of confidence is likely to be greater than 60% on the basis that these margins are applied to several assumptions at the same time and prudence is applied to all future years.
The liability values do not make allowance for the amortisation of the DAC asset.
A separate liability adequacy test is carried out on best estimate assumptions allowing for all of the cash flows used to derive the liability values and the run-off of the DAC.
Impact of assumption changes Assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis and updated as appropriate.
The impact of the assumption changes on annual IFRS profit areasfollows: Impact on Impact on IFRS reported IFRS reported profit before Impact of profit after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance 2018 m m m Assumption Mortality morbidity rates 86.5 81.4 5.1 Maintenance expense 1.9 1.9 Maintenance expense inflation 0.1 0.1 Interest rates 21.3 18.4 2.9 Persistency rates 5.4 4.6 0.8 68.6 67.6 1.0 Impact on Impact on IFRS reported IFRS reported profit before Impact of profit after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance 2017 m m m Assumption Mortality morbidity rates 10.1 10.7 0.6 Maintenance expense 3.1 0.1 3.0 Maintenance expense inflation 0.3 0.3 Interest rates 15.1 13.0 2.1 Persistency rates 5.0 4.8 0.2 6.6 7.0 0.4 The sensitivity of IFRS profit before tax to variations in key assumptions are shown below: 2018 2017 10% -10% 10% -10% Decrease Increase in IFRS profit before tax m m m m Mortality morbidity rates 3.3 3.4 3.0 3.1 Maintenance expenses 2.2 2.2 2.6 2.6 Persistency rates 2.6 2.8 2.4 2.6 The values have, in all cases, been determined by varying the relevant assumption as at the reporting date and considering the consequential impact assuming other assumptions remain unchanged.
160 Quilter Annual Report 2018 29: Insurance and investment contract liabilities continued 29 d : Unit-linked investment contract liabilities Movements in the amounts outstanding in respect of unit-linked and other investment contracts are set out below: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Carrying amount at 1 January 59,139 2,525 56,614 51,265 2,560 48,705 Fair value movements 4,119 78 4,041 3,958 330 3,628 Investment income 805 805 680 680 Movements arising from investment return 3,314 78 3,236 4,638 330 4,308 Contributions received 7,117 774 7,891 9,718 365 10,083 Maturities 183 183 220 220 Withdrawals and surrenders 6,091 6,091 5,682 5,682 Claims and benefits 234 234 217 217 Other movements 2 2 408 408 Change in liability 2,707 854 1,853 7,829 35 7,864 Currency translation gain loss 18 18 45 45 Total unit-linked investment contract policyholder liabilities 56,450 1,671 54,779 59,139 2,525 56,614 For unit-linked investment contracts, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact onprofit.
The benefits offered under the unit-linked investment contracts are based on the risk appetite of policyholders and the return on their selected investments and collective fund investments, whose underlying investments include equities, debt securities, property and derivatives.
This investment mix is unique to individual policyholders.
The maturity value of these financial liabilities is determined by the fair value of the linked assets at maturity date.
There will be no difference between the carrying amount and the maturity amount at maturity date.
The reinsurers share of policyholder liabilities relating to investment contract liabilities of 1,671 million 2017: 2,525 million were rated according to the table in note 40.
None of these were past due as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
29 e : Methodology and assumptions investment contracts For unit-linked business, the unit liabilities are determined as the value of units credited to policyholders.
Since these liabilities are determined on a retrospective basis no assumptions for future experience are required.
Assumptions for future experience are required for unit-linked business in assessing whether the total of the contract costs asset and contract liability is greater than the present value of future profits expected to arise on the relevant blocks of business the recoverability test.
If this is the case, then the contract costs asset is restricted totherecoverable amount.
For linked contracts, the assumptions are on a best estimate basis.
30: Provisions Sale of Compensation Single Strategy provisions business Other Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Balance at beginning of the period 82 22 104 Additions from business combinations 1 1 Charge to income statement 11 25 3 39 Utilised during the period 31 5 5 41 Unused amounts reversed 4 1 5 Reclassification within Statement of Financial Position 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2018 54 20 20 94 Sale of Compensation Single Strategy provisions business Other Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Balance at beginning of the year 13 16 29 Charge to income statement Voluntary remediation 69 69 Charge to income statement Other 7 6 13 Utilised during the year 5 5 10 Foreign exchange and other movements 2 5 3 Balance at 31 December 2017 82 22 104 Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 161 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 30: Provisions continued Compensation provisions Compensation provisions totalled 54 million 31 December 2017: 82 million.
Voluntary client remediation provision During 2017, as part of ongoing work to promote fair customer outcomes, the Group conducted product reviews consistent with the recommendations from the FCAs thematic feedback and the FCAs guidance FG16 8 Fair treatment of long-standing customers in the life insurance sector.
Following these reviews, the Group decided to commence voluntary remediation to customers of certain legacy products, establishing a provision in 2017 for 69 million.
The redress relates to early encashment charges and contribution servicing charges made on pension products and, following the re-introduction of annual reviews, compensation payable to a subset of protection plan holders.
During 2018, 27 million has been utilised against programme costs and pension remediation incurred.
There was also a 4 million reclassification to liabilities for linked investment contracts, reflecting the capping of early encashment charges on live pension plans.
The remaining provision includes 6 million of programme costs and 7 million of estimated interest.
Of the total provision outstanding, 20 million is estimated to be payable after one year.
Estimates and assumptions Key assumptions in relation to the calculation are: investment return used within the protection remediation calculations: timing of protection customer remediation: and the programme costs of carrying out the remediation activity.
The model used to calculate the costs of protection remediation assumes a generic annual investment return across the population of plans inscope.
A sensitivity analysis has been calculated to determine the impact of adjusting the return rate.
The current model assumes protection customers will be compensated within a certain timeframe.
Delays to the programme and more specifically, in locating customers and resolving complicated plan arrangements will increase the final cost of remediation.
The programme costs of conducting the remediation activity are highly variable and are subject to a number of uncertainties.
In calculating thebest estimate of these costs, consideration has been given to such matters as the identification of impacted customers, likelihood of thecustomer contesting the offer, the complexity of the calculations, the level of quality assurance and checking, the ease of contacting and communicating with customers and the level of customer interactions.
As a result of these uncertainties, the current provision for programme costs has been calculated as falling within a range of approximately 5 million to 7 million.
Sensitivities relating to the assumptions and uncertainties are provided in the table below: Consequential change in provision Assumption estimate Change in assumption estimate m Modelled investment return - 2% - 0.2 Timing of protection remediation 12-month delay 2.0 Compensation provision other The other compensation provision includes amounts relating to the cost of correcting deficiencies in policy administration systems, including restatements and clawbacks, any associated litigation costs and the related costs to compensate previous or existing policyholders.
This provision represents best estimates based upon managements view of expected outcomes based upon previous experience.
Due to the nature of the provision, the timing of the expected cash outflows is uncertain.
Estimates are reviewed annually and adjusted as appropriate fornew circumstances.
Sale of Single Strategy Asset Management business A restructuring provision was recognised as a result of the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business to enable the remaining Quilter Investors business to function as a standalone operation going forward.
The provision includes those costs directly related to replacing and restoring the operational capability that previously underpinned and supported both parts of the asset management business.
Key parts of this capability had either been disposed of or disrupted as a consequence of the sale.
The total provision established in the year was 19million, of which 5 million has now been utilised.
The carried forward provision at 31 December 2018 is 14 million.
Further provisions maybe established as the project progresses.
Additional provisions totalling 6 million have been made as a consequence of the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business.
These have been made in relation to various sale related future commitments, the outcome of which was uncertain at the time of the sale and the most significant of which is in relation to the guarantee of revenues in future years.
162 Quilter Annual Report 2018 30: Provisions continued Other provisions Other provisions include amounts for the resolution of legal uncertainties and the settlement of other claims raised by contracting parties, property dilapidation provisions and indemnity commission provisions.
Where material, provisions and accruals are discounted at discount rates specific to the risks inherent in the liability.
The timing and final amounts of payments in respect of some of the provisions, particularly those in respect of litigation claims and similar actions against the Group, are uncertain and could result in adjustments to the amounts recorded.
Of the other provisions recorded above, 5 million 2017: 10 million is estimated to be payable after one year.
31: Tax assets and liabilities Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences at the tax rate applicable to the jurisdiction in which the timing differencesarise.
Deferred tax summary At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Deferred tax assets 38 31 Less: amounts classified as held for sale 5 f 9 Deferred tax assets 38 22 Deferred tax liabilities 59 190 Net deferred tax liability 21 168 31 a : Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable, being where on the basis of all available evidence it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the reversal of the deferred tax asset can be deducted.
The movement on the recognised deferred tax assets account is as follows: Income At statement Acquisition At end beginning charge disposal of of the of the year credit subsidiaries year Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Tax losses carried forward 6 13 19 Accelerated depreciation 17 4 13 Other temporary differences 4 4 Share-based payments 2 2 4 Contract liabilities 3 1 2 Deferred expenses 24 11 35 Netted against liabilities 34 5 39 Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2018 22 16 38 Income At statement Acquisition At end beginning charge disposal of of the 1 of the year credit subsidiaries year Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Tax losses carried forward 6 6 Accelerated depreciation 17 17 Other temporary differences 9 2 3 4 Share-based payments 2 2 Contract liabilities 4 1 3 Deferred expenses 27 3 24 Netted against liabilities 38 4 34 Deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 8 17 3 22 1 5 million has been reclassified from acquisition disposal of subsidiaries to income statement movements, to conform with current year presentation.
Closing deferred tax assets are unchanged.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 163 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 31: Tax assets and liabilities continued 31 a : Deferred tax assets continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets The amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised comprise: At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017 Gross Gross amount Tax amount Tax m m m m Expiring in less than a year Expiring between one and five years Expiring after five years 663 112 471 80 Unrelieved tax losses 663 112 471 80 Accelerated capital allowances 93 16 108 18 Other timing differences 285 49 269 46 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 1,041 177 848 144 Movements in unrecognised deferred tax assets The unrelieved tax losses have increased by 192 million during the year which is mainly as a result of the reclassification of capital losses previously shown in Other timing differences that have now crystallised.
Other timing differences have increased due to the net impact of thereclassification of capital losses as described above and the addition of previously unrecognised assets on the acquisition of Skandia UK Limited under Managed Separation.
31 b : Deferred tax liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities account is as follows: Income At statement Acquisition At end beginning credit disposal of of the of the year charge subsidiaries year Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m Deferred acquisition costs 15 4 11 Other acquired intangibles 41 8 7 40 Other temporary differences 1 1 Investment gains 167 121 46 Netted against assets 34 5 39 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2018 190 138 7 59 Income At statement Acquisition At end beginning credit disposal of of the of the year charge subsidiaries year Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Deferred acquisition costs 20 5 15 Other acquired intangibles 49 8 41 Other temporary differences 2 1 1 Investment gains 146 21 167 Netted against assets 38 4 34 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2017 179 11 190 31 c : Current tax receivables and liabilities Current tax receivables and current tax liabilities at 31 December 2018 were 47 million 2017: nil and 5 million 2017: 38 million, excluding amounts classified as held for sale in 2017 see note 5 f. 32: Borrowings The following table analyses the Groups borrowed funds, repayable on demand and categorised in terms of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as Financial liabilities amortised cost.
All amounts outstanding at 31 December 2018 are payable to a number of relationship banks.
All amounts outstanding at 31 December 2017 were payable either to the Groups previous ultimate Parent Company, Old Mutual plc, or to other related entities within the Old Mutual plc group.
164 Quilter Annual Report 2018 32: Borrowings continued At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Subordinated debt 1 Fixed rate loan at 5.50% 566 2 Fixed rate loan at 4.478% 197 Other borrowed funds 3 Floating rate loan at 6-month LIBOR 0.25% 93 4 Floating rate loan at 3-month LIBOR 0.10% 80 5 Fixed rate loan at 3.125% 43 Total borrowings 197 782 1 Commenced on 25 February 2015 and was used to finance the acquisition of the Quilter Cheviot group.
2 Commenced on 28 February 2018 and used for general corporate purposes.
3 Commenced during 2014 and was used to finance the acquisition of Intrinsic Financial Services Limited.
4 Commenced in 2011 and was used to finance other historical corporate activity.
5 Commenced on 21 June 2016 and was used to finance one of the Groups employee benefit trusts.
On 23 February 2018, the Group entered into and fully drew down the New Term Loan, a 300 million senior unsecured term loan with five relationship banks with an annual coupon of 45 basis points above LIBOR, to be updated every three months.
The New Term Loan was repaid in full using proceeds from the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business following the completion of the transaction in June 2018.
On 28 February 2018, the Group issued a 200 million subordinated debt security in the form of a 10-year Tier 2 bond with a one-time issuer call option after five years to J. P. Morgan Securities plc, paying a semi-annual coupon of 4.478% the Tier 2 Bond.
The bond was remarketed andsold to the secondary market in full on 13 April 2018.
It is now listed and regulated under the terms of the London Stock Exchange.
Inaddition, the Group entered into a 125 million revolving credit facility which remains undrawn and is being held for contingent funding purposes.
As part of a series of internal transactions, 566 million of intercompany indebtedness to other companies within the Old Mutual plc group was equitised, with the effect of the intercompany indebtedness being cancelled and replaced with equity in the form of share capital and a merger reserve.
The overall indebtedness also reduced by 16 million from ordinary course transactions.
The remaining 200 million intercompany indebtedness was repaid in full from the new facilities referred to above and from existing cash resources on 28 February 2018.
On the same date, the 70 million revolving credit facility with Old Mutual plc was cancelled.
Borrowings at 31 December 2017 were borrowed from Old Mutual plc and were unsecured and were repayable on demand.
Thecarrying amount approximates to fair value which is valued as the principal amount repayable.
33: Trade, other payables and other liabilities At At 31 December 31 December 2 2018 2017 m m Claims outstanding 226 283 Amounts owed to intermediaries 22 50 1 Amounts payable on direct insurance business 248 333 1 Deposits received from reinsurers 16 16 Accounts payable on reinsurance business 8 6 Outstanding settlements 386 708 Accruals and deferred income 147 250 Trade creditors 33 38 Deferred consideration 37 35 Other liabilities 124 131 Total trade, other payables and other liabilities 999 1,517 Less: Trade, other payables and other liabilities classified as held for sale 186 Total trade, other payables and other liabilities net of held for sale 999 1,331 To be settled within 12 months 981 1,295 To be settled after 12 months 18 36 Total trade, other payables and other liabilities net of held for sale 999 1,331 1 Deposits received from reinsurers was included within the direct insurance business category previously.
2 A number of items have been reclassified in the prior year comparatives to conform with current yearpresentation.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 165 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 34: Contract liabilities and deferred revenue Prior to the implementation of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, contract liabilities were classified as deferred revenue.
Deferred revenue relates to non-refundable front-end fee income, comprising fees received at inception or receivable over an initial period for services not yet provided, and is deferred through the creation of a deferred revenue liability on the statement of financial position and released to income as the services are provided.
Equal service provision is assumed over the lifetime of the contract and, as such, the deferred revenue is amortised onalinear basis over the expected life of the contract, adjusted for expected persistency.
The deferred revenue principally comprises fee income already received in cash.
The table below analyses the movements in contract liabilities since 31 December 2017 and deferred revenue prior to 1 January 2018.
Life and Savings Asset Management Deferred Contract Deferred Contract revenue liabilities revenue liabilities Total m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 255 6 261 Fees and commission income deferred 16 1 17 Amortisation 33 5 38 Foreign exchange 7 7 1 Deferred revenue written off 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2017 242 2 244 2 Reclassification to contract liabilities 242 242 2 2 Fees and commission income deferred 10 10 Amortisation 23 1 24 Foreign exchange 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2018 225 1 226 1 As part of the managed separation of the Old Mutual plc Group, part of the Groups DFI balance was written off in respect of a South African book of business transferred outside of the Quilter plc group.
2 Reclassified as a result of IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018.
At 31 December 2018 m 3 The Group expects to recognise the above contract liability balances as revenue in the following years : Within one year 27 One to five years 78 More than five years 121 Balance at 31 December 2018 226 3 The Group has initially applied IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018, using the cumulative effect method under which the comparative information is not restated.
35: Post-employment benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, the Channel Islands and Ireland.
Defined contribution pension schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The schemes require contributions to be made to funds held in trust, separate from the assets of the Group.
Participants receive either a monthly pension supplement to their salaries or contributions to personal pension plans.
For the defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension schemes.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in current service cost in the consolidated income statement as staff costs and other employee-related costs when they are due.
Defined benefit schemes The Group operates two defined benefit schemes: The Quilter Cheviot Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme and the Quilter Cheviot Channel Islands Retirement Benefits Scheme which are both closed to new members.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension costs and contributions relating to defined benefit schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Actuarial advice confirms that the current level of contributions payable to each pension scheme, together with existing assets, are adequate to secure members benefits over the remaining service lives of participating employees.
The schemes are reviewed at least on a triennial basis or in accordance with local practice and regulations.
In the intervening years the actuary reviews the continuing appropriateness of the assumptions applied.
166 Quilter Annual Report 2018 35: Post-employment benefits continued The Group has considered the requirements of IFRIC 14, including whether the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus that may exist at the conclusion of the schemes.
This includes a scenario where the schemes liabilities are gradually settled over time until all members have left the schemes i. e. on the death of the last beneficiary, along with all other potential outcomes for the schemes.
The Group has concluded that it does not have an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus that may exist under these circumstances, and in accordance with IFRIC 14 has not recognised the current surplus as an asset within the statement of financial position.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits disclosures This note gives full IAS 19 Employee Benefits disclosures for the above schemes.
35 a : Liability for defined benefit obligations The IAS 19 value of the assets and the scheme obligations are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Changes in retirement benefit obligations Total IAS 19 retirement benefit obligation at 1 January 48 52 Interest cost on benefit obligation 1 3 Effect of changes in actuarial assumptions 1 1 Actuarial gains 1 Benefits paid 3 6 Total IAS 19 retirement benefit obligations at period end 44 48 Change in plan assets Total IAS 19 fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 61 62 Actual return on plan assets 3 4 Company contributions 1 1 Benefits paid 3 6 Total IAS 19 fair value of scheme assets at period end 56 61 Net IAS 19 asset liability recognised in statement of financial position Funded status of plan 12 13 Unrecognised assets 12 13 Net IAS 19 amount recognised in statement of financial position 35 b : Income expense recognised in the income statement The total pension charge to staff costs for all of the Groups defined benefit schemes for the year ended 2018 was nil 2017: nil.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of the limit to the pension asset under IAS 19 Employee Benefits paragraph 58 have been reported inother comprehensive income.
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income is 26 million 2017: 25 million.
Assumptions The expected long-term rate of return on assets represents the Groups best estimate of the long-term return on the scheme assets and generally was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the different asset classes, based on the target asset allocations.
The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and expenses paid by the plan or market conditions.
The Group, in consultation with its independent investment consultants and actuaries, determined the asset allocation targets based on its assessment of business and financial conditions, demographic and actuarial data, funding characteristics and related risk factors.
Other relevant factors, including industry practices, long-term historical and prospective capital market returns, were also considered.
The scheme return objectives provide long-term measures for monitoring the investment performance against growth in the pension obligations.
The overall allocation is expected to help protect the plans funded status while generating sufficiently stable real returns netofinflation to help cover current and future benefit payments.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 167 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 35: Post-employment benefits continued 35 b : Income expense recognised in the income statement continued Both the equity and fixed income portions of the asset allocation use a combination of active and passive investment strategies and different investment styles.
The fixed income asset allocation consists of longer duration fixed income securities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better correlate assets with obligations.
The longer duration fixed income allocation is expected to help stabilise plan contributions over the long run.
The following table presents the principal actuarial assumptions at the end of the reporting period: 2018 2017 % % Discount rate 2.9 2.5 Rate of increase in defined benefit funds 3.6 3.8 Inflation 3.3 3.2 The mortality assumptions used give the following life expectancy at 65: Life expectancy at 65 for Life expectancy at 65 for male member currently female member currently Mortality table Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 31 December 2018 S2PA Light 23.30 24.90 24.30 26.10 31 December 2017 S2PA Light 22.30 23.60 23.30 24.70 Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, inflation rate and rate of mortality.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the defined benefit obligations are described below.
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the principal actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Discount rate 0.1% movement 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Inflation rate 0.1% movement 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 Rate of mortality increase by 1 year 1.5 1.7 35 c : Scheme assets allocation Scheme assets are stated at their fair values.
Total scheme assets are comprised as follows: At At At At 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 % % m m Equity securities 21 39 12 24 Debt securities 77 61 43 37 Cash and other assets 2 1 Total IAS 19 fair value of scheme assets 100 100 56 61 36: Master netting or similar agreements The Group offsets financial assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position when it has a legal enforceable right to do so and intends to settle on a net basis simultaneously.
Currently, the only such offsetting within the Group relates to the pooling of bank accounts and, in some circumstances a bank account may be overdrawn and therefore offset.
168 Quilter Annual Report 2018 36: Master netting or similar agreements continued The following tables present information on the potential effect of netting offset arrangements after taking into consideration these types ofagreements.
Related amounts available Amounts Net amounts for future set off offset in the reported in statement the statement Collateral Gross of financial of financial Master netting received amounts position position agreement pledged Net At 31 December 2018 m m m m m amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,419 24 2,395 2,395 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to bank depositors 24 24 Related amounts available Amounts Net amounts for future set off offset in the reported in statement the statement Collateral Gross of financial of financial Master netting received amounts position position agreement pledged Net At 31 December 2017 m m m m m amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,415 55 2,360 2,360 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to bank depositors 55 55 1 This represents the amounts that could be offset in the event of default.
These arrangements are typically governed by master netting and collateral arrangements.
37: Contingent liabilities The Group, in the ordinary course of business, enters into transactions that expose it to tax, legal and business risks.
The Group recognises a provision when it has a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made see note 30.
Possible obligations and known liabilities where no reliable estimate can be made or it is considered improbable that an outflow would result are reported as contingent liabilities in accordance with IAS37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Tax The Revenue authorities in the principal jurisdictions in which the Group operates routinely review historical transactions undertaken and taxlaw interpretations made by the Group.
The Group is committed to conducting its tax affairs in accordance with the tax legislation of the jurisdictions in which they operate.
All interpretations made by management are made with reference to the specific facts and circumstances of the transaction and the relevant legislation.
There are occasions where the Groups interpretation of tax law may be challenged by the Revenue authorities.
The financial statements include provisions that reflect the Groups assessment of liabilities which might reasonably be expected to materialise as part of their review.
The Board is satisfied that adequate provisions have been made to cater for the resolution of tax uncertainties and that the resources required to fund such potential settlements are sufficient.
Due to the level of estimation required in determining tax provisions amounts, eventually payable may differ from the provision recognised.
Complaints and disputes The Group is committed to treating customers fairly and supporting its customers in meeting their lifetime goals.
The Group does from time totime receive complaints, claims and have commercial disputes with service providers, in the normal course of business.
The costs, including legal costs, of these issues as they arise can be significant and where appropriate, provisions have been established under IAS 37.
Contingent liabilities acquisitions and disposals The Group routinely monitors and reassesses contingent liabilities arising from matters such as litigation, warranties and indemnities relating to past acquisitions and disposals.
These are not expected to result in any material provisions.
38: Commitments The Group has contractual commitments in respect of funding arrangements and leases which will be payable in future periods.
These commitments are not recognised on the Groups statement of financial position at the year end but are disclosed to give an indication of the Groups future committed cash flows.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 169 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 39: Operating lease arrangements The Group has entered into commercial non-cancellable leases on certain property, plant and equipment where it is not in the best interest ofthe Group to purchase these assets.
Such leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the leased asset.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the leasee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Within one year 15 14 Between one and five years 40 37 After five years 43 42 Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 98 93 40: Capital and financial risk management 40 a : Capital management The Group manages its capital with a focus on capital efficiency and effective risk management.
The capital objectives are to maintain the Groups ability to continue as a going concern while supporting the optimisation of return relative to the risks.
The Group ensures that it can meet its expected capital and financing needs at all times having regard to the Groups business plans, forecasts and strategic initiatives and regulatory requirements in all businesses in the Group.
The Groups overall capital risk appetite is set with reference to the requirements of the relevant stakeholders and seeks to: maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to support stakeholder requirements: optimise debt to equity structure to enhance shareholder returns: and retain financial flexibility by maintaining liquidity including unutilised committed credit lines.
The primary sources of capital used by the Group are equity shareholders funds and subordinated debt.
Alternative resources are utilised where appropriate.
Risk appetite has been defined for the level of capital, liquidity and debt within the Group.
The risk appetite includes long term targets, early warning thresholds and risk appetite limits.
The dividend policy sets out the target dividend level in relation to profits.
The regulatory capital for the Group is assessed under Solvency II requirements.
40 a i : Regulatory capital Solvency II is the European Union solvency regime for insurance undertakings and insurance groups which came into force on 1 January 2016.
The Group is subject to Solvency II group supervision by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The Group is required to measure and monitor its capital resources under the Solvency II regulatory regime.
The Groups insurance undertakings are included in the Group solvency calculation on a Solvency II basis.
Other regulated entities are included in the Group solvency calculation according to the relevant sectoral rules.
The Groups Solvency II surplus is the amount by which the Groups capital on a Solvency II basis own funds exceeds the Solvency II capital requirement the Solvency Capital Requirement or SCR.
The Groups Solvency II surplus is 1,058 million at 31 December 2018 2017: 651 million, representing a Solvency II ratio of 190% 2017: 154% calculated under the standard formula.
The Solvency II information in this results disclosure has not been audited.
The estimated SCR and corresponding eligible own funds for each period unaudited were as follows: At At 31 December 31 December 1 2 2018 2017 m m 3 Own funds 2,237 1,849 Solvency capital requirements SCR 1,179 1,198 Solvency II surplus 1,058 651 Coverage 190% 154% 1 Based on preliminary estimates.
Formal annual filing due to the PRA by 3 June 2019.
2 As represented within the Annual 2017 Solvency II submission of the Old Mutual plc group, the group Quilter plc previously formed part of, to the PRA.
Own funds include a 566 million subordinated loan from the parent company at the time.
This subordinated loan was effectively converted to equity during H1 2018, following the acquisition of the entity holding the loan.
3 Group own funds are stated after allowing for the impact of the proposed final dividend payment relating to 2018 of 61 million.
170 Quilter Annual Report 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 a : Capital management continued 40 a i : Regulatory capital continued The Group own funds include the Quilter plc issued subordinated debt security which qualifies as capital under Solvency II.
The composition of own funds by tier is presented in the table below for year ended 31 December 2018.
At 31 December 2017, Solvency II group reporting was not required at a Quilter plc level and is therefore not included in the table below.
At 31 December 2018 Group own funds m 1 Tier 1 2,036 2 Tier 2 201 Total Group Solvency II own funds 2,237 1 All Tier 1 capital is unrestricted for tiering purposes.
2 Comprises a Solvency II compliant subordinated debt security in the form of a Tier 2 bond, which was issued at 200 million in February 2018.
The Groups EU insurance undertakings are also subject to Solvency II at entity level.
The Groups asset management and advisory businesses are subject to group supervision under the Capital Requirement Directive IV CRD IV.
Other regulated entities in the Group are subject to the locally applicable entity-level capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The solvency and the capital requirements for the Group and each of its regulated subsidiaries are reported and monitored through monthly Capital Management Forum meetings.
Throughout 2018, the Group and each of its regulated subsidiaries have complied with the applicable regulatory capital requirements.
40 a ii : Loan covenants Under the terms of the revolving credit facility agreement, the Group is required to comply with the following financial covenant: the ratio of total net borrowings to consolidated equity shareholders funds shall not exceed 0.5.
At 31 December 2018 Note m Total external borrowings of the Company 32 197 Less: cash and cash equivalents of the Company 281 Total net external borrowings of the Company 84 Total shareholders equity of the Group 2,005 Tier 2 bond 32 197 Total Group equity including Tier 2 bond 2,202 Ratio of Company net external borrowings to Group equity -0.038 The Group has complied with the covenant since the facility was created in February 2018.
40 a iii : Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The Group ORSA process is an ongoing cycle of risk and capital management processes which provide an overall assessment of the current and future risk profile of the Group and demonstrates the relationship between business strategy, risk appetite, risk profile and solvency needs.
These assessments support strategic planning and risk-based decision making.
The underlying ORSA processes cover the entire Group and consider how risks and solvency needs may evolve over the planning period.
TheORSA includes stress and scenario tests, which are performed to assess the financial and operational resilience of the Group.
The Group ORSA report is produced annually.
This report summarises the analysis, insights and conclusions from the underlying risk and capital management processes in respect of the Group.
The ORSA report is submitted to the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA as part ofthe normal supervisory process and may be supplemented by ad hoc assessments where there is a material change in the risk profile of the Group outside the usual reporting cycle.
In addition to the Group ORSA process, entity level ORSA processes are performed for each of the solo insurance entities within the Group.
The Group ICAAP process is similar to the ORSA process although the ICAAP process is performed for a subset of the Group consisting of the investment and advisory firms within the Group the ICAAP Group.
The Group ICAAP report is also produced annually.
This report summarises the analysis, insights and conclusions from the underlying risk and capital management processes in respect of the ICAAP Group.
The ICAAP report is submitted to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA as part of the normal supervisory process and may be supplemented by ad hoc assessments where there is a material change in the risk profile of the ICAAP Group outside the usual reporting cycle.
The conclusions of ORSA and ICAAP processes are reviewed by management and the Board throughout the year.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 171 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 b : Credit risk Overall exposure to credit risk Credit risk is the risk of adverse movements in credit spreads relative to the reference yield curve, credit ratings or default rates leading to a deterioration in the level or volatility of assets, liabilities or financial instruments resulting in loss of earnings or reduced solvency.
This includes counterparty default risk, counterparty concentration risk and spread risk.
The Group has established a credit risk framework that includes a Credit Risk Policy, Credit Risk Standard and Credit Risk Appetite Statement.
This framework applies to all activities where the shareholder is exposed to credit risk, either directly or indirectly, ensuring appropriate identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting of the Groups credit risk exposures.
The credit risk arising from all exposures is mitigated through ensuring the Group only enters into relationships with appropriately robust counterparties, adhering to the Group Credit Risk Policy.
For each asset, consideration is given as to: the credit rating of the counterparty, which is used to derive the probability of default: the loss given default: the potential recovery which may be made in the event of default: the extent of any collateral that the firm has in respect of the exposures: and any second order risks that may arise where the firm has collateral against the credit risk exposure.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are monitored regularly to ensure that counterparties remain creditworthy, to ensure there is appropriate diversification of counterparties and to ensure that exposures are within approved limits.
At 31 December 2018, the Groups material credit exposures were to financial institutions primarily through the investment of shareholder funds, corporate entities including external fund managers and reinsurers and individuals primarily through fund management trade settlement activities.
There is no direct exposure to European sovereign debt outside of the UK within the shareholder investments.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk exposure.
Reinsurance arrangements The Group has reinsurance arrangements in place to mitigate the risk of excessive claims on unit-linked and non-linked protection contracts.
Reinsurance arrangements are also used in respect of unit-linked institutional business to access specific funds not available through direct fund links and to provide liquidity.
Since the Group uses reinsurance as a means of mitigating insurance risk, reinsurance counterparties bear a significant financial obligation tothe Group.
In general, credit risk is controlled through the use of risk premium reinsurance terms, where reinsurance cover is paid for as the cover is provided.
In these arrangements credit risk is limited to the risk of being unable to recover amounts due as a result of claims arising over the latest quarter, since reinsurance accounts are settled quarterly in arrears.
This risk is largely mitigated since the Group would be able to withhold amounts due to the reinsurer to offset amounts due from the reinsurer.
The Group also has reinsurance arrangements in which there is a timing difference between the reinsurance premium payment and the provision of cover, which results in prepayment for cover by the Group.
In respect of these arrangements, a credit risk exposure can arise.
Reinsurance credit risk is managed by dealing only with reinsurance firms with credit ratings which meet the requirements of the Groups credit risk policy on inception of new reinsurance arrangements.
The Group monitors the exposure to and credit rating of reinsurance counterparties regularly to ensure that these remain within acceptable limits.
Legal agreements are in place for all reinsurance arrangements which set out the terms of the arrangement and the rights of both the Group and the reinsurance providers.
None of the Groups reinsurance assets are either past due or impaired.
Of the reinsurance assets shown in the statement of financial position all are considered investment grade with the exception of 20 million of unrated exposures 2017: 51 million.
Collateral is not taken against reinsurance assets or deposits held with reinsurers other than in limited circumstances.
For further information see note 29.
Details of the age analyses and credit quality of reinsurance assets in respect of insurance contracts and investment contracts are included below.
172 Quilter Annual Report 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 b : Credit risk continued Investment of shareholder funds The risk of counterparty default in respect of the investment of shareholder funds is managed through: setting minimum credit rating requirements for counterparties: setting limits and key risk indicators for individual counterparties and counterparty concentrations: monitoring exposures regularly against approved limits: and ongoing monitoring of counterparties and associated limits.
Other credit risks The Group is exposed to financial adviser counterparty risk through a number of loans that it makes to its advisers and the payment of upfront commission on the sale of certain types of business.
The risk of default by financial advisers is managed through monthly monitoring of loan and commission debt balances.
The Group is exposed to the risk of default by fund management groups in respect of settlements and rebates of fund management charges on collective investments held for the benefit of policyholders.
This risk is managed through the due diligence process which is completed before entering into any relationship with a fund group.
Amounts due to and from fund groups are monitored for prompt settlement and appropriate action is taken where settlement is not timely.
Legal contracts are maintained where the Group enters into credit transactions with a counterparty.
Details of the credit quality of debt securities can be found in this note in the table below.
Impact of credit risk on fair value Due to the limited exposure that the Group has to credit risk, credit risk does not have a material impact on the fair value movement of financial instruments for the year under review.
The fair value movements on these instruments are mainly due to changes in market conditions.
Maximum exposure to credit risk The table below represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk does not differ from the carrying value disclosed in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Exposure arising from financial instruments not recognised on the statement of financial position is measured as the maximum amount that the Group would have to pay, which may be significantly greater than the amount that would be recognised as a liability.
The not rated balances represent the pool of counterparties that do not require a rating.
These counterparties individually generate no material credit exposure and this pool is highly diversified, monitored and subject to limits.
The Group does not have any significant exposure arising from items not recognised on the statement of financial position.
Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired Included through Internally consolidation AAA AA A BBB BBB rated of funds Carrying value At 31 December 2018 m m m m m m m m Financial investments at FVTPL 201 532 2,549 3,282 Government and government-related securities 201 974 1,175 Other debt securities, preference sharesand debentures 520 1,575 2,095 Short-term funds and securities 12 12 Reinsurance assets 930 1,186 26 20 2,162 Cash and cash equivalents 1,358 60 451 1 6 35 484 2,395 Cash at amortised cost, subject to lifetime ECL 60 451 1 3 35 484 1,034 Money market funds at FVTPL 1,358 3 1,361 Loans and advances 222 222 Loans and advances subject to 12-month ECL 33 33 Loans and advances at FVTPL 189 189 Other receivables 320 166 486 Other receivables subject to lifetime ECL 283 166 449 Prepayments and accruals 37 37 Contract assets subject to lifetime ECL 44 44 1,358 1,191 1,637 27 6 1,173 3,199 8,591 Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 173 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 b : Credit risk continued Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired Included through Internally consolidation AAA AA A BBB BBB rated of funds Carrying value At 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m m Financial investments at FVTPL 183 12 508 4,536 5,239 Government and government-related securities 183 2,244 2,427 Other debt securities, preference sharesand debentures 505 1,896 2,401 Short-term funds and securities 12 3 15 Other investments and securities 396 396 Reinsurance assets 1,050 1,807 51 2,908 Loans and advances neither past due not impaired 199 199 1,233 1,807 12 758 4,536 8,346 The Group has initially applied IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 and has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph 7.2.
Impairment allowance Consistent with IFRS 9 Financial instruments see note 4 k, assets that are measured and classified as amortised costs are monitored for any expected credit loss ECL on either a 12-month or lifetime ECL model.
The majority of such assets within the Group are measured on the lifetime ECL model, with the exception of some specific loans that are on the 12-month ECL model.
As detailed in note 4 r Changes in significant accounting policies, upon adoption of IFRS 9, the Group incurred an impairment allowance of0.2million.
The table below shows a reconciliation of Groups total impairment allowance through to year end 31 December 2018.
Impairment allowance m Opening impairment allowance under IAS 39 0.3 Impact upon adoption of IFRS 9 0.2 Additions due to increased broker loans 0.4 At 31 December 2018 0.9 40 c : Market risk Market risk is the risk of an adverse change in the level or volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities or financial instruments resulting in loss of earnings or reduced solvency.
Market risk arises from changes in equity, bond and property prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups businesses depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
The Group has a market risk policy which set out the risk management framework, permitted and prohibited market risk exposures, maximum limits on market risk exposures, management information and stress testing requirements which are used to monitor and manage market risk.
The policy is cascaded to the businesses across the Group and Group level governance and monitoring processes provide oversight of the management of market risk by the individual businesses.
The Group does not undertake any principal trading for its own account.
The Groups revenue is however affected by the value of assets under management and consequently it has exposure to equity market levels and economic conditions.
Scenario testing is undertaken to test the resilience of the business to severe but plausible events and to assist in the identification of management actions.
40 c i : Equity and property price risk In accordance with the market risk policy, the Group does not invest shareholder assets in equity or property, or related collective investments, except where the exposure arises due to: mismatches between unitised fund assets and liabilities.
These mismatches are permitted, subject to maximum limits, to avoid excessive dealing costs: and seed capital investments.
Seed capital is invested within new unit-linked funds at the time when these funds are launched.
The seed capital is then withdrawn from the funds as policyholders invest in the funds.
The above exposures are not material.
Due to the nature of the investments held there is no material exposure to equity and property price risk on non-linked assurance policyholder assets.
174 Quilter Annual Report 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 c : Market risk continued The Group derives fees e. g. annual management charges and incurs costs e. g. adviser fund-based renewal commissions which are linked tothe performance of the underlying assets.
Therefore future earnings will be affected by equity and property market performance.
Equity and property price sensitivity testing A movement in equity and property prices would impact the fee income that is based on the market value of the investments held for the policyholders.
In this analysis, all linked renewal commission is assumed to be fund-based and all gains are assumed to be realised gains.
Thesensitivity is applied as an instantaneous shock to equity and property prices at the start of the year.
The sensitivity analysis is not limited to the unit-linked business and therefore reflects the sensitivity of the Group as a whole.
Impact on profit after tax At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Impact of 10% increase in equity and property prices 36 32 Impact of 10% decrease in equity and property prices 36 31 40 c ii : Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from investment in fixed interest government securities, which are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and bank balances held with financial institutions.
Fixed interest UK government securities are held predominantly to match liabilities by durations for non-linked protection business determined on an IFRS basis.
Therefore, on an IFRS basis there is low exposure to interest rate movements such that any movement in asset values is balanced by a movement in the insurance provision.
A rise in interest rates would also cause an immediate fall in the value of investments in fixed income securities within unit-linked funds.
The unit-linked funds asset look-through analysis has revealed that less than 30% of the linked assets are invested in the fixed income securities which generally have short durations, resulting in a low material impact in fund-based revenues.
Exposure of the IFRS income statement and statement of financial position equity to interest rates are summarised below.
Interest rate sensitivity testing The impact of an increase and decrease in market interest rates of 1% is tested e. g. if the current interest rate is 5%, the test allows for the effects of an instantaneous change to 4% and 6% from the start of the year.
The test allows consistently for similar changes in investment returns and movements in the market value of assets backing non-linked liabilities.
The sensitivity of profit to change in interest rates is provided.
Impact on profit after tax At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 m m Impact of 1% increase in interest rates 19 20 Impact of 1% decrease in interest rates 12 10 40 c iii : Currency translation risk Currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups functional currency is pounds sterling, which accounts for the majority of the Groups transactions, but the Group also has minor exposure to foreign exchange risk in respect to accounts receivable and future revenues denominated in US dollars, Euro and Swedish krona through its International business.
The currency risk is mitigated using derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts.
After risk mitigation, the Group does not have material foreign currency risk exposure.
40 d : Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that there are insufficient assets or that assets cannot be realised in order to settle financial obligations as they fall due or that market conditions preclude the ability of the Group to trade in illiquid assets in order to maintain its asset and liability matching ALM profile.
The Group manages liquidity through: maintaining adequate high quality liquid assets and banking facilities, the level of which is informed through appropriate liquidity stress testing: continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows: and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities, where possible.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 175 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 d : Liquidity risk continued Individual businesses maintain and manage their local liquidity requirements according to their business needs within the overall Group Liquidity Risk Framework that includes a Group Liquidity Risk Policy, Group Liquidity Risk Standard and Group Liquidity Risk Appetite Statement.
The Group framework is applied consistently across all businesses in the Group to identify, manage, measure, monitor and report on all liquidity risks that have a material impact on liquidity levels.
This framework considers both short-term liquidity and cash management considerations and longer-term funding risk considerations.
Liquidity is monitored centrally by Group Treasury, with management actions taken at a business level to ensure each business has liquidity tocover its minimum liquidity requirement, with an appropriate buffer.
The Group maintains contingency funding arrangements to provide liquidity support to businesses in the event of severe liquidity stresses.
Contingency Funding Plans are in place for each individual business in order to identify a comprehensive list of contingent funding sources and the order and speed in which they could be utilised in a stress scenario.
The plans undergo an annual review and testing cycle to ensure they are fit for purpose and can be relied upon during a liquidity stress.
Information on the nature of the investments and securities held is given in note 19.
Prior to separation from Old Mutual plc the Group had a 70 million revolving credit facility in place with Old Mutual plc which could be drawn down in a liquidity stress and utilised freely within the Group.
On 28 February 2018 debt financing arrangements were put in place that allowed the Group to become financially independent from Old Mutual plc and maintain sufficient liquidity ahead of listing at the end of June 2018.
Thisallowed the Group to terminate existing arrangements with Old Mutual plc.
The debt financing consisted of the following: 200 million Tier 2 Bond issuance details of which are given in note 32: 300 million Term Loan that was repaid in full at the end of June following the sale of the Single Strategy Asset Management business: and 125 million five-year Revolving Credit Facility with a five-bank club that represents a form of contingency liquidity for the Group.
No drawdown on this facility has been made since inception.
The Group has the option to extend the facility for a further two-year period.
The financing arrangements are considered sufficient to maintain the target liquidity levels of the Group and offer coverage for appropriate stress scenarios identified within the liquidity stress testing undertaken across the Group.
Further details, together with information on the Groups borrowed funds, are given in note 32.
The Group does not have material liquidity exposure to special purpose entities or investment funds.
40 e : Insurance risk risk arising within insurance contracts 40 e i : Overview The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts, under which the Group agrees to compensate the policyholder or other beneficiary in the event that a specified uncertain future event the insured event affecting the policyholder occurs.
The Group offers life assurance, critical illness and other life protection business.
The Group does not offer general insurance business and therefore does not take on other forms of insurance risk such as motor and property insurance risks.
Insurance risk arises through exposure to variable claims experience on life assurance, critical illness and other protection business and exposure to variable operating experience in respect of factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
Unfavourable persistency, expenses and mortality and morbidity claim rates, relative to the actuarial assumptions made in the pricing process, may result inprofit margins reducing below the target levels included in the pricing process.
The Group has implemented an insurance risk policy which sets out the Group requirements for the management, measurement, monitoring and reporting of insurance risks.
The Group has implemented 3 standards which sit within the insurance risk policy, as follows: underwriting and claims standard: reinsurance standard: and technical provisions standard.
The sensitivity of the Groups earnings and capital position to insurance risks is monitored through the Groups business planning and capital management processes.
The insurance risk profile and experience is closely monitored relative to key risk metrics and defined tolerances.
The Group manages its insurance risks effectively through the following mechanisms: an agreed risk appetite for all risk types including insurance risks: pricing of insurance contracts utilising analysis of mortality, morbidity, persistency and expense experience: underwriting of mortality and morbidity risks: reinsurance, which is used to limit the Groups exposure to large single claims and catastrophes through transfer of insurance risk exposures:and the Group does not offer Group insurance business in order to avoid risk concentrations of insurance risk.
176 Quilter Annual Report 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 e : Insurance risk risk arising within insurance contracts continued Terms and conditions of life assurance and critical illness protection business The terms and conditions for life assurance and critical illness protection business determine the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
The following table outlines the general form of terms and conditions that apply to contracts for the key protection products offered by the Group, and the nature of the risk incurred by the Group.
Policyholder participation Category Essential terms Main risks Policyholder guarantees in investment return Unit-linked life assurance Mortality charges may be Mortality The initial premium is None re-priced guaranteed to sustain the original cover for the first 10 years Unit-linked critical illness Mortality and morbidity Mortality, Morbidity The initial premium is None charges may be re-priced guaranteed to sustain the original cover for the first 10 years Non-linked life assurance and critical illness Premium rates defined at Mortality, Morbidity Rates guaranteed for the None 1 1 inception life of the contract 1 Certain non-linked life assurance and critical illness contracts have premiums which are reviewable if the contract term is extended beyond the initial term.
Mortality and morbidity Mortality and morbidity risk is the risk that death, critical illness and disability claims experience is higher than the rates assumed when pricing contracts.
Possible causes are new and unexpected epidemics, reductions in the effectiveness of treatments such as antibiotics and widespread changes in lifestyle.
For unit-linked contracts, a risk charge is applied to meet the expected cost of the insured benefit in excess of the unit value.
This risk charge can be altered in the event of changes in the expectation for future claims experience, subject to the objective to provide fair customer outcomes.
Persistency Persistency risk is the risk that policyholder surrenders, transfers or premium cessation on contracts occur at levels that are different to the levels expected and allowed for within the pricing process.
Persistency statistics are monitored monthly and a detailed persistency analysis ataproduct level is carried out on an annual basis.
Management actions may be triggered if persistency statistics indicate significant adverse movement or emerging trends in experience.
Expenses Expense risk is the risk that actual expenses and expense inflation differ from the levels expected and allowed for within the pricing process.
Expense levels are monitored quarterly against budgets and forecasts.
Expense drivers are used to allocate expenses to entities and products.
Some product structures include maintenance charges.
These charges are reviewed annually in light of changes in maintenance expense levels and the market rate of inflation.
This review may result in changes in charge levels.
40 e ii : Sensitivity analysis life assurance Changes in key assumptions used to value insurance contracts would result in increases or decreases to the insurance contract liabilities recognised, with impact on profit loss and or shareholders equity.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed by applying the following parameters to the statement of financial position and income statement as at31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Interest rate and equity and property price sensitivities are included within the Group market sensitivities above.
Expenses The increase in expenses is assumed to apply to the costs associated with the maintenance and acquisition of insurance contracts.
It is assumed that these expenses are increased by 10% from the start of the year, so is applied as an expense shock rather than a gradual increase.
The only administrative expenses that are deferrable are sales bonuses but as new business volumes are unchanged in this sensitivity, sales bonuses and the associated deferrals have not been increased.
Administrative expenses have been allocated equally between life and pensions.
An increase in expenses of 10% would have decreased profit by 6.5 million after tax 2017: 9.1 million.
Mortality morbidity The impact on profit of an increase in mortality and morbidity claims rates of 5% is tested.
This would affect the level of insurance contract claims and is assumed to apply throughout the year.
An increase in mortality and morbidity claims of 5% each would have decreased profit after tax by 1.2 million 2017: 0.9 million.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 177 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 40: Capital and financial risk management continued 40 f : Operational risk Operational risk is the risk that failure of people, processes, systems or external events results in financial loss, damage to brand reputation oradverse regulatory intervention, or government or regulatory fine.
Operational risk includes all risks resulting from operational activities, excluding the risks already described above and excluding strategic risks and risks resulting from being part of a wider group of companies.
Operational risk includes the effects of failure of administration processes, IT maintenance and development processes, investment processes including settlements with fund managers, fund pricing and, matching and dealing, product development and management processes, legal risks e. g. risk of inadequate legal contract with third parties, risks relating to the relationship with third party suppliers and outsourcers, and the consequences of financial crime and business interruption events.
In accordance with Group policies, management have primary responsibility for the identification, assessment, management and monitoring ofrisks, and the escalation and reporting on issues to executive management.
The Group executive management have responsibility for implementing the Group Operational Risk management methodologies and frameworks and for development and implementation of action plans to manage risk levels within acceptable tolerances and to resolve those issues identified.
40 g : Contractual maturity analysis The following table is a maturity analysis of liability cash flows based on contractual maturity dates for investment contract liabilities and expected claim dates for insurance contracts.
Investment contract policyholders have the option to terminate or transfer their contracts at any time and to receive the surrender or transfer value of their policies, and are therefore classified as less than three months maturity.
Although these liabilities are payable on demand, the Group does not expect that all liabilities will be settled within this period.
Undiscounted cash flows Three Between Carrying Up to three months to one and More than amount months one year five years five years Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 602 21 11 46 992 1,070 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 588 7 11 46 992 1,056 Outstanding claims 14 14 - - - 14 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts andsimilarcontracts 56,450 56,450 - - - 56,450 Total policyholder liabilities 57,052 56,471 11 46 992 57,520 Undiscounted cash flows Three Between Carrying Up to three months to one and More than amount months one year five years five years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Life assurance policyholder liabilities Insurance contracts 489 15 8 34 855 912 Life assurance policyholder liabilities 480 6 8 34 855 903 Outstanding claims 9 9 9 Investment contracts Unit-linked investment contracts andsimilarcontracts 59,139 59,139 59,139 Total policyholder liabilities 59,628 59,154 8 34 855 60,051 178 Quilter Annual Report 2018 41: Fiduciary activities The Group provides custody, trustee, corporate administration and investment management and advisory services to third parties that involve the Group making allocation and purchase and sale decisions in relation to a wide range of financial instruments.
Those assets that are held ina fiduciary capacity are not included in these financial statements.
Some of these arrangements involve the Group accepting targets for benchmark levels of returns for the assets under the Groups care.
These services give rise to the risk that the Group may be accused of misadministration or under-performance.
42: Related party transactions In the normal course of business, the Group enters into transactions with related parties.
These are conducted on an arms length basis and are not material to the Groups results.
There were no transactions with related parties during the current and prior year which had a material effect on the results or financial position of the Group except for the repayment of intercompany indebtedness with Old Mutual plc which has been disclosed in note 32: Borrowings.
Except for these intra-group loan repayments, the nature of the related party transactions of the Group has not changed over the course of the year.
The Groups interests in subsidiaries and related undertakings are set out in Appendix B.
42 a : Transactions with previous Parent company, Old Mutual plc Prior to the Groups Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc in June 2018, the Group had various transactions with Old Mutual plc and other related entities within the Old Mutual group, all of which were in the normal course of business.
All receivables and payables were settled at the pointof separation, resulting in receivables and payables of nil as at 31 December 2018 2017: receivables were 28 million and payables were 790million.
In addition, the Group incurred 3 million of interest expense in relation to intercompany indebtedness at the time, paid to Old Mutual plc prior to separation in 2018 2017: 60 million and received nil income 2017: 5 million in respect of other transactions with Old Mutual plc group.
42 b : Transactions with key management personnel, remuneration and other compensation Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director whether executive or otherwise of the Group.
Details of the compensation paid to the Board of Directors as well as their shareholdings in the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
The summary of compensation of key management personnel is as follows: 42 c : Key management personnel compensation At At 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 000 000 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 13,037 9,610 Post-employment benefits 100 80 Share-based payments 6,876 4,089 Termination benefits 346 Total compensation of key management personnel 20,359 13,779 42 d : Key management personnel transactions Key management personnel and members of their close family have undertaken transactions with the Group in the normal course of business.
The Groups products are available to all employees of the Group on preferential staff terms.
The impact of this on the financial statements is immaterial.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, key management personnel and their close family members contributed 3 million 2017: 6 million to Group pensions, investments and life insurance products.
The total value of investments in Group pensions and investment products by key management personnel was 19 million 2017: 16 million.
42 e : Other related parties Details of the Groups staff pension schemes are provided in note 35.
Transactions made between the Group and the Groups staff pension schemes are made in the normal course of business.
Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 179 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2018 43: Events after the reporting date On 14 February 2019, Intrinsic Financial Services Limited IFSL, a subsidiary company, acquired the remaining equity of the Charles Derby Group Limited CDG, having previously held a minority interest in CDG.
The acquisition represents the next stage of Quilters ambition to broaden out its national advice business.
The acquisition complements the growth of Quilter Private Client Advisers which serves upper affluent and high net worth customers.
The provisional valuation of CDG at acquisition was 32 million.
After deducting the existing holding with a fair value of 2 million immediately prior to acquisition, the fair value of consideration for the remaining 30 million equity was 28 million comprising a cash payment of 21 million and deferred consideration of 9 million discounted to present value of 7 million payable in 2 equal instalments, 18 and 36 months after the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets including the value of the distribution channel will be recognised at acquisition.
Intangible assets are grossed up by the current tax rate, with a corresponding deferred tax liability created on the statement of financial position.
Because the purchase price allocation PPA model is not yet complete, the excess of acquisition cost over the net liabilities acquired has been apportioned on an estimated basis 50% to intangible assets, with the remainder being classified as goodwill.
Provisional balances of 19 million for intangible assets, 3 million for deferred tax liability and 15 million for goodwill will be recognised within the group consolidated financial statements atacquisition.
During 2019, the allocation will be finalised, with the potential for a reallocation between intangible assets and goodwill.
The provisional consolidated statement of financial position for CDG at acquisition date comprised total assets of 1.4 million, total liabilities of2.0 million and equity of 0.6 million.
The goodwill is derived from the existing adviser base which at the date of completion was around 200 mostly self-employed Registered Financial Planners.
Strong synergies exist between IFSL and CDG, with the CDG advisers operating within Intrinsics advice processes and proposition.
CDG has proven lead generation capability which will help to deliver Intrinsics national growth strategy.
The deferred consideration payments are variable, subject to changes in the value of assets under administration and deduction for indemnity claims.
The full estimated amount of deferred consideration is currently expected to be paid.
