Strategic report Operating responsibly Committed to fun More Our purpose is to bring excitement and entertainment information to the customers and communities we serve.
Responsible gambling committee We understand our responsibility to all in our page 73 communities.
We aim to act with the highest integrity and honesty in everything we do.
Whilst detecting a risk of harm in the first instance Responsible gambling is a complex matter, Rank is making use of available 2017 18 in review data to create alert systems which will ensure that we are increasingly identifying customers at an The last year has seen an increased focus by the earlier stage, giving us a greater chance to interact Government, the Gambling Commission and wider with them and, where possible, help avoid any stakeholders on building collective understanding issues in the first instance.
ofthe harm that can arise from gambling, and theefforts to identify and interact appropriately In our digital business, we benefit from extensive with customers showing signs of problem gambling.
and detailed transactional data and our investment in data science techniques and dedicated resource Whilst the prevalence of problem gambling appears has allowed us to build models based on a wide broadly stable, Rank does not view this as a success range of known problem gambling markers.
Our focus as a responsible operator must be to past year we have further refined our models, using continue to innovate, learn and become ever more insights from wider industry research, as well as sophisticated in our approach to reducing the social taking the time to critically review and evaluate our impact of problem gambling.
Customers identified by our acknowledge the growing calls for the industry to models are exposed to a range of interventions, each direct its efforts not only to supporting problem of which are in turn being evaluated and assessed to gamblers, but also to the better early detection of confirm their effectiveness, or to otherwise inform risk and concerning behaviour amongst customers.
During the year, the Department for Digital, Culture, Equivalent initiatives can be seen in our retail Media and Sport DCMS completed its review of business, where we are progressing a trial of gaming machines and social responsibility.
As an customer risk identification in partnership with expansion of previous triennial reviews of machine Focal Research, a specialist organisation based in stakes and prizes, this review for the first time Canada, and alongside other members of the included in its scope consideration of existing social National Casino Forum.
We are also committed to responsibility safeguards against the growing seeing through our previous promises of introducing evidence and understanding of problem gambling additional safeguards on our gambling machines.
The review concluded with a clear call to action to the industry to continue to invest and enhance In the latter part of this year Mecca, along with itsresponse to problem gambling.
Rank broadly other Bingo Association members, will begin welcomes the findings of the DCMS review and the trialling enhanced social responsibility messaging package of measures put forward for both our retail ina number of clubs and is also considering how and digital businesses.
We remain committed to itmay add further safeguards, in particular to demonstrating that our industry can grow in a gaming machines.
28 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Responsible gambling Cross-industry working Rank has always believed in the value of working in the year ahead closely with sector partners and particularly 2018 19 will see several initiatives implemented withinour respective bingo, casino and online designed to: tradeassociation networks.
However, we increase the number of customers, VIP and acknowledge Government calls for even wider non-VIP, with whom we are engaging in safer industry collaboration and sharing of best practice.
gambling conversations about their play: Further to this, in the coming year we will be seeking more ways to share insight on what we continue to build the accuracy of our early aredoing at Rank and to learn from others.
detection systems, including identifying more opportunities for real-time risk identification: We intend not only to expand our efforts to share best practice and increase our learning opportunities, start to understand how we might assess but to identify projects on which we can collaborate affordability at an earlier stage in customer with other operators to trial new techniques or relationships: approaches to managing problem gambling risk.
build on the existing range of tools available to In April 2018, we welcomed the arrival of the our customers to help them manage their play, GAMSTOP service a multi-operator self-exclusion including limits and reality checks on machines scheme for online gambling.
Now, along with the inour casinos: and SENSE scheme for land-based casinos and BISES evaluate and assess the impact and effectiveness of for land-based bingo anyone experiencing a our responsible gambling policies and procedures, gambling problem or concerned that they may be to inform future development and investment.
atrisk of problem gambling and who plays with ourbrands, online or offline, will be able to prevent their access on a national basis.
For online gambling, in particular, we recognise that for too long problemgamblers have been vulnerable to the ease of creating new accounts with another online operator, having entered self-exclusions elsewhere.
With similar ease, someone can now register withGAMSTOP and prevent their own access from all  operators, which will, we hope, come as a welcome intervention to those suffering the most.
com | 29 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued 2018 19 current plans Our Employees Continue to develop our Human 74% 2017 18 progress Resources system to provide engagement maximum value to the Group: Continued to embed the Group-wide values, STARS, into everything we do: continue to deliver the Groups established the Be Talent model to diversity and inclusion strategy: 90% develop talented individuals within develop management and leadership response rate the Group: and capability across the brands and in published our first Gender Pay Gap our support functions: report as part of the Groups diversity review reward packages to ensure and inclusion agenda.
theyreflect the requirements of our increasingly diverse workforce: and closely consider the implications of Brexit across the Group for its workforce.
30 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS being better at keeping colleagues Supported by our various cascade Engagement informed about what is happening processes, such as the huddles Engagement at every level across our via team meetings and briefings.
approach in our venues, we have a business is something we take very clearcommitment to ensuring that seriously.
On the back of our bi-annual Alongside Your View, individuals are thebusiness delivers the very best in employee opinion survey, Your View, also invited to attend Talking STARS customer service through informed departments create action plans to meetings which occur at both brand andengaged team members.
ensure that colleagues are not only and support office level.
These meetings aware of the results, but are actively are facilitated by senior leaders in the Diversity and inclusion engaged in next steps to address key business, such as the human resources During the year, the Group made challenges per team, department and at director or the director of investor significant progress in driving forward a wider organisational level.
its diversity and inclusion agenda.
A full Year-on-year employee engagement rose Operating on a quarterly basis, these diversity and inclusion strategy was bythree percentage points to 74%, with sessions encourage colleagues to talk agreed by Ranks senior leadership team a 90% completion rate.
about opportunities and ideas and how with the following actioned in the year: they can be implemented within the The survey asks colleagues to answer inaugural Women at Rank business.
questions on different aspects of their networking breakfast: working life at Rank.
Scores and The above forums operate alongside unconscious bias training delivered to comments are reviewed by management formal employee forums where the Board and senior leadership teams and actions are agreed to address feedback is gathered from managers with an agreed cascade to further identified issues.
andteam members in both our venues colleagues in 2018 19: and support offices.
All these channels Areas identified where Rank scored ensure collaboration to solve key issues launch of a sponsorship programme particularly well related to: permeates through the organisation for high-performing senior female treating each other with fairness toimprove operational performance.
colleagues: and andrespect: On a day-to-day basis, teams go to commitment to Ranks signature of providing the best internal customer greatlengths to ensure that colleagues PwCs Hospitality, Travel and Leisure service to our colleagues: are engaged in key projects.
are the Diversity in Gaming events being happy to go the extra mile: and Over the coming months, further work aligned to the Groups diversity and believing Rank takes responsible will be carried out including a review inclusion agenda or the implementation gambling seriously.
ofrecruitment processes and existing of the Retail Activity Forum to ensure policies to ensure Rank is attracting projects are effectively landed in our Areas identified for improvement andretaining a diverse workforce.
At the heart of these approaches related to: during the year has been on gender is a desire to ensure active engagement being more focused on listening to diversity and how Rank can improve in all that we do.
ourteams views and ideas: the gender balance: in 2018 19 Rank will look to extend its programme to being better at providing regular include other minority groups.
andconstructive feedback to During the year, Rank also published teamsontheir performance by itsfirst Gender Pay Gap report which theirlinemanagers: and can befound at www.
Board Senior management Whole company Male 8 Male 19 Male 5,024 1 FeMale 1 FeMale 6 FeMale 4,720 1.
Senior management is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulation 2013, and includes: i persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than company directors, and ii any other directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
com | 31 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Learning and development Health and safety Across our venues, the Group delivered development The key objectives of the 2017 18 health and safety programmes for both Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos H&S strategy were: through the Groups four apprenticeship schemes.
i Continue to improve H&S awareness by In line with the increased focus on customerdue training all general managers to understand diligence, the Group delivered advanced training on andput in place club-specific risk assessments enhanced duediligenceacross all our venues.
and ensure that safe systems of work training has been provided to 95% of relevant A significant proportion of training is made employeesby30 June 2018: availableto colleagues through eLearning courses.
Nearly 11,000 colleagues participated in some ii Put in place an online computerised H&S formof eLearning in the year with a total of system in all 149 clubs by 30 June 2018: and 118,000eLearning courses completed.
iii By 30 June 2018, reduce the number of employee and customer accidents in the UK by Disability a further 10% from their 30 June 2017 levels.
Rank is committed to ensuring that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply Again, positive progress has been made in this years for employment with the Group and to achieve objectives, with a completion rate of 100% for H&S progress within the business whilst employed.
awareness training by general managers, enabling Disabled persons will be treated to ensure they them to understand and put in place club-specific haveequal opportunities to be selected, risk assessments from the new generic risk trainedandpromoted.
assessments and safe systems of work.
The new online H&S system has been put in place across the Human rights 139 UK sites and Rank also exceeded its target of The board considers that it is not necessary for the reducing accidents within the UK, having achieved Group to operate a specific human rights policy at an overall reduction of 15% across both Mecca present.
Our policies already comply with relevant andGrosvenors venues in the year.
laws and respect the human rights of our employees and other stakeholders in the business.
11,000 e-Learning courses 118,000 coursed completed 32 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS About Carers Trust Our communities Carers Trust works to improve support, 2.0m Rank Cares servicesand recognition for anyone living with raised by the challenges of caring, unpaid, for a family During the year, Rank celebrated its fifth year with rank cares member or friend who is ill, frail, disabled or its charitable partner, Carers Trust.
Rank employees has mental health or addiction problems.
continued with their fantastic efforts and raised a total of 0.4m in the year.
We are delighted to say Carers Trust does this with a UK-wide Rank has now raised over 2m since the start of the 7,297 networkof quality-assured independent partnership and this has been down to the passion partners and through the provision of CARERS received and commitment demonstrated by our colleagues.
grantstohelp carers get the extra help they support need tolive their own lives.
Ranks fundraising efforts include a wide variety ofactivities from cake bakes to sponsored With these locally based network partners, teamchallenges.
2,516 Carers Trust can support carers in their homes During the year, the Rank Cares programme has through the provision of replacement care, VOLUNTEER HOURS supported carers through a grant-giving programme andin the community with information, by rank employees which has resulted in 673 carers receiving support advice, emotional support, hands-on practical since the partnership started.
help and access to much-needed breaks.
Employees also give up their own time to volunteer Carers Trust offers specialist services for at local carers services across the UK.
A total of 516 carersofpeople of all ages and conditions volunteer hours were completed by Rank anda range of individually tailored support colleaguesin the year.
To find out more about the work Carers Trust does please visit its website at carers.
org Greenhouse gas emissions Year ended 30 June 2018 Year ended 30 June 2017 Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes CO e m Tonnes CO e m 2 2 1 1 ofCO e % revenue ofCO e % revenue 2 2 Scope 1 Comprises gas use plus gasoil in Belgium, owned transport and fugitive F-gas emissions 16,681 34 17,616 28 Scope 2 Comprises electricity generation 21,798 44 32,135 50 2 Scope 3 Comprises waste, materials use, flights, electricity transmission and distribution 11,077 22 13,822 22 3 Outside of scopes Represents the biogenic proportion of petrol and diesel 28 32 Total 49,584 100 66.9 63, 605 100 89.9 1.
CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gases expressed in terms of global warming potential 2 ofone unit of carbon dioxide.
Well-to-tank emissions for fuels electricity, gas, petrol, diesel and aviation fuel, which would sit within scope 3, are not included in the report.
This is categorised as outside scopes rather than scope 3, in line with the Defra 2015 emission factor guidance.
