Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2018 19 financial calendar Capital gains tax For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a 21 September 2018 Record date for 2017 18 final dividend disposal of ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 Annual general meeting and interim March 1982 including shares held in the predecessor 18 October 2018 management statement company, The Rank Organisation Plc, the price of the 30 October 2018 Payment date for 2017 18 final dividend Companys ordinary shares at that date was 190p per share.
31 January 2019 Interim results announcement This price should be adjusted for the effects of the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced share alternative in July 1993, Registrar the sub-division and consolidation of shares in March 1994, All administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in the the enhanced scrip dividend in March 1998, and the 18 for 25 first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar quoting sub-division and share consolidation aligned with the 65p reference number 1235 and clearly state the registered special dividend payment which took place in March 2007. shareholders name and address.
Please write to The Rank More information regarding these adjustments is available on Group Plc registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer the www.
Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK 0371 384 2098 and from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047.
Shareholder security There is a text phone available on 0371 384 2255 for We are aware that some of our shareholders have received shareholders with hearing difficulties.
unsolicited telephone calls concerning their Rank shares.
These communications tend to be from overseas-based Shareview brokers who offer a premium price for your Rank shares but The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar ask you to make an upfront payment, typically in the form gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and ofan insurance bond.
We recommend that before paying other investments including: anymoney you: direct access to data held for them on the share register obtain the name of the person and firm contacting you: including recent share movements and dividend details: check the FCA register at www.
uk register to ensure a recent valuation of their portfolio: and they are authorised: a range of information and practical help for shareholders use the details on the FCA register to contact the firm: including how they can elect to receive call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there communications electronically.
are no contact details on the FCA register or you are told It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just they are out of date: and need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals ordividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for to avoid doing business with: www.
uk consumers more details: www.
protect-yourself unauthorised-firms  of dividends avoid The Company is no longer operating a dividend reIf you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investment plan.
Shareholders may find it more convenient investments, you will not have access to the Financial to make arrangements to have dividends paid directly to their Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation bank account.
The advantages of this are that the dividend is Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
credited to a shareholders bank account on the payment Below, please find the link to the FCAs website which gives date, there is no need to present cheques for payment and information on scams and swindles, which shareholders may there is no risk of cheques being lost in the post.
uk consumers scams To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing mandate please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, whose Further information on fraud can be found at www.
Alternatively, shareholders who use actionfraud.
uk Equinitis Shareview can log on to www.
co. uk and Action Frauds helpline is 0300 123 2040. follow the online instructions.
We recommend that you report any attempted share frauds to Shareholder information the authorities, since providing information with regard to how the fraudsters have contacted and dealt with you will A wide range of information for shareholders and investors is assist the authorities in understanding the fraudsters way of available in the Investors area of the Rank Group website: operating so as to enable them to disrupt and prevent these www.
Frequently asked questions We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section on our website which provides answers to many questions that shareholders have: http: www.
com en investors shareholder-centre faqs.
com | 155 Financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued ShareGift Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value ofwhich may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift 17 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AH Tel: 020 7930 3737 For any other information please contact the following at our registered office: Luisa Wright, company secretary Sarah Powell, communications director Registered office The Rank Group Plc, TOR, Saint-Cloud Way, Maidenhead SL6 8BN Tel: 01628 504 000 The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales N 03140769 156 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 For more information, visit our website.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on munken polar, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp is bleached using both Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and Totally Chlorine Free TCF processes.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc RANK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 RANK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 The Rank Group Plc TOR Saint-Cloud Way Maidenhead SL6 8BN Tel: 01628 504 000 Web: www.
