Financial statements Statements of cash flow for the year ended 30 June 2018 Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 2018 2017 Note m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 23 102.4 116.3 0.7 0.1 Interest received 0.3 0.2 Interest paid 2.7 3.2 13.9 Tax paid received 14.4 14.7 2.3 Net cash from operating activities 85.6 98.6 12.3 0.1 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of intangible assets 11.6 13.1 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 25.4 29.6 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 32 16.5 Dividends received from subsidiaries 549.4 Net cash used in investing activities 53.5 42.7 549.4 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to equity holders 29.1 26.2 29.1 26.2 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.2 0.2 Repayment of term loans 20.0 10.0 Repayment of Yankee bond 10.1 Finance lease principal payments 1.4 1.3 Amounts paid to received from subsidiaries 508.0 26.1 Net cash used in financing activities 60.6 37.3 537.1 0.1 Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 28.5 18.6 0.2 Effect of exchange rate changes 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 76.5 57.9 0.4 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25 47.7 76.5 0.4 0.4 114 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 1 General information financial statements.
andaccounting policies a Exceptional items The Group separately discloses material one-off items as it General information believes it assists shareholders to understand underlying The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries performance and trends between periods.
Judgement is together the Group operate gaming services in Great Britain required in determining whether an item should be classified including the Channel Islands, Spain and Belgium.
as an exceptional item or included within underlying results.
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on In the current year impairment charges and reversals, group the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and restructuring costs, onerous property lease costs, acquisition domiciled in England and Wales under registration number related costs and closure costs have been disclosed as 03140769.
The address of its registered office is TOR, Saintexceptional items.
Further details are disclosed in note 4.
b Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous Summary of significant jurisdictions, including jurisdictions of now discontinued accountingpolicies operations.
Judgement must be applied in assessing the likely The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation outcome of certain tax matters whose final outcome may not of these consolidated and Company financial statements are be determined for a number of years.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
These judgements are reassessed in each period until the outcome is finally determined through resolution with a tax 1.1 Basis of preparation authority and or through a legal process.
Differences arising The consolidated and Company financial statements have from changes in judgement or from final resolution may be been prepared under the historical cost convention.
material and will be charged or credited to the income statement in the relevant period.
1 Statement of compliance Within the Groups net tax liability of 10.3m 30 June 2017: The consolidated and Company financial statements have 12.4m are amounts of 4.9m 30 June 2017: 4.4m that been prepared in accordance with International Financial relate to uncertain tax positions, including those relating to Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as discontinued businesses.
The Group evaluates uncertain adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act items, where the tax judgement is subject to interpretation 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
and remains to be agreed with the relevant tax authority.
2 Going concern Provisions for uncertain items are made using judgement of In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the the most likely tax expected to be paid, based on a qualitative consolidated and Company financial statements, the directors assessment of all relevant information.
In assessing the have considered the issues impacting the Group during the appropriate provision for uncertain items, the Group period as detailed in the strategic report on pages 1 to 51 considers progress made in discussions with tax authorities, andhave reviewed the Groups projected compliance with its expert advice on the likely outcome and recent developments banking covenants detailed in the financial review on page in case law.
Further details of income tax are disclosed in 40.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating note 17. budgets, the directors believe that the Group will generate c Accounting treatment from exercising a convertible loan sufficient cash to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least note option 12 months from the date of approval of the financial The Group has given notice to convert a 3.5m receivable statements and comply with its banking covenants.
into 17.18% of the issued share capital of its digital platform Accordingly, the adoption of the going concern basis provider.
As a result, the Group was required to make a remains appropriate.
judgement regarding the fair value of the investment and whether the investment, once the loan had converted, 1.1.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements represented an investment in associate due to the potential to In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the participate in financial and operating policy decisions of directors are required to make judgements, estimates and the entity.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are Evidence to support the fair value of the investment was considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these limited: however it was concluded that the cost of 3.5m was estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are a reasonable approximation of the fair value of the reviewed on an ongoing basis.
On providing notice to convert the loan, the estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is Group considered whether it had the ability to exert revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period significant influence over decisions made by the entity.
It of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both concluded this was not the case and therefore the convertible current and future periods.
loan has been recognised as an investment.
Critical accounting judgements The Group will continue to monitor the recoverability of the The following are the critical accounting judgements, apart investment and notes that IFRS 9 is applicable to the next set from those involving estimates which are dealt with of financial statements.
The unquoted investment will separately below that the directors have made in the process therefore require its fair value to be reassessed in of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the future periods.
com | 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued c Determination of the fair values of intangible assets and 1 General information contingent consideration andaccounting policies The Group estimates the fair value of acquired intangible assets arising from business combinations by selecting and continued applying appropriate valuation methods.
These include the d Contingent assets and liabilities relief from royalty and multi-period excess earnings valuation Management is required to apply judgement in assessing the methods, both of which require significant judgements and probability of the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or estimates to be made.
Examples include estimating expected more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of cash flows and identifying appropriate royalty and discount the Group.
This judgement is supported by external advice rates.
The fair value of each acquired intangible asset is and precedent case law where appropriate and is continually amortised over the respective assets estimated useful life.
The assessed to ensure that developments are appropriately Group uses projected financial information together with reflected in the financial statements.
Further details of comparable industry information, where available, as well as contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 30.
There were no applying its own experience and knowledge of the industry in contingent assets identified in the current year.
making such judgements and estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Contingent consideration is initially recognised at fair value The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk and subsequently reassessed at each reporting date to reflect of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of changes in estimates and assumptions.
The determination of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
fair value requires an assessment of the future performance of a relatively immature business operating in a high growth a Estimated impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and market and is therefore inherently volatile.
The Group has property, plant and equipment estimated the fair value using projected financial information.
Details of the Groups accounting policy in relation to The range of potential outcomes is disclosed in note 32. impairments and impairment reversals are disclosed in note1.13.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The application of the policy requires the use of accounting a Standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing estimates and judgements in determining the recoverable standards adopted by the Group amount of cash-generating units to which the goodwill, The Group has not been materially impacted by the adoption intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are of any standards.
The Group has not early adopted any associated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair standard, amendment or interpretation that was issued but is value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Estimates of fair not yet effective.
value less costs of disposal are performed internally by b Standards, amendments to and interpretations of existing experienced senior management supported by knowledge of standards that are not yet effective similar transactions and advice from external experts or, if IFRS 16 Leases represents a significant change, notably for applicable, offers received.
Value in use is calculated using lessees, in how leases are accounted for and reported.
The estimated cash flow projections from financial budgets, standard will be effective for the Group for the period discounted by selecting an appropriate rate for each cashbeginning 1 July 2019, and will replace IAS 17 Leases.
Further details of the assumptions, estimates will require all lessees to recognise a right-of-use asset and lease and sensitivity are disclosed in note 12. liability for all leases, except for leases with a lease term of 12 The Company also tests annually the carrying value of its months or less or where the underlying asset is of low value.
The application of this policy The Group expects the standard to apply to the majority of its requires the use of estimates and judgements in determining operating lease commitments and to have a material impact on the recoverable amount of the subsidiary undertakings.
The the Groups reported results and balance sheet.
The recognition recoverable amount is determined by applying an estimated of right of use assets and lease liabilities will result in an valuation multiple to budgeted future earnings of the increase in total assets and total liabilities reported.
Within the subsidiary along with consideration of the underlying income statement, the current rent expense will be replaced net assets.
with a depreciation and interest expense.
The standard will also b Property related provisions impact a number of statutory reporting measures such as Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy operating profit and cash generated from operations, as well as disclosed in note 1.10.
Managements judgement is that the alternative performance measures used by the Group.
cost provided represents the lower of the cost of fulfilling the The full impact of IFRS 16 on the Group is currently being contract or the cost of exiting the contract.
In calculating assessed, including the practical application of the principles property lease provisions, estimates are made of the of the standard to the Groups leases, and it is therefore not discounted cash flows associated with the property and its yet possible to provide a reasonable estimate of its effect.
The associated operations, including sub-let income, together with Groups current operating lease commitments on an estimates of any dilapidation obligations.
Further details of undiscounted basis under IAS 17 are disclosed in note 29. provisions made are disclosed in note 21.
The majority of committed future lease expense is for rental payments on IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from property.
Details of total committed lease payments are Contracts with Customers will be effective for our next disclosed in note 29. financial reporting period.
The Group does not anticipate a material impact on the results or net assets from these standards or any other standards that are in issue but not yet effective.
116 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 1.2 Consolidation period see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if statements of the parent and its subsidiaries as at 30 June known, would have affected the amounts recognised at 2018.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has that date.
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its Acquisition costs incurred are expensed as exceptional items.
Specifically the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has a power over the 1.4 Revenue recognition investee, b exposure, or rights, to variable returns from the Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and investee, and c ability to use its power to affect those returns.
services net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if a Gaming win facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one Revenue for casinos includes gaming win before deduction of or more of the three elements of control.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on before deduction of gaming-related duties.
Revenue for poker transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Revenue for digital products, Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction including interactive games, represents gaming win before provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The fair value of free bets, Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have been promotions and customer bonuses customer incentives are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the also deducted from all revenue streams.
policies adopted by the Group.
Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win other than from The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
poker and bingo is accounted for and meets the definition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 1.3 Business combinations and goodwill Measurement.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition b Food and beverage method.
The consideration transferred in a business Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the combination is measured at the acquisition date and point of sale.
represents the aggregate fair value of assets transferred and liabilities incurred.
1.5 Segment reporting Amounts payable in respect of deferred or contingent Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with consideration are recognised at fair value at the acquisition the internal reporting provided to the chief operating date and included in consideration transferred.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is subsequent unwind of any discount is recognised as an responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance exceptional finance cost in the income statement.
Changes in of the operating segments, has been identified as the the fair value of contingent consideration recognised as a management team the composition of which is disclosed on financial liability that qualify as measurement period page 54, which makes strategic and operational decisions.
adjustments being 12 months from the acquisition date are The Group currently reports five segments: Grosvenor Venues, adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments Mecca Venues, UK Digital, Enracha and Central Costs.
Material changes that do not qualify as acquisition of QSB Gaming Limited YoBingo has been measurement period adjustments are recognised as an included within Enracha.
exceptional item is in the income statement.
1.6 Foreign currency translation When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK assets acquired and liabilities assumed for appropriate sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
classification and designation in accordance with the Items included in the financial statements of each of the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent Groups entities are measured using the currency of the conditions as at the acquisition date.
primary economic environment in which the entity operates Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the the functional currency.
aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the a Transactions and balances consideration transferred over the fair value of the net Foreign currency transactions are translated into the identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from from goodwill.
the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the recognised in the income statement in finance costs assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the business or income.
acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
b Group companies If the initial accounting for a business combination is The results and financial position of all the Group companies incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts economy that have a functional currency different from the for items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those presentation currency are translated into the presentation provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement currency as follows: www.
com | 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued b Cash and cash equivalents 1 General information Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet include andaccounting policies cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
continued For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are The closing euro rate against UK sterling was 1.13 30 shown within loans and borrowings in current liabilities on June 2017: 1.14 and the closing US dollar rate against the balance sheet.
UK sterling was 1.32 30 June 2017: 1.30 : c Other investments ii income and expenses for each income statement are These include equity investments that are not considered to translated at average exchange rates unless this average is represent an investments in associate, joint venture or not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect subsidiary.
Other investments are considered available for sale of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which and are held at fair value if this can be reliably measured.
If case income and expenses are translated at the rates the equity instruments are not quoted in an active market prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
The average and their fair value cannot be reliably measured, the availableeuro rate against UK sterling was 1.13 year ended 30 for-sale investment is carried at cost, less June 2017: 1.16 and the average US dollar rate against accumulated impairment.
UK sterling in the year was 1.35 year ended 30 June 2017: 1.27 : and d Investment in subsidiaries Company only Investment in subsidiaries are held at cost less impairment.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
1.8 Financial liabilities When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as are recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on and borrowings or as derivatives designated as hedging the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the determines the classification of its financial liabilities at closing rate.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under 1.7 Financial assets the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other receivables, held to maturity investments, available for sale payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging contingent consideration, and financial guarantee contracts.
instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group a Trade and other payables determines the classification of its financial assets at Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and initial recognition.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive the interest method.
cash flows from the asset have expired, been transferred or an b Loans and borrowings obligation to pay the cash flows received to a third party After initial recognition at fair value net of any directly without material delay has been assumed, and either: attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using been transferred: or the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been derecognised as well as through the effective interest rate retained nor transferred, but control has been transferred.
The Groups financial assets include loans and receivables and Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any cash and cash equivalents.
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are a Loans and receivables an integral part of the effective interest rate method.
The Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with effective interest rate method amortisation is included in fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an finance costs in the income statement.
They are included in current assets, when the c Contingent consideration asset is expected to be realised in the normal operating cycle, Amounts payable in respect of contingent consideration are otherwise they are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and recognised at fair value on the acquisition date.
Subsequent receivables are classified as other receivables in the changes in the fair value of contingent consideration balance sheet.
recognised as a financial liability that qualify as measurement Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and period adjustments being 12 months from the acquisition subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective date are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding interest method, less provision for impairment.
Changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement.
118 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS d Financial guarantee contracts Company only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item those contracts that require a payment to be made to can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified are charged to the income statement during the financial debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with period in which they are incurred.
the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts Depreciation is calculated on assets using the straight-line are initially measured at fair value by applying the estimated method to allocate their cost less residual values over their probability of default to the cash outflow should default occur estimated useful lives, as follows: and subsequently amortising over the expected length of the Freehold and leasehold property 50 years or lease guarantee, to the extent that the guarantee is not expected to term if less be called.
Subsequently, the liability is measured the higher of Refurbishment of property 5 to 20 years or the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the lease term if lower present obligation at the reporting date or the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
Fixtures, fittings, plant 3 to 20 years and machinery 1.9 Leases Leases are tested at inception to determine whether the lease Land is not depreciated.
is a finance or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each balance Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of sheet date, and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
buildings within a single contract are split into their two An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised component parts before testing.
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are a Finance leases expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on Leases of property, plant and equipment which transfer derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are the asset is included in the income statement.
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the as incurred.
present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges 1.12 Intangible assets so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the a Goodwill remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups included in loans and borrowings.
Finance charges are share of the net identifiable assets less the liabilities assumed recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
annually for impairment and is allocated to the relevant b Operating leases cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units for the Leases of property, plant and equipment which do not purpose of impairment testing.
A cash-generating unit is the transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash the Group are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease inflows, that are largely independent of the cash inflows from payments including any lease incentives or premiums are other assets or groups of assets.
After initial recognition, recognised as an expense in the income statement on a goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated straight-line basis over the lease term.
b Casino and other gaming licences and concessions 1.10 Provisions The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal licences and concessions.
Management believes that casino or constructive obligation as a result of past events if it is and other gaming licences have indefinite lives as there is no more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be expected to generate net cash inflows and each licence holds a reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the best value outside the property in which it resides.
Each licence is estimate of the expenditures required to settle the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects, where In respect of the concession in Belgium, the carrying value is appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where amortised over the expected useful life of the concession.
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the c Software and development passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Costs that are directly associated with the production and development of identifiable and unique software products 1.11 Property, plant and equipment controlled by the Group, and that are expected to generate Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Such cost includes recognised as intangible assets for both externally purchased expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of and internally developed software.
Direct costs include the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying specific employee costs for software development.
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only www.
com | 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued any remaining impairment is allocated equally amongst all 1 General information other assets.
andaccounting policies Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying continued amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the Software acquired as part of a business combination is extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
the carrying amount that would have been determined had Costs associated with maintaining computer software no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cashprograms are recognised as an expense as incurred.
generating unit in prior years.
Reversals are allocated pro-rata across all assets in the cash-generating unit unless there is an d Brands indication that a class of asset should be reversed in the first These assets represent the fair value of brands and trade-mark instance or a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
A assets acquired in business combinations at the reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income acquisition date.
e Customer relationships An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is never reversed This line item represents the fair value of customer relations in subsequent periods.
acquired in business combinations at the acquisition date.
1.14 Employee benefit costs f Property contracts These sums represent the fair value of favourable property a Pension obligations contracts acquired in business combinations at the The Group operates a defined contribution plan under which acquisition date.
the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are estimated useful life of intangible assets unless such lives are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment Casino and other gaming licences Indefinite relating to three former executives of the Group.
The amount Casino concession Concession term recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet Software and development 3 to 5 years date, together with adjustment for actuarial gains or losses.
Brands 10 years The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses immediately Customer relationships 4 years in the statement of other comprehensive income.
The interest cost arising on the commitment is recognised in net Property contracts Lease term finance costs.
1.13 Impairment of intangible assets and property, b Share-based compensation plant and equipment The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to awards is measured by reference to the fair value at the date amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment using an appropriate pricing model.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together the carrying amount may not be recoverable or where they with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in indicate a previously recognised impairment may no longer which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled be required.
The cumulative expense recognised for An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which an equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of costs of disposal and value in use.
For the purposes of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels statement expense or credit for a period represents the for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the cash-generating units.
The expected cash flows generated by beginning and end of that period.
the assets are discounted using appropriate discount rates that No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately reflect the time value of money and risks associated with the vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is groups of assets.
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount of are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense in other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are Any impairment is allocated pro-rata across all assets in a modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as cash-generating unit unless there is an indication that a class if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of of assets should be impaired in the first instance or a fair the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for market value exists for one or more assets.
Once an asset has any modification that increases the total fair value of the been written down to its fair value less costs of disposal then 120 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to b Deferred tax the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet statements.
However, if deferred tax arises from the initial recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the a business combination, that at the time of the transaction control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and award, and designated as a replacement award on the date laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related if they were a modification of the original award, as described deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled is settled.
transaction awards are treated equally, regardless of whether the entity or the employee cancels the award.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as which the temporary differences can be utilised.
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets The proceeds received net of any directly attributable against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value settle these on a net basis.
and share premium when the options are exercised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on c Share-based compensation Company investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the The Company operates share-based payment schemes for reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will of shares awarded to employees of the Company are not reverse in the foreseeable future.
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The Company also makes awards of its c Sales tax own shares to employees of its subsidiaries and as such Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its amount of sales tax except: subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries financial services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in statements, with the corresponding credit being recognised which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of directly in equity.
acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as d Bonus plans applicable: and The Group recognises a liability in respect of the best estimate for receivables and payables that are stated with the amount of bonuses payable where contractually obliged to do so or of sales tax included.
where a past practice has created a constructive obligation.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, 1.15 Inventories the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable payables in the balance sheet.
Cost of inventory is determined on a first-in, first- 1.17 Share capital out basis.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The cost of finished goods comprises goods purchased for resale.
1.18 Dividends Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid at Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the the period end are not recognised in the financial statements ordinary course of business.
When necessary, provision is until they have been approved by shareholders at the annual made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
1.16 Taxation 1.19 Exceptional items a Current tax The Group separately discloses those items which are required Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior to give a full understanding of the Groups financial periods are measured as the amount expected to be paid or to performance and aid comparability of the Groups result be recovered from the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and between periods.
Exceptional items are considered by the tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are directors to require separate disclosure due to their size or enacted, or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
nature in relation to the Group.
Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not the income statement.
Management evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation at each reporting date and establishes provisions where appropriate.
com | 121 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting a Segment information operating segments YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Grosvenor Mecca Central Venues Venues UK Digital Enracha Costs Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue before adjustment for customer incentives 373.0 208.1 122.5 37.5 741.1 Customer incentives 13.0 9.1 27.9 0.1 50.1 Statutory revenue 360.0 199.0 94.6 37.4 691.0 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 48.6 28.6 20.9 6.5 27.6 77.0 Exceptional loss profit 23.4 3.7 0.2 1.2 1.2 26.9 Segment result 25.2 24.9 21.1 7.7 28.8 50.1 Finance costs 3.3 Finance income 0.3 Other financial losses 0.4 Profit before taxation 46.7 Taxation 10.8 Profit for the year 35.9 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 9.2 5.3 9.0 1.0 12.5 37.0 Depreciation and amortisation 22.0 11.6 4.2 1.9 3.3 43.0 Items disclosed as exceptional Impairment charges 9.8 3.4 0.7 13.9 Impairment reversals 1.8 1.8 Group restructuring including relocation costs 0.3 0.5 0.2 1.0 1.6 Onerous lease and other property costs income 9.0 0.3 0.2 9.1 Closure of venues 4.3 0.5 0.1 3.7 Acquisition related costs 0.4 0.4 122 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Year ended 30 June 2017 Grosvenor Mecca Central Venues Venues UK Digital Enracha Costs Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue before adjustment for customer incentives 397.2 213.6 111.5 32.8 755.1 Customer incentives 14.9 10.0 23.0 47.9 Statutory revenue 382.3 203.6 88.5 32.8 707.2 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 52.1 29.9 22.7 6.2 27.4 83.5 Exceptional loss profit 5.2 11.2 2.0 0.6 3.6 1.0 Segment result 46.9 41.1 20.7 6.8 31.0 84.5 Finance costs 4.4 Finance income 0.2 Other financial losses 0.6 Profit before taxation 79.7 Taxation 16.8 Profit for the year 62.9 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 17.1 9.3 2.3 1.2 12.8 42.7 Depreciation and amortisation 24.5 11.9 5.1 1.5 2.3 45.3 Items disclosed as exceptional Impairment charges 5.2 0.3 1.2 6.7 Impairment reversals 0.7 1.8 2.5 Group restructuring including relocation costs 1.8 0.2 2.0 4.8 8.8 Onerous lease and other property income 1.1 11.7 1.9 14.7 Acquisition related costs 0.7 0.7 The Group reports segmental information on the basis by which the chief operating decision-maker utilises internal reporting within the business.
On 21 May 2018 QSB Gaming Limited YoBingo was acquired, the trading results include 1.4m of statutory revenue and 0.3m of operating profit since acquisition and this has been included within the Enracha reporting segment.
Following the acquisition and a change in the chief operating decision-maker it is intended that internal reporting will be revisited and it is likely that the key reported segments may be amended in the next financial year.
Any changes will be disclosed in our interim statements.
Assets and liabilities have not been segmented as this information is not provided to the chief operating decision-maker on a regular basis.
Capital expenditure comprises cash expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
b Geographical information The Group operates in two main geographical areas UK and Continental Europe.
i Revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m UK 643.2 659.4 Continental Europe 47.8 47.8 Total revenue 691.0 707.2 www.
com | 123 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued ii Non-current assets by geographical area based on location of assets As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m UK 553.4 565.3 Continental Europe 80.7 34.1 Segment non-current assets 634.1 599.4 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets 0.4 0.1 Financial assets 3.7 6.5 Total non-current assets 638.2 606.0 With the exception of the UK no individual country contributed more than 15% of consolidated sales or assets.
c Total cost analysis by segment To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment.
Areconciliation of total costs, before exceptional items, by type and segment is as follows: YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Grosvenor Mecca Central Venues Venues UK Digital Enracha Costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 133.4 52.2 12.1 15.3 18.4 231.4 Taxes and duties 75.2 33.2 15.0 2.5 1.8 127.7 Direct costs 18.6 20.9 28.0 4.1 71.6 Property costs 32.1 26.9 0.5 1.3 1.6 62.4 Marketing 14.5 8.7 7.8 1.3 32.3 Depreciation and amortisation 22.0 11.6 4.2 1.9 3.3 43.0 Other 15.6 16.9 6.1 4.5 2.5 45.6 Total costs before exceptional items 311.4 170.4 73.7 30.9 27.6 614.0 Cost of sales 376.6 Operating costs 237.4 Total costs before exceptional items 614.0 Year ended 30 June 2017 Grosvenor Mecca Central Venues Venues UK Digital Enracha Costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 140.2 53.7 9.2 13.8 21.1 238.0 Taxes and duties 82.7 33.5 10.6 1.8 1.8 130.4 Direct costs 17.2 20.4 27.4 3.5 68.5 Property costs 30.1 27.3 0.7 1.4 1.3 60.8 Marketing 13.7 8.4 9.1 1.0 0.2 32.4 Depreciation and amortisation 24.5 11.9 5.1 1.5 2.3 45.3 Other 21.8 18.5 3.7 3.6 0.7 48.3 Total costs before exceptional items 330.2 173.7 65.8 26.6 27.4 623.7 Cost of sales 391.4 Operating costs 232.3 Total costs before exceptional items 623.7 124 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 3 Profit for the year analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit for the year before financing and taxation from continuing operations: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Employee benefit expense 214.3 221.1 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 29.9 36.9 Amortisation of intangibles 9.5 9.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets including 30.1m year ended 30 June 2017: 33.8m within cost of sales 32.3 34.9 under finance leases included within cost of sales 1.2 0.9 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 46.9 45.6 sub-lease income 4.1 4.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.9 Impairment of intangible assets 0.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.5 Exceptional operating costs income see note 4 26.9 1.0 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.5 0.4 In the year, the Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, including its network firms, earned the following fees: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 other services 0.1 0.2 0.6 0.6 26,000 year ended 30 June 2017: 25,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
Other services include acquisition costs and cyber security advice.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the benefit of taking advice from the leading firm in the area concerned and the desirability of being efficient.
4 Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Note m m Continuing operations Impairment charges 10,11,12 13.9 6.7 Impairment reversals 10,11,12 1.8 2.5 Group restructuring including relocation costs 1.6 8.8 Onerous lease and other property costs income 9.1 14.7 Closure of venues 3.7 Acquisition related costs 32 0.4 0.7 Exceptional operating costs income 26.9 1.0 Finance costs 5 0.3 Other financial losses 5 0.3 Taxation 6 4.9 1.2 Exceptional items 22.6 0.2 It is Group policy to reverse exceptional costs in the same line as they were originally recognised.
com | 125 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Exceptional items continued Year ended 30 June 2018 exceptional items Impairment charges The Group recognised impairment charges of 13.9m, of which 9.8m related to five venues within Grosvenor Casinos, 3.4m related to eight venues within Mecca and 0.7m related to a venue within Enracha.
Performance at these venues most notably admissions has not been in line with expectations and is not expected to significantly improve in the future.
These have been presented as an exceptional item due to both its material scale and one-off nature.
Impairment reversals The Group reversed a 1.8m impairment charge in Enracha due to a reduction in the local gaming tax rate, which has significantly improved performance at one venue.
This has been presented as an exceptional item due to both its material scale and one-off nature.
Group restructuring including relocation costs In the first six months of 2017 18 the Group completed its group restructuring project.
The total cost of the project was 10.4m, of which the remaining 1.6m has been recognised in the current financial year.
Total costs include costs associated with changes to management and team structures at both venue and central levels, the decision to centralise support functions in a new office in Maidenhead and the merging of the separately run brand teams supporting UK Digital into one operational team.
Onerous lease and other property costs The Group has recognised a net charge of 9.1m as a result of committed onerous costs on property leases.
A charge of 9.0m has been recognised within Grosvenor.
Of this charge 8.0m is attributable to two venues where expected improvements in trading results have not been realised and unavoidable committed costs exceed forecast future trading performance, and 1.0m to a potential tenant for a vacant site deciding not to proceed despite advanced negotiations to sub-let the onerous property.
Within Mecca a 0.3m charge has been recognised as a result of an increase in expected onerous costs at four venues and a 0.2m credit has been recognised in Central costs due to revisions in expected future costs and income at onerous multi-let sites.
These costs have been presented as an exceptional item due to both its material scale and one-off nature.
Closure of venues The Group has recognised a net charge of 3.7m as a result of closed clubs.
Grosvenor has recognised a 4.3m charge due to costs associated with closing a loss-making venue for which it is not expected the remaining lease can be sublet.
Mecca has recognised a net credit of 0.5m.
This is due to 0.4m of cost from closing one club having been offset by a 0.6m surrender premium having been received in return for agreeing to exit a lease early at one site and an additional 0.3m overage payment having been received for a site previously disposed of.
Enracha has recognised a net credit of 0.1m due to it having successfully won an employee dispute for unfair dismissal at a disposed of club.
Acquisition related costs Acquisition related costs of 0.4m include one-off costs to professional service firms that have resulted from acquisitions.
The finance cost and foreign exchange loss associated with contingent consideration payable has also been recognised as an exceptional finance cost and exceptional other financial loss.
This has been presented as an exceptional item due to its one-off nature.
Year ended 30 June 2017 exceptional items Impairment charges The Group recognised impairment charges of 6.7m, of which 5.2m related to two venues within Grosvenor Casinos, 0.3m related to a venue within Mecca and 1.2m related to a venue within Enracha.
Performance at these venues has not been in line with expectations and is not expected to significantly improve in the future.
Impairment reversals The Group reversed previous impairment charges of 2.5m, 0.7m of which related to a venue within Grosvenor and 1.8m related to two venues within Enracha.
This reflects a significant improvement in performance following the closure of a competitor and a sustained increase in performance attributed to improvements in the local economic environment within Spain.
Group restructuring including relocation costs In the first six months of 2016 17 the Group carried out a detailed review of its entire UK organisational structure designed to improve customer service and simplify operations.
This has resulted in changes to management and team structures at both venue and central levels, the decision to centralise support functions in a new office in Maidenhead and the merging of the separately run brand teams supporting UK Digital into one operational team.
The cost of this restructure is estimated to be 9.3m, with 8.8m recognised in the current financial year and the balance expected to be incurred in the first six months of 2017 18.
The costs incurred include 5.2m of redundancy costs, 2.2m of onerous lease costs, 0.6m of tangible asset impairment, 0.5m of loss on disposal of tangible assets and 0.3m of legal and professional fees.
Costs by segment were 1.8m Grosvenor Venues, 0.2m Mecca Venues, 2.0m UK Digital and 4.8m Central Costs.
126 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Onerous lease and other property income The total net credit was 14.7m: 11.7m was recognised in Mecca.
This includes 10.7m following the successful surrender of an onerous lease at a Mecca venue in exchange for a cash payment of 2.0m, 1.4m due to the renegotiation of lease terms at a venue, offset by a 0.4m charge from increasing the required provision at three venues: 1.1m was recognised in Grosvenor.
This included a 1.0m credit due to advanced negotiation to sub-let an onerous lease, 0.3m due to a final settlement agreed on a previously leased venue, offset by a 0.2m charge for a venue that required a full onerous lease: and 1.9m was recognised in Central costs for multi-let venues.
This included a credit of 1.5m due to the renegotiation of an onerous lease, 0.8m due to additional sub-let income from a tenant at one of the sites, offset by a 0.4m charge due to a reduction in variable rent expectation.
Acquisition related costs Central costs includes 0.7m of aborted acquisition cost that were paid to professional service firms.
5 Financing Year ended Year ended 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 m m Continuing operations Finance costs: 1 Interest on debt and borrowings 1.9 2.6 1 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 0.4 0.4 Interest payable on finance leases 0.5 0.6 Unwinding of discount on property lease provisions 0.2 0.8 Total finance costs 3.0 4.4 Finance income: 1 Interest income on short-term bank deposits 0.2 0.1 1 Interest income on loans 0.1 0.1 Total finance income 0.3 0.2 Other financial losses 0.1 0.6 Total net financing charge before exceptional items 2.8 4.8 Exceptional finance costs 0.3 Exceptional other financial losses 0.3 Total net financing charge 3.4 4.8 1.
Calculated using the effective interest method.
Other financial losses include foreign exchange losses on loans and borrowings.
Exceptional finance costs and other financial losses includes interest recognised and foreign exchange loss on contingent and deferred consideration payable as a result of the acquisition of QSB Gaming Limited YoBingo.
A reconciliation of total net financing charge before exceptional items to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 m m Total net financing charge before exceptional items 2.8 4.8 Adjust for : Other financial losses 0.1 0.6 Adjusted net interest payable 2.7 4.2 www.
com | 127 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Taxation Year ended Year ended 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 11.3 11.8 Current income tax overseas 3.7 3.4 Current income tax on exceptional items 3.0 1.8 Amounts over provided in previous period 0.1 0.5 Total current income tax charge 11.9 16.5 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 0.5 1.3 Deferred tax overseas 0.3 Restatement of deferred tax due to rate change 1.1 Deferred tax on exceptional items 1.9 0.6 Amounts under provided in previous period 0.3 0.4 Total deferred tax credit charge note 20 1.1 0.3 Tax charge in the income statement 10.8 16.8 The tax on the Groups profit before taxation differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax in the period of 19.00% year ended 30 June 2017: 19.75%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation on continuing operations 46.7 79.7 Tax charge calculated at 19.00% on profit before taxation year ended 30 June 2017: 19.75% 8.9 15.7 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.9 2.2 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.2 0.1 Restatement of deferred tax due to rate change 1.1 Adjustments relating to prior periods 0.2 0.1 Tax charge in the income statement 10.8 16.8 Tax on exceptional items The taxation impacts of exceptional items are disclosed below: YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Year ended 30 June 2017 Current Deferred Current income tax tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Impairment charges 2.3 2.3 1.0 1.0 Impairment reversals 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 Group restructuring including relocation costs 0.3 0.3 1.5 0.1 1.6 Onerous lease and other property costs income 1.7 1.7 3.3 3.3 Closure of venues 0.9 0.9 Finance costs and other financial losses 0.1 0.1 Tax credit charge on exceptional items 3.0 1.9 4.9 1.8 0.6 1.2 128 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Current income tax credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.2 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benefits 0.1 Total tax credit on items within other comprehensive income 0.3 The debit in respect of employee share schemes included within the statement of changes in equity includes a deferred tax credit of 0.1m year ended 30 June 2017: 0.1m.
Factors affecting future taxation UK corporation tax is calculated at 19.00% year ended 30 June 2017: 19.75% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Taxation for overseas operations is calculated at the local prevailing rates.
On 8 July 2015, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 19.00% for the year starting 1 April 2017 and a further 1.00% reduction to 18.00% from 1 April 2020.
These changes were substantively enacted in October 2015.
On 16 March 2016, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a further 1.00% reduction to the previously announced 18.00% main rate of UK corporation tax to 17.00% from 1 April 2020.
This change was substantively enacted in September 2016.
The rate reductions will reduce the amount of cash tax payments to be made by the Group.
On 26 July 2017, the Belgian Government announced the reduction in the corporation tax rate in Belgium from 33.99% to 29.58% for financial years beginning in 2018 and to 25.00% for financial years beginning in 2020 and onwards.
These changes were substantively enacted in December 2017.
7 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The profit for the year ended 30 June 2018 for the Company was 275.9m year ended 30 June 2017: loss of 17.1m.
The profit includes receipt of a dividend of 549.4m year ended 30 June 2017: nil and a net impairment charge of 262.8m year ended 30 June 2017: nil in respect of its investment in subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in note 13.
8 Dividends paid to equity holders Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Final dividend for 2015 16 paid on 20 October 2016 4.70p per share 18.4 Interim dividend for 2016 17 paid on 21 March 2017 2.00p per share 7.8 Final dividend for 2016 17 paid on 31 October 2017 5.30p per share 20.7 Interim dividend for 2017 18 paid on 15 March 2018 2.15p per share 8.4 Dividends paid to equity holders 29.1 26.2 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.2 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2018 of 5.3p per share, amounting to a total dividend of 20.7m, is to be recommended at the Annual General Meeting on 18 October 2018.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
com | 129 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Year ended 30 June 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 58.5m 22.6 m 35.9m 63.1m 0.2 m 62.9m Total 58.5m 22.6 m 35.9m 63.1m 0.2 m 62.9m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m Basic earnings loss per share Continuing operations 15.0p 5.8 p 9.2p 16.2p 0.1 p 16.1p Total 15.0p 5.8 p 9.2p 16.2p 0.1 p 16.1p b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 Year ended 30 June 2017 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Weighted average number of ordinary shares inissue 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m 390.7m Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares shareawards 0.4m 0.4m 0.4m 1.6m 1.6m 1.6m Number of shares used for fully diluted earnings per share 391.1m 391.1m 391.1m 392.3m 392.3m 392.3m Basic earnings loss per share Continuing operations 15.0p 5.8 p 9.2p 16.1p 0.1 p 16.0p Total 15.0p 5.8 p 9.2p 16.1p 0.1 p 16.0p c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders 35.9 62.9 Adjust for: Exceptional items after tax 22.6 0.2 Other financial losses 0.1 0.6 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in tax rate 1.2 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders m 58.6 62.5 Adjusted earnings per share p basic 15.0p 16.0p Adjusted earnings per share p diluted 15.0p 15.9p 130 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 10 Intangible assets Casino and other gaming Software Brands and licences and and customer Property Goodwill concessions development relationships contracts Total Group m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2016 134.3 274.9 59.1 3.8 472.1 Exchange adjustments 2.6 2.6 Disposals 24.3 24.3 Additions 14.3 14.3 At 30 June 2017 134.3 277.5 49.1 3.8 464.7 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.9 Disposals 3.9 3.9 Additions 0.5 11.6 12.1 Acquisitions 31.9 3.5 11.4 46.8 At 30 June 2018 166.6 278.4 60.3 11.5 3.8 520.6 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 July 2016 31.7 35.1 1.0 67.8 Exchange adjustments 1.9 1.9 Charge for the year 1.2 8.1 0.2 9.5 Impairment charges 0.1 0.1 Impairment reversals 1.8 1.8 Disposals 24.3 24.3 At 30 June 2017 33.0 19.0 1.2 53.2 Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 Charge for the year 1.2 7.7 0.2 0.4 9.5 Impairment charges 3.3 0.4 3.7 Impairment reversals 1.2 1.2 Disposals 3.9 3.9 At 30 June 2018 36.5 23.2 0.2 1.6 61.5 Net book value at 30 June 2016 134.3 243.2 24.0 2.8 404.3 Net book value at 30 June 2017 134.3 244.5 30.1 2.6 411.5 Net book value at 30 June 2018 166.6 241.9 37.1 11.3 2.2 459.1 Impairment charges for the year of 3.7m 30 June 2017: 0.1m comprise of 3.4m 30 June 2017: 0.1m recognised in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations and 0.3m 30 June 2017: nil in respect of operating profit before exceptional items.
The impairment reversal for the year of 1.2m 30 June 2017: 1.8m has been recognised as an exceptional item.
Software includes internally-generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 22.2m 30 June 2017: 20.4m.
Property contracts, brands and customer relationships are fair value adjustments that arose on acquisition.
Included in software and development are assets in the course of construction of 15.0m 30 June 2017: 12.2m.
This includes9.2m from the development of a single account and wallet solution and 2.8m for a replacement content management system.
Indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 12. www.
com | 131 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings, Land and plant and buildings machinery Total Group m m m Cost At 1 July 2016 127.8 528.2 656.0 Exchange adjustments 0.8 3.9 4.7 Additions 1.1 28.0 29.1 Disposals 13.0 126.5 139.5 At 30 June 2017 116.7 433.6 550.3 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.6 0.7 Additions 8.5 18.9 27.4 Disposals 0.4 8.2 8.6 At 30 June 2018 124.9 444.9 569.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 July 2016 72.3 381.7 454.0 Exchange adjustments 3.2 3.2 Charge for the year 4.2 31.6 35.8 Impairment charges 0.6 7.1 7.7 Impairment reversals 0.7 0.7 Disposals 12.3 125.3 137.6 At 30 June 2017 64.8 297.6 362.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.5 0.6 Charge for the year 4.0 29.5 33.5 Impairment charges 1.7 9.0 10.7 Impairment reversals 0.6 0.6 Disposals 0.1 8.2 8.3 At 30 June 2018 70.5 327.8 398.3 Net book value at 30 June 2016 55.5 146.5 202.0 Net book value at 30 June 2017 51.9 136.0 187.9 Net book value at 30 June 2018 54.4 117.1 171.5 Impairment charges for the year of 10.7m 30 June 2017: 7.7m comprise of 10.5m 30 June 2017: 7.2m which has been recognised in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations and 0.2m 30 June 2017: 0.5m in respect of operating profit before exceptional items.
The impairment reversal for the year of 0.6m 30 June 2017: 0.7m has been recognised as an exceptional item.
Finance leases The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Land and buildings 3.5 4.2 Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 1.4 1.9 Net book value at end of period 4.9 6.1 There were no additions to assets held under finance leases in the year year ended 30 June 2017: 2.1m, nor where there any disposals to assets held under finance leases in the year year ended 30 June 2017: 0.5m.
Assets under construction Included in property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction of 6.2m 30 June 2017: 7.6m.
132 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 12 Impairment reviews At 30 June 2018, the Group had the following goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life: As at 30 June As at 30 June 2018 2017 m m UK Digital goodwill 53.4 53.4 Grosvenor casino goodwill 80.9 80.9 Spanish digital goodwill 32.3 Total goodwill 166.6 134.3 Casino licences 229.1 231.9 Spanish bingo licences 11.0 9.7 Total casino and other gaming licences 240.1 241.6 In note 10 1.8m 30 June 2017: 2.9m of casino and other gaming licences relate to definite life assets.
The Group performs an annual impairment review for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, by comparing the carrying amount of these assets with their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
The nature of the test requires that the directors exercise judgement and estimation.
The most recent test was conducted at 1 May 2018.
Testing is carried out by allocating the carrying value of these assets to cash-generating units CGUs and determining the recoverable amounts of those CGUs.
Where the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of the assets, the assets are considered not impaired.
If there are legacy impairments for such assets, these are considered for reversal.
Value-in-use calculations are based upon estimates of future cash flows derived from the Groups annual budget for the next financial year and the Groups strategic plan for the following two years.
The budget and strategic plan are updated in April and have been approved by the board of directors.
Future cash flows will also include an estimate of long-term growth rates, which are estimated by division.
Discount rates are applied to each CGUs cash flows and reflect both the time value of money and the risks that apply to the cash flows of that CGU.
These are estimated by management based on typical debt and equity costs for listed gaming and betting companies with similar risk profiles.
The discount rates are calculated on a pre-tax basis and the calculations incorporate estimates of the tax rates that will apply to the future cash flows of the applicable CGU.
The principal assumptions underlying the CGU cash flow forecasts include: the underlying business model will continue to operate on a comparable basis, adjusted for expected regulatory or tax changes and planned business initiatives: recent growth or decline trends in customer visits and spend per visit will continue, adjusted for changes in the business model or expected changes in the wider industry or economy: CGUs will achieve normal win margins, which are based upon historic experience: expenses are assessed separately by category through a bottom-up process.
Assumptions include an extrapolation of recent cost inflation trends, known inflation trends such as the national living wage and an expectation that costs will be incurred in line with agreed contractual rates.
The other significant assumptions incorporated into impairment reviews are those relating to discount rates and longterm growth.
Long-term Discount growth rate rate Grosvenor casinos 11.5% 2% Mecca 11.5% 0% Enracha 13.0% 2% UK Digital 11.0% 2% Where a CGU does not have an indefinite life intangible, the CGU is only assessed for impairment where an indicator of impairment to the associated definite life intangible and or property, plant and equipment is identified.
During the period, the following indicators of impairment were identified at several CGUs: a significant increase in competition within the local economic environment a sustained period of club underperformance During the period, the following indicators of reversal were identified: a significant reduction in the regional gaming tax rate where the club operates www.
com | 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Impairment reviews continued The approach to determine recoverable amounts for a CGU where an indicator is present remains the same and is determined based on the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
As a result of the procedures outlined above, the following impairment charges and reversals were recognised during the year: Impairments recognised Impairment reversals Continuing Continuing Exceptional operation Exceptional operation loss loss loss loss m profit profit profit profit Total Property, plant and equipment Grosvenor Venues 6.6 0.1 6.7 Mecca Venues 3.2 0.1 3.3 Enracha 0.7 0.6 0.1 Intangible assets Grosvenor Venues 3.2 0.3 3.5 Mecca Venues 0.2 0.2 Enracha 1.2 1.2 Total 13.9 0.5 1.8 12.6 Sensitivity of impairment review For CGUs reviewed at 1 May 2018, no impairment would occur under any reasonable possible changes in assumptions upon which the recoverable amount was estimated, other than a 15% decrease in future cash flows would lead to a 10.3m impairment within the Grosvenor Venues segment.
13 Investments As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Group available-for-sale investment m m Other investment conversion of convertible loan 3.5 Net book value at end of year 3.5 On 4 June 2018 the Group exercised its right to convert 3.5m of principal loan notes due from its digital platform provider into 17.18% of their share capital.
Due to the Group having an irrevocable right to the shares and notice having been issued pre-year end the loan has been recognised as an investment as at 30 June 2018, and share certificates were received on 6 July 2018.
The Group considered whether it had significant influence over its digital platform provider but concluded this was not the case and therefore the holding is not considered an investment in an associate.
Based on the latest known financial performance and knowledge of the intellectual property that has been developed the fair value of the investment is considered to equate to its cost.
As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Company investment in subsidiaries m m Cost At start of year 1,452.5 1,518.7 Movements 0.2 0.5 Transfer of investment 65.7 At end of year 1,452.3 1,452.5 Provision for impairment At start of year 57.7 77.0 Impairment charge 286.7 Impairment reversal 23.9 Transfer of investment 19.3 At end of year 320.5 57.7 Net book value at end of year 1,131.8 1,394.8 As part of a project to simplify the Groups organisational structure and to increase reserves available for distribution in the current year, the Company recognised an impairment charge of 286.7m due to the receipt of a 549.4m dividend from a subsidiary.
There was also an impairment reversal of 23.9m due to an increase in the assessed value of one of its subsidiaries.
Finally, the Company recognised a 0.2m reduction in cost which related to the movement in fair value of services, recognised by subsidiary undertakings, arising from equity-settled share awards granted as part of the LTIP reward by the Company.
A list of all the Company investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, registered office and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 33.
134 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 14 Inventories Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Finished goods 2.5 2.8 There were no write downs of inventory in either year.
15 Other receivables Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Current Other receivables 8.2 5.4 Less: provisions for impairment of other receivables 0.3 0.1 Other receivables net 7.9 5.3 Prepayments 21.3 20.0 29.2 25.3 Non-current Other receivables 3.7 2.8 Convertible loan note 3.7 3.7 6.5 Group The directors consider that the carrying value of other receivables and convertible loan notes approximate to their fair value.
As at 30 June 2018 other receivables of 0.8m 30 June 2017: 0.2m were past due but not impaired.
The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
On 4 June 2018 the Group exercised an option to convert a principal loan of 3.5m into 17.18% of the issued share capital of its UK digital platform provider.
The remaining interest due of 0.3m has been included within other receivables and has been received post year end.
16 Trade and other payables Group Company As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current Trade payables 4.9 11.6 Social security and other taxation 32.0 30.5 Contingent consideration 24.0 Other payables 92.2 86.8 0.1 1.7 Trade and other payables current 153.1 128.9 0.1 1.7 Non-current Deferred consideration 1.7 Other payables 28.9 31.8 Trade and other payables non-current 30.6 31.8 Other payables includes 2.9m current payables 30 June 2017: 2.9m and 28.9m non-current payables 30 June 2017: 31.8m in respect of above market-rent-property contracts acquired through business combinations.
com | 135 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Income tax Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Income tax receivable 0.3 Income tax payable continuing operations 8.3 10.7 Income tax payable discontinued operations 2.0 2.0 Income tax payable 10.3 12.7 Net income tax payable 10.3 12.4 Income tax payable on discontinued operations relates to potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities with historic tax audits.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the issues.
18 Financial assets and liabilities a Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Maturity m m Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts On demand 2.7 2.5 Obligations under finance leases Various 1.5 1.4 Term loans March 2019 50.0 20.0 7.125% Yankee bonds January 2018 10.5 Other current loans Accrued interest July 2018 0.1 0.4 Unamortised facility fees Various 0.1 0.2 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 54.2 34.6 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings Term loans March 2019 50.0 Obligations under finance leases Various 5.5 7.0 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 5.5 57.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 59.7 91.6 Sterling 59.7 81.1 US dollars 10.5 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 59.7 91.6 Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand.
Yankee bonds The Yankee bonds was fully repaid with cash in January 2018.
Term loan facilities Three and a half year facilities totalling 90.0m were signed on 29 September 2015 and consist of three bi-lateral term loans totalling 90.0m.
Interest is payable on a periodic basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facilities carry floating rates of interest which are LIBOR dependent.
20.0m was repaid in the period and the total drawn term loans at 30 June 2018 was 50.0m 30 June 2017: 70.0m.
Revolving credit facilities Five year facilities were signed on 29 September 2015 consisting three multi-currency revolving credit bi-lateral facilities totalling 90.0m.
The facilities carry floating rates of which are LIBOR dependent.
There were no drawings on the multi-currency revolving credit facilities at 30 June 2018, providing the Group with 90.0m of undrawn committed facilities.
136 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Covenants The Group complied with all its covenants during the year.
Company The Company did not hold any external interest-bearing loans or borrowings at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: nil.
The Company holds interest-bearing loans with other Group companies at 30 June 2018 of 353.6m 30 June 2017: 861.5m b Hedging activities The Group has not carried out any hedging activities in either period.
c Fair values The table below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group and Companys financial instruments at 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017.
Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 Group hierarchy m m m m Financial assets: Available for sale Other investment unquoted equity shares Level 3 3.5 3.5 Loans and receivables Other receivables Level 2 1.6 4.1 1.6 4.1 Convertible loan note Level 3 3.7 3.7 Cash and short-term deposits Level 1 50.4 79.0 50.4 79.0 Total 55.5 86.8 55.5 86.8 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings Obligations under finance leases Level 2 7.0 8.4 7.0 8.4 Floating rate borrowings Level 2 50.0 70.0 50.0 70.0 Fixed rate borrowings Level 2 10.5 10.7 Bank overdrafts Level 1 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.5 Other Level 2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables Level 3 78.5 80.3 78.5 80.3 Property leases Level 2 36.0 24.6 36.0 24.6 Contingent consideration Level 3 24.0 24.0 Deferred consideration Level 3 1.7 1.7 Total 200.0 196.4 200.0 196.6 Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 Company hierarchy m m m m Financial assets: Loans and receivables Cash and short-term deposits Level 1 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables Level 3 0.1 1.7 0.1 1.7 Financial guarantee contracts Level 2 1.7 0.9 1.7 0.9 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings Level 2 353.6 861.5 353.6 861.5 Total 355.4 864.1 355.4 684.1 www.
com | 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions are applied: cash and short-term deposits, other receivables, bank overdrafts and other financial liabilities approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is based on price quotations at the reporting date: the fair value of floating rate borrowings and obligations under finance leases approximates to their carrying amounts: and the fair value of onerous property leases and lease disposal settlements approximate to their carrying amount as they are discounted at current rates.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine the carrying value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
19 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The finance committee is supported by the Groups senior management, which advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The finance committee provides assurance that the Groups financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and the financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and risk appetite.
The board of directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the positions at 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017.
The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant.
i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups functional currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The Groups current policy is not to hedge foreign currency risk.
138 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Foreign currency sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of a possible change in the US dollar and euro, with all other variables held constant, to the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Change in foreign exchange rates: 10.0% US$ 1.0 -10.0% US$ 1.2 10.0% euro 0.1 0.1 13.0 3.9 -10.0% euro 0.1 0.1 13.0 3.9 ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Historically the Group had managed its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings.
Due to the current economic climate and the Groups current low level of debt the Group has exercised its right to operate outside the Group policy of maintaining between 40% and 60% of its borrowings at fixed rate of interest.
At 30 June 2018, 12% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 30 June 2017: 21%.
iii Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of loans, borrowings, cash and short-term deposits.
Effect on profit before tax As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Sterling: 100 basis point increase 0.5 0.4 200 basis point increase 1.0 0.8 There was no impact on equity in either year as a consequence of loan arrangements.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
The Group did not enter into any fixed-to-floating or floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps in either year.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for other receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
com | 139 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups treasury department in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the finance director, and may be updated throughout the year subject to the approval of the Groups finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The credit worthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with a minimum rating of BB.
The Group predominantly invests with its lending banks when appropriate.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit and debit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not considered significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any material losses from nonperformance of its counterparties.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced three times a year.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance is reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient headroom exists for at least a 12 month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A three-year forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Groups core debt facilities are the 90.0m 30 June 2017: 90.0m bank facility comprising three bi-lateral bank facilities which expire in September 2020 and the 50.0m 30 June 2017: 70.0m bank facility comprising three bi-lateral bank facilities which expire in March 2019.
The Group proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversified by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
The bank facility interest payments were based on current LIBOR as at the reporting date.
Interest payments on the interest-bearing loans and borrowings have been projected until the instruments mature.
Capital management As a result of the difficult conditions that have developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital have been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of leverage ratio.
The ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including loans and borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and short-term deposits, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations.
140 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS The leverage ratios at 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017 were as follows: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Total loans and borrowings note 18 59.7 91.6 Less: Cash and short-term deposits 50.4 79.0 Less: Accrued interest 0.1 0.4 Less: Unamortised facility fees 0.1 0.2 Net debt 9.3 12.4 Continuing operations Operating profit before exceptional 77.0 83.5 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 43.0 45.3 EBITDA 120.0 128.8 Leverage ratio 0.1 0.1 Taking into consideration both the Groups capital investment requirements and the stability of the wider economic environment, the Group considers its progressive dividend policy to be appropriate.
Collateral The Group did not pledge or hold any collateral at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: nil.
Company The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of its cash and short-term deposits of 0.4m 30 June 2017: 0.4m.
The Company does not have any other significant exposure to financial risks.
20 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 13.6 12.3 Tax losses carried forward 0.4 0.1 Business combinations property lease fair value adjustments 4.0 4.3 Other UK temporary differences 0.8 1.1 Deferred tax assets 18.8 17.8 Deferred tax liabilities: Other overseas temporary differences 7.9 2.4 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 0.5 0.5 Temporary differences on UK casino licences 34.4 34.7 Deferred tax liabilities 42.8 37.6 Net deferred tax liability 24.0 19.8 www.
com | 141 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Deferred tax continued The Company has nil 30 June 2017: nil deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 18.4m 30 June 2017: 17.7m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 0.4 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities 24.4 19.9 Net deferred tax liability 24.0 19.8 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
The Group has overseas tax losses of nil 30 June 2017: nil that are carried forward for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
The Group has UK capital losses carried forward of 783m 30 June 2017: 784m.
These losses are available for offset against future UK chargeable gains.
No deferred tax asset 30 June 2017: nil has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as no further utilisation is currently anticipated.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 30 June 2017: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that any unremitted earnings that do not fall within the dividend exemption introduced in the Finance Act 2009 will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group Year Year ended ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 1.3 0.2 Deferred tax movement on fair-valued assets 0.1 Tax losses 0.3 1.2 Business combinations property lease fair value adjustments 0.3 0.5 Temporary differences on UK casino licences 0.3 1.8 Other temporary differences 0.5 0.7 Total deferred tax credit charge 1.1 0.3 142 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group Company 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m As at start of year 19.8 19.7 0.1 Exchange adjustments 0.1 Acquisition of QSB Gaming Limited YoBingo 5.3 Deferred tax credit charge in the income statement 1.1 0.3 0.1 Deferred tax credit to other comprehensive income and equity 0.1 0.2 As at end of year 24.0 19.8 21 Provisions Property lease Disposal Restructuring Indirect tax provisions provisions provisions provision Total Group m m m m m At 1 July 2017 24.6 4.2 3.7 1.2 33.7 Unwinding of discount 0.2 0.2 Charge to the income statement exceptional 14.3 0.2 14.5 Release to the income statement exceptional 0.7 0.2 0.9 Released to income statement operating 0.1 0.1 Utilised in year 2.4 0.1 3.3 5.8 At 30 June 2018 36.0 4.0 0.4 1.2 41.6 Current 6.2 0.2 0.4 1.2 8.0 Non-current 29.8 3.8 33.6 Total 36.0 4.0 0.4 1.2 41.6 Provisions have been made based on managements best estimate of the future cash flows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation.
Property lease provisions The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property or part of the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have a weighted average unexpired life of 10 years 30 June 2017: 11 years.
Of the provision totalling 36.0m, it is estimated 20.3m will be utilised over periods ranging from one to five years, 10.6m will be utilised over periods ranging from five to 10 years: and the remaining 5.1m will be utilised over periods in excess of 10 years.
com | 143 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Provisions continued Disposal provisions Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of property lease obligations and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any personal injury claims is uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
The disposal provisions held comprise the following: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 3.8 4.0 Other 0.2 0.2 Total disposal provisions 4.0 4.2 Restructuring provisions A provision of 0.4m 30 June 2017: 3.7m has been made for remaining exceptional restructuring and relocation costs.
Indirect tax provision The indirect tax provision relates to an amusement machine licence duty claim by HMRC.
The balance of 1.2m represents the directors best estimate of the outflow likely to arise.
Company Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims.
The disposal provisions held comprise the following: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 1.1 1.2 Other 0.1 0.1 Disposal provisions 1.2 1.3 Current 0.2 0.3 Non-current 1.0 1.0 Total 1.2 1.3 22 Share capital AS AT 30 JUNE 2018 As at 30 June 2017 Nominal Nominal Number value Number value m m m m Authorised ordinary shares of 13 8 9p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 AS AT 30 JUNE 2018 As at 30 June 2017 Nominal Nominal value Number value Number m m m m As at 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2018 issued and fully paid 390.7 54.2 390.7 54.2 144 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 23 Notes to cash flow Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from continuing operations: Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 50.1 84.5 261.8 0.4 Exceptional items 26.9 1.0 262.8 1.4 Operating profit before exceptional items 77.0 83.5 1.0 1.0 Depreciation and amortisation 43.0 45.3 Settlement of share based payments 1.7 0.6 Share-based payments 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.9 Impairment of intangible assets 0.3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.5 Decrease in inventories 0.3 0.1 Increase decrease in other receivables 3.4 11.0 Decrease in trade and other payables 6.4 12.2 0.8 0.5 109.4 128.4 0.6 0.2 Cash utilisation of provisions see note 21 5.8 7.8 0.1 0.1 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 1.2 4.3 Cash generated from operations 102.4 116.3 0.7 0.1 24 Cash and short-term deposits Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and on hand 49.4 51.5 Short-term deposits 1.0 27.5 Total 50.4 79.0 The analysis of cash and short-term deposits by currency is as follows: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Sterling 42.7 72.7 Euro 7.7 6.3 Total 50.4 61.0 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Company At 30 June 2018 the Company had cash and short-term deposits of 0.4m 30 June 2017: 0.4m.
com | 145 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Reconciliation of cash flow from financing activities Reconciliation of net debt: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 47.7 76.5 Borrowings 57.0 88.9 Net debt 9.3 12.4 For the purpose of the statements of cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and on hand 49.4 51.5 Short-term deposits 1.0 27.5 50.4 79.0 Bank overdrafts 2.7 2.5 Total 47.7 76.5 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: TRANSACTIONS YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 As at 30 June As at 30 June Non-cash 2018 2017 m Cash flow changes m Obligations under finance leases 7.0 1.4 8.4 Term loans 50.0 20.0 70.0 7.125% Yankee bonds 10.1 0.4 10.5 Total borrowings 57.0 31.5 0.4 88.9 26 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 192.0 197.4 Social security costs 18.0 19.8 Pension costs 4.5 4.7 Share-based payments 0.2 0.8 214.3 221.1 The Company has no employees year ended 30 June 2017: nil.
b Average monthly number of employees Full-time Part-time Total Full-time Part-time Total Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Grosvenor Venues 4,081 1,767 5,848 4,312 1,939 6,251 Mecca Venues 597 2,330 2,927 666 2,409 3,075 UK Digital 187 11 198 163 12 175 Enracha 446 83 529 446 78 524 Central Costs 328 38 366 325 28 353 5,639 4,229 9,868 5,912 4,466 10,378 146 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS c Key management compensation Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits including social security costs 3.4 4.6 Termination benefits 0.4 0.4 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 0.3 0.7 3.8 4.6 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of 0.2m in respect of the current year that will be paid in 2017 18 year ended 30 June 2017: 1.0m.
Key management is defined as the directors of the Group and the management team, details of which are set out on page 54.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including conditional awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, are detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group plc Year ended Year ended 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 m m Salaries, fees and benefits 1.6 1.9 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 1.7 2.0 No director accrued benefits under defined benefit pension schemes in either year.
One director year ended 30 June 2017: none is a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan at the year end.
Further details of emoluments received bydirectors, including the aggregate amount of gains made by directors upon the vesting of conditional share awards, are disclosed in the remuneration report on page 88.
27 Share-based payments During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Company operated an equity settled Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Further details of the LTIP are included in the remuneration report on page 82.
The LTIP is an equity settled scheme and details of the movements in the number of shares are shown below: As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Outstanding at start of the year 4,155,814 4,434,222 Granted 6,094,993 Exercised 719,549 Expired 1,082,428 Forfeited 1,492,078 278,408 Outstanding at end of the year 6,956,752 4,155,814 As at As at 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 Weighted average remaining life 3.8 years 1.2 years Weighted average fair value for shares granted during the year p 159.2 There are two LTIP awards currently in issue.
LTIP 2014 15 award Vests in three tranches: 45% in December 2017, 30% in December 2018 and 25% in December 2019.
All LTIP awards have nil exercise price.
The fair value of the LTIP awards granted in the previous years was based on the market value of the share award at grant date less the expected value of dividends forgone.
To the extent that grants were subject to non-market based performance conditions, the expense recognised was based on expectations of these conditions being met.
The current schemes non-market performance conditions were subject to results as at 30 June 2017 as well as future service.
During the year the first tranche of shares vested and 0.7m shares were exercised and settled.
The total cash cost of settlement was 1.7m and the weighted average share price at the date of issue was 2.38.
As at 30 June 2018, 0.9m shares are outstanding and still subject to to future service conditions.
com | 147 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Share-based payments continued The Group recognised a 0.2m net credit 30 June 2017: 0.8m credit in operating profit from accounting for share-based payments and related National Insurance in accordance with IFRS 2.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
Of the credit in the year, nil 30 June 2017: 0.1m credit is in respect of such cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at 30 June 2018 of 0.1m 30 June 2017: 0.3m.
LTIP 2017 18 award On 28 June 2018 shares were issued under a new LTIP scheme.
The scheme vests in three tranches: 33.3% in October 2021, 33.3% in October 2022 and 33.3% in October 2023.
All LTIP awards have a nil exercise price.
The number of LTIP awards and the fair value per share of the LTIP awards granted during the year were as follows: 30 June 2018 Number 6,094,993 Weighted average fair value per share 154.1p The fair value of the LTIP awards granted during the year is based on the market value of the share award at grant date less the expected value of dividends forgone.
The following table lists the inputs used in assessing the fair value of the share awards: 30 June 2018 Dividend yield % 4.10 Vesting period Years 4.26 Weighted average share price p 183.2 To the extent that grants are subject to non-market based performance conditions, the expense recognised is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
The Group recognised nil 30 June 2017: nil charge in operating profit for costs of the new scheme in the current year.
28 Retirement benefits Defined contribution scheme The Group operates the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan the Plan, which is externally funded, and the Plans assets are held separately from Group assets.
During the year ended 30 June 2018, the Group contributed a total of 4.5m year ended 30 June 2018: 4.7m to the Plan.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the balance sheet date in either year.
Other pension commitment The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
The Group paid 0.2m year ended 30 June 2017: 0.2m in pension payments during the year.
The actuarial gain arising on the commitment, resulting from the changes in assumptions outlined below in the year, was 0.1m year ended 30 June 2017: loss of 0.7m before taxation and 0.1m after taxation year ended 30 June 2017: loss of 0.6m.
Discount rate 2.7 2.6 Pension increases 3.2 3.3 The obligation has been calculated using the S2 mortality tables with a 1.5% per annum improvement in life expectancy.
148 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
