Other information Glossary Annualised gross rental income GBP, Pound or Sterling Occupancy Annualised gross rent generated by the asset at Great British Pound, the legal currency of the UK Occupancy expressed as a percentage of ERV, the balance sheet date, which is made up of the representing a measure of let space GRESB contracted rent, including units that are in rentfree Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark OSIT periods, and estimates of turnover rent Office Space in Town, the Groups strategic partner IASB AUK and noncontrolling shareholder in the LSO portfolio International Accounting Standards Board Aegon UK property portfolio RCF IFRS Aviva Revolving Credit Facility International Financial Reporting Standards Aviva Commercial Finance Limited RDI REIT P. L. C. RDI, the Company or the Group IHL Board RDI REIT P. L. C. and, when taken together with all its International Hotel Properties Limited The Board of Directors of RDI REIT P. L. C. subsidiaries and Group undertakings, collectively Indexed leases referred to as the Group BVI A lease with rent review provisions which are British Virgin Islands RBH dependent upon calculations with reference to an RBH Hotel Group Limited, formerly RedefineBDL CPI index such as the consumer price index or the retail Hotel Group Limited Consumer Price Index price index Redefine Properties or RPL EBITDA IPD Redefine Properties Limited, a company listed on the Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Investment Property Databank JSE, and the largest shareholder of the Company Amortisation JSE Reversionary yield EPRA JSE Limited, licensed as an exchange and a public The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise European Public Real Estate Association company incorporated under the laws of South or fall once the rent reaches the ERV Africa and the operator of the Johannesburg Stock EPRA cost ratio Exchange RevPar Administrative and operating costs expressed as Revenue per available room a percentage of gross rental income as defined Lease incentives byEPRA Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into RICS a lease.
Typically, the incentive will be an initial Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors EPRA earnings rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit out or Earnings from operational activities as defined RIMH similar costs byEPRAs Best Practice guidelines Redefine International Management Like-for-like net income HoldingsLimited EPRA NAV Net income generated by assets which were held European Public Real Estate Association Net RHHL by the Group throughout both the current and AssetValue Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited comparable periods for which there has been no EPRA NIY SAICA significant development which materially impacts European Public Real Estate Association Net Initial upon income and used to illustrate change in South African Institute of Chartered Accountants Yield.
The annualised rental income based on the comparable income values TSogo Sun cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less Southern Sun Africa Like-for-like property nonrecoverable property operating expenses, Property which has been held at both the current divided by the gross market value of the property UK and comparative balance sheet dates for which United Kingdom EPRA NNNAV there has been no significant development and used UK REIT European Public Real Estate Association Triple to illustrate change in comparable capital values NetAsset Value A UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
A REIT must be a LSE publicly quoted company with at least threequarters EPRA topped-up initial yield The London Stock Exchange of its profits and assets derived from a qualifying Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of property rental business.
Income and capital gains LSO rentfree periods or other incentives from the property rental business are exempt London Serviced Office Portfolio EPRA vacancy rate from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at Loan-to-value or LTV Estimated rental value of vacant space as a least 90 per cent of those profits to shareholders.
The ratio of net debt divided by the market value of percentage of the rental value of the portfolio Taxispayable on non-qualifying activities of the investment property.
Calculated on a proportionate asawhole residual business share of value basis.
See financial review for basis EPS of calculation Underlying earnings Earnings per share EPRA earnings adjusted for the impact of noncash LuxSE debt accretion charges and FX gains and losses ERV The Luxembourg Stock Exchange reflected in the income statement The estimated market rental value of lettable space NAV which could reasonably be expected to be obtained WAULT Net Asset Value on a new letting or rent review Weighted average unexpired lease term NCI EU Noncontrolling interest European Union Net debt EUR or Euro Total nominal value of bank borrowings less cash Euro, the lawful common currency of participating and cash equivalents member states of the European Monetary Union 184 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018
