Notes to the company financial statements 41 Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IAS 27 'Separate Financial Statements'.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the group financial statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Developments in reporting standards and interpretations This is the first set of the Companys financial statements where IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 have been applied.
These new standards were adopted from 1 January 2018.
Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated.
Changes to significant accounting policies are described in note 43.
Other developments in reporting standards and interpretations are set out in note 1.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are as set out below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provision for impairment.
Management charges Intra-group management charges arise in relation to staff costs and other administrative expenses that are initially borne by the company and then recharged to other group companies, when incurred.
Accounting policies in relation to impairment, interest income, dividend income, operating leases, foreign currency, retirement benefit obligations, taxation, cash and cash equivalents and share-based payments are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
42 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty The critical accounting judgement and key sources of estimation and uncertainty arise from the company's defined benefit pension schemes.
These are described in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
43 Changes in significant accounting policies The Company has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
The effect of applying these standards is mainly attributed to the following: a change in classification and measurement of certain financial assets IFRS 9 : and an increase in provisions for payments to acquire client relationship intangible assets IFRS 15.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 governs the accounting treatment for the classification and measurement of financial instruments and the timing and extent of credit provisioning.
Transition The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from restating comparative information for prior periods with respect to classification and measurement including impairment requirements.
Differences in the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 are recognised in retained earnings and reserves as at 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 does not generally reflect the requirements of IFRS 9 but rather those of IAS 39.
172 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 172 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
