Notes to the company financial statements 41 Significant accounting policies Statement of compliance The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IAS 27 'Separate Financial Statements'.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the group financial statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Developments in reporting standards and interpretations This is the first set of the Companys financial statements where IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 have been applied.
These new standards were adopted from 1 January 2018.
Under the transition methods chosen, comparative information is not restated.
Changes to significant accounting policies are described in note 43.
Other developments in reporting standards and interpretations are set out in note 1.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are as set out below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provision for impairment.
Management charges Intra-group management charges arise in relation to staff costs and other administrative expenses that are initially borne by the company and then recharged to other group companies, when incurred.
Accounting policies in relation to impairment, interest income, dividend income, operating leases, foreign currency, retirement benefit obligations, taxation, cash and cash equivalents and share-based payments are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
42 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty The critical accounting judgement and key sources of estimation and uncertainty arise from the company's defined benefit pension schemes.
These are described in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
43 Changes in significant accounting policies The Company has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
The effect of applying these standards is mainly attributed to the following: a change in classification and measurement of certain financial assets IFRS 9 : and an increase in provisions for payments to acquire client relationship intangible assets IFRS 15.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 governs the accounting treatment for the classification and measurement of financial instruments and the timing and extent of credit provisioning.
Transition The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from restating comparative information for prior periods with respect to classification and measurement including impairment requirements.
Differences in the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities resulting from the adoption of IFRS 9 are recognised in retained earnings and reserves as at 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 does not generally reflect the requirements of IFRS 9 but rather those of IAS 39.
172 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 172 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Company financial statements Under the requirements of IFRS 9, the following assessments have been made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of initial application.
The nature of the business model under which a financial asset is managed.
Whether the SPPI solely payments of principal and interest criterion is met.
The designation of certain financial assets as measured at fair value through profit or loss.
If an investment in a debt instrument had a low credit risk at the date of initial application of IFRS 9, then the company assumes that the credit risk on the asset has not increased significantly since its initial recognition.
The following table summarises the impact, net of tax, of transition to IFRS 9 on the opening balance of reserves and retained earnings: Impact of adopting IFRS 9 on opening balance Available for sale reserve Retained earnings '000 '000 Recycle to retained earnings of available for sale reserve 250 250 Impact at 1 January 2018 250 250 The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 have not been applied, as the company was not party to any hedging relationships as at 1 January 2018.
Classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities The basis of classification for financial assets under IFRS 9 is different from that under IAS 39.
Financial assets are classified into one of three categories: amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The held to maturity, loans and receivables and available for sale categories available under IAS 39 have been removed.
The classification criteria for allocating financial assets between categories under IFRS 9 require the company to document the business models under which its assets are managed and review contractual terms and conditions.
All of the companys financial assets as at 1 January 2018 were managed within business models whose objective is solely to collect contractual cash flows, except money market funds, which are equity instruments not held for trading and were classified as fair value through profit or loss.
The following table explains the original measurement categories under IAS 39 and the new measurement categories under IFRS 9 for each class of the companys financial assets as at 1 January 2018.
Original carrying New carrying amount amount under IAS 39 under IFRS 9 Financial assets Original classification under IAS 39 '000 New classification under IFRS 9 '000 Equity securities Available for sale 2,565 Fair value through profit or loss 2,565 Money market funds Available for sale 10,000 Fair value through profit or loss 10,000 Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables 7,400 Amortised cost 7,400 Amounts owed by group undertakings Loans and receivables 110,194 Amortised cost 110,194 Other financial assets Loans and receivables 1,635 Amortised cost 1,635 Total financial assets 131,794 131,794 The basis of classification for financial liabilities under IFRS 9 remains unchanged from under IAS 39.
Impairment of financial assets Under IFRS 9, an expected credit loss ECL model replaces the incurred loss model, meaning there no longer needs to be a triggering event in order to recognise impairment losses.
A credit loss provision must be made for the amount of any loss expected to arise, whereas under IAS 39, credit losses are recognised when they are incurred.
No additional impairment has been recognised under the new standard as at 1 January 2018. rathbones.
