Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 16 Leases 1 Principal accounting policies IFRS 16 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January Rathbone Brothers Plc the company is a public company 2019 and replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17 incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a Companies Act 2006.
Lease, SIC-15 Operating Lease Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a 1.1 Basis of preparation Lease.
The standard was endorsed by the EU during 2017.
The group has not adopted this standard early.
The consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The company financial leases or finance leases for lessees.
The group will be required to statements are presented on pages 169 to 189. recognise all leases with a term of more than 12 months as a right-of-use lease asset on its balance sheet: the group will also The financial statements have been prepared on the historical recognise a financial liability representing its obligation to make cost basis, except for certain financial instruments that are future lease payments.
measured at fair value notes 1.12 and 1.16.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in this note and, unless Transition otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods The group plans to apply IFRS 16 initially with effect from 1 presented in the consolidated financial statements.
January 2019, using the modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be 1.2 Basis of consolidation recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
statements of the company and entities controlled by the The group plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather company its subsidiaries, together the group, made up the definition of a lease on transition.
This means that it will to 31 December each year.
apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 The group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17. to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and Lessee accounting has the ability to affect those returns through its power over The group has assessed the impact of adopting the new the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date standard, based on its existing lease contracts.
on which control is obtained, and no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases: their results are included in the The groups total assets and total liabilities will be increased consolidated financial statements up to the date that control by the recognition of lease assets and liabilities.
Intercompany transactions and balances between will be depreciated over the shorter of the expected life of the group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The lease liability will be reduced by lease payments, offset by the unwinding of the liability over 1.3 Developments in reporting standards the lease term, which will be recognised in interest expense and interpretations and similar charges in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Standards and interpretations affecting the reported results or the The most significant impact is in respect of its London head financial position office premises.
Based on the information currently available, This is the first set of the groups financial statements where IFRS the group estimates that it will recognise lease liabilities of 9 and IFRS 15 have been applied.
These new standards were approximately 63 million to 67 million as at 1 January 2019 adopted from 1 January 2018.
Under the transition methods and related right-of-use assets with a value of approximately chosen, comparative information is not restated.
Changes to 50 million to 55 million, reflecting the impact of accrued significant accounting policies are described in note 2. rent free periods up to 31 December 2018.
We do not expect any impact on the groups equity at the date of adoption.
The following amendments to standards have also been adopted in the current period, but have not had a significant impact on On the groups statement of comprehensive income, the profile the amounts reported in these financial statements: of lease costs will be front-loaded, at least individually, as the interest charge is higher in the early years of a lease term as the Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment discount rate unwinds.
The total cost of the lease over the lease Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2. term is expected to be unchanged.
Future new standards and interpretations In addition to the above impacts, recognition of lease assets A number of new standards are effective for annual periods will increase the groups regulatory capital requirement.
beginning after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is Lessor accounting permitted: however, the group has not early adopted the The group is not required to make any adjustments for leases in new or amended standards in preparing these consolidated which it is a lessor except where it is an intermediate lessor in a financial statements.
Based on the work completed by the group, it expects Of those standards that are not yet effective, IFRS 16 is expected to reclassify one sub-lease as a finance lease.
This results in to have a material impact on the groups financial statements in recognition of a finance lease receivable of approximately the period of initial application.
1 million to 2 million as at 1 January 2019.
108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
