Liquidity and cash flow Table 18.
Extract from the consolidated statement of cash flows The most significant non-operating cash flows during the year 2018 2017 were as follows: m m Net outflows of 72.9 million in relation to the acquisition Cash and cash equivalents at the of Speirs & Jeffrey, being cash consideration of 88.4 million end of the year 1,408.5 1,567.8 less cash balances of 15.5 million in the acquired entity: Net cash inflows from operating Net cash inflows of 57.4 million from the issue of shares activities 111.1 351.5 during the year to partially finance the acquisition of Net change in cash and cash Speirs & Jeffrey: equivalents 159.2 304.7 Outflows relating to the payment of dividends of 32.7 million 2017: 29.4 million : Fees and commissions are largely collected directly from client portfolios and expenses, by and large, are predictable: Outflows relating to payments to acquire intangible assets consequently, we operate with a modest amount of working other than as part of a business combination of 15.1 million capital.
Larger cash flows are principally generated from 2017: 11.9 million : and banking and treasury operations when investment managers 3.2 million of capital expenditure on property, plant and make asset allocation decisions about the amount of cash to equipment 2017: 4.2 million.
be held in client portfolios.
As a bank, we are subject to the PRAs ILAAP regime, which requires us to hold a suitable liquid assets buffer to ensure that short-term liquidity requirements can be met under certain stressed scenarios.
Liquidity risks are actively managed on a daily basis and depend on operational and investment transaction activity.
Cash and balances at central banks was 1.2 billion at 31 December 2018 2017: 1.4 billion.
Cash and cash equivalents, as defined by accounting standards, includes cash, money market funds and banking deposits, which had an original maturity of less than three months see note 38 to the financial statements.
Consequently, cash flows, as reported in the financial statements, include the impact of capital flows in treasury assets.
Net cash flows from operating activities include the effect of a 54.2 million increase in banking client deposits 2017: 282.6 million increase and a 11.4 million increase in the component of treasury assets placed in term deposits for more than three months or lent to clients 2017: 16.6 million increase.
Cash flows from investing activities also included a net outflow of 203.8 million from the purchase of longer dated certificates of deposit 2017: 4.0 million.
34 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 34 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Risk management and control Managing our risks In 2018, we have continued to evolve our risk management framework in support of our three lines of defence model.
Our approach to risk governance, risk processes and risk infrastructure ensures that the management of risk across the group considers existing and emerging challenges to our values and strategy.
Going forward into 2019, we will continue our approach to ensure that effective risk management is in place to protect our stakeholders.
Risk culture Managing risk We believe an embedded risk culture enhances the The board is ultimately accountable for risk management effectiveness of risk management and decision making across and regularly considers the most significant risks and the group.
The board is responsible for setting the right tone, emerging threats to the groups strategy.
The board, which supports a strong risk culture and, through our senior audit and group risk committees exercise further oversight management team, encouraging appropriate behaviours and challenge of risk management and internal control.
and collaboration on managing risk across the business.
Risk Day-to-day, the group chief executive and executive management is accepted as being part of everyones day-tocommittee are responsible for managing risk and the day responsibilities and activities: it is linked to performance regular review of key risks facing the group.
and development, as well as to the groups remuneration and In 2018, we merged our conduct and operational risk reward schemes.
Our approach through this is to create an management committees to form a new executive risk open and transparent working environment, encouraging committee, which complements the banking committee employees to engage positively in risk management and that oversees financial risk management.
support the effective achievement of our strategic objectives.
Throughout the group, all employees have a responsibility for managing risk and adhering to our control framework.
Risk appetite We define risk appetite as both the amount and type of risk the Three lines of defence group is prepared to accept or retain in pursuit of our strategy.
Our three lines of defence model supports the risk Our appetite is subject to regular review to ensure it remains management framework and the expectations of all aligned to our strategic goals.
Our risk appetite framework employees, with responsibility and accountability contains some overarching parameters, alongside specific for risk management broken down as follows.
primary and secondary measures for each principal risk.
At least annually, the board, executive committee and group risk First line: Senior management, business operations and committee will formally review and approve the groups risk support are responsible for managing risks, by developing appetite statement and at each meeting, risks are reported and maintaining effective internal controls to mitigate risk.
which have triggered key risk indicators or risk appetite Second line: The risk, compliance and anti-money laundering measures so that risk mitigation can be reviewed and functions maintain a level of independence from the first strengthened if appropriate.
They are responsible for providing oversight and Notwithstanding the continued expectations for business challenge of the first lines day-to-day management, growth, along with a strategic and regulatory change monitoring and reporting of risks to both senior programme for 2018, the board remains committed to management and governing bodies.
having a relatively low overall appetite for risk, ensuring that Third line: The internal audit function is responsible for our internal controls mitigate risk to appropriate levels.
The providing independent assurance to both senior management board recognises that the business is susceptible to fluctuations and governing bodies as to the effectiveness of the groups in investment markets and has the potential to bear losses from governance, risk management and internal controls.
financial and operational risks from time-to-time, either as reductions in income or increases in operating costs.
Three lines of defence Overview External independent assurance Third line: Internal independent assurance Executive risk Executive Audit and group committee committee risk committee Second line: Oversight and challenge functions First line: Business operations and support rathbones.
com 35 Risk management and control continued Identification and profiling of principal risks Risk assessment process Our risks are classified using a hierarchical approach, which is The board and senior management are actively involved regularly reviewed to ensure we identify all known material in a continuous risk assessment process as part of our risk risks to the business and consider emerging risks, which may management framework, supported by the annual Internal impact future performance.
Our highest level of risk analysis Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Level 1 comprises financial, conduct and operational risks.
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP work, which This year we have made some adjustments to our next level assesses the principal risks facing the group.
Level 2, which contains 17 risk categories, each allocated to Stress tests include consideration of the impact of a number a Level 1 risk.
The changes reflect the future risk landscape of severe but plausible events that could impact the business.
Detailed risks Level 3 continue to The work also takes account of the availability and likely be identified as sub-sets of Level 2 risks.
Level 3 risks are effectiveness of mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid captured and maintained within our group risk register, or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
which is the principal tool for monitoring risks.
We recognise that some Level 2 and Level 3 risks have features, which need Day-to-day, our risk assessment process considers both the to be considered under more than one Level 1 risk, and this impact and likelihood of risk events which could materialise, is facilitated in our framework through a system of primary affecting the delivery of strategic goals and annual business and secondary considerations.
A top-down and bottom-up approach ensures that our assessment of key risks is challenged and reviewed on a Our risk exposures and overall risk profile are reviewed regular basis.
The board, executive committee and executive and monitored regularly, considering the potential impact, risk committee receive regular reports and information from existing internal controls and management actions required to senior management, operational business units, risk oversight mitigate the impact of emerging issues and likelihood of future functions and specific risk committees.
To ensure we identify and manage our principal risks, reviews take place with risk owners, senior management and The executive risk committee, executive committee, group business units across the group.
The risk function conducts risk committee and other key risk-focused committees these reviews and risk workshops regularly during the year.
consider the risk assessments and provide challenge, which is reported through the governance framework and ultimately A watch list is maintained to record any current, emerging or considered by the board.
future issues, threats, business developments and regulatory or legislative change, which will or could have the potential to impact the firms current or future risk profile and therefore Profile and mitigation of principal risks may require active risk management, usually through process As explained above, our risks are classified hierarchically in changes, systems development or regulatory changes.
There are three Level 1 risks, 17 Level 2 groups risk profile, risk register and watch list are regularly risks and 47 Level 3 risks, all of which form the basis of the reviewed by the executive committee, senior management, groups risk register.
Our approach to managing risk continues board and group risk committee.
to be underpinned by an understanding of our current risk This year, we have reviewed our risk assessment approach exposures and consideration of how risks change over time.
and adjusted our scoring system.
Each Level 3 risk is assessed The underlying risk profile and ratings for the majority of for the inherent likelihood of its occurrence in a three-year Level 2 risks have remained reasonably stable during 2018. period a reduction from five years and against a number of However, there have been some changes to risk ratings and different impact criteria, including financial, client, operations, the following table summarises the most important of these.
reputation, strategy and regulation indicators.
A residual risk Based upon the risk assessment processes identified above, exposure and overall risk profile rating of high, medium, the board believes that the principal risks and uncertainties low or very low is then derived for the three-year period by facing the group, which could impact the delivery of our taking into account an assessment of the internal control strategic objectives, have been identified below.
These reflect environment or insurance mitigation.
The assessment of the impact of the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey, the increased our control environment, undertaken by senior management and evolving cyber threat landscape, increasing political risk within the firm, includes contributions from first, second and including Brexit and global trends impacting market volatility, third line people, data, monitoring and or assurance activity.
and continuing focus on client suitability.
2018 also saw two material regulatory changes come into effect, MiFID II and the General Data Protection Regulation, which remain areas of focus for the firm.
The board remains vigilant to the risks associated with the pension schemes deficit.
The other key risks are operational risks that arise from growth and regulatory risks that, in turn, may arise from the continuing development of law, regulation and standards in our sector.
36 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Our overall risk profile and control environment for principal Emerging risks and threats risks are described below.
The board receives assurance from Emerging risks, including legislative and regulatory change, first line senior management that the systems of internal have the potential to impact the group and its strategy.
control are operating effectively and from the activities These risk factors are monitored through our watch list.
of the second line and third line that there are no material During the year, the executive committee continued to control issues which would affect the boards view of its recognise a number of emerging risks and threats to the principal risks and uncertainties.
financial services sector as a whole and to our business.
In line with current and developing guidance, we also include We also recognise that the risk profile associated with in the tables the potential impacts I the firm might face and outsourced activities can change over time and this our assessment of the likelihood L of each principal risk will be an area of continued focus in 2019. crystallising in the event it materialises.
These assessments The groups view is that we can reasonably expect current take into account the controls in place to mitigate the risks.
market conditions and uncertainties to remain throughout However, as is always the case, should a risk materialise, 2019, given the implications of Brexit and the UK political a range of outcomes both in scale and type might be environment.
Other developing risks include, for example, experienced.
This is particularly relevant for firms such cyber threats, regulatory change and further scenarios as Rathbones where the outcome of a risk event can be potentially arising from geopolitical developments and influenced by market conditions as well as internal increasing tensions around global trade.
We are continuing to monitor the potential consequences We have used ratings of high, medium, low and very low of Brexit very closely.
Our current assessment is that the in this risk assessment.
We perceive as high-risk items those direct impacts of Brexit as currently proposed are manageable which have the potential to impact the delivery of strategic given our largely UK-based business model.
However, we are objectives, with medium-, lowand very low-rated items conscious that the position is uncertain, has the potential to having proportionately less impact on the firm.
Likelihood change and may raise unexpected challenges and implications is similarly based on a qualitative assessment.
for the firm, possibly extending to our supply chain.
The firms income is correlated to market levels, which are expected to be impacted by Brexit and other areas of political uncertainty.
Key changes to risk profile Risk Description of change Risk change in 2018 Business model This risk includes the impacts arising from changing market conditions, which are including Brexit impacted in turn by political uncertainty and the global economy.
Although the firm does not have operations in other European Union countries, or material dependencies on goods or people from other European Union countries and has a predominantly UK client base, any impact of Brexit on investment markets will also affect the value of our funds under management and administration.
Suitability and advice Our forward-looking risk assessment increased during the year, largely reflecting regulatory drivers.
In addition to changes delivered in 2017 18, we plan to improve our processes further in 2019 through systems enhancements designed to simplify the workflows involved for our clients and employees.
Change We increased our risk assessment to reflect the firms change plans, including the integration programme for Speirs & Jeffrey.
Data integrity We have increased our risk rating in this area based on our assessment of the increasing and security external threat profile, despite continuing investment in technology improvements.
People Our forward-looking risk assessment increased further during the year, reflecting industrywide trends.
We also recognise the importance of addressing the drivers behind our gender pay gap over the coming years.
Pension The funding deficit decreased materially due to the closure of the schemes in 2017, with a significant number of members transferring benefits out of the schemes.
However, this remains an important risk for the firm to manage.
com 37 Risk management and control continued Principal risks The most significant risks which could impact the delivery of our strategy and annual business plans are detailed below.
Residual rating Level 2 risk How the risk arises I L Control environment Credit This risk can arise from placing High Very Banking committee oversight funds with other banks and low Counterparty limits and credit reviews The risk that one or more holding interest-bearing securities.
counterparties fail to fulfil Treasury policy and procedures There is also a limited level of contractual obligations, Active monitoring of exposures lending to clients including stock settlement Client loan policy and procedures Annual ICAAP Pension This risk can arise through a High Med Board, senior management and trustee sustained deficit between the oversight The risk that the cost of schemes assets and liabilities.
Monthly valuation estimates funding our defined benefit A number of factors impact pension schemes increases, Triennial independent actuarial valuations a deficit, including increased or their valuation affects Investment policy life expectancy, falling interest dividends, reserves and capital rates and falling asset values Senior management review and defined management actions Annual ICAAP Business model This risk can arise from strategic High Med Board and executive oversight decisions, which fail to consider A documented strategy The risk that the business the current operating environment, model does not respond Annual business targets, subject or can be influenced by external in an optimal manner to to regular review and challenge factors such as material changes changing market conditions Regular reviews of pricing structure in regulation or legislation within such that sustainable growth, the financial services sector Continued investment in the investment market share or profitability process, service standards and marketing is adversely affected Trade body participation Regular competitor benchmarking and analysis Suitability and advice This risk can arise through failure High Med Investment governance and structured to appropriately understand the committee oversight The risk that clients receive wealth management needs of our Management oversight and segregated inappropriate financial, clients, or failure to apply suitable quality assurance and performance teams trust or investment advice, advice or investment strategies inadequate documentation Performance measurement and attribution or unsuitable portfolios analysis Know your client KYC suitability processes Weekly investment management meetings Investment manager reviews through supervisor sampling Compliance monitoring 38 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Residual rating Level 2 risk How the risk arises I L Control environment Regulatory This risk can arise from failures High Med Board and executive oversight by the business to comply Active involvement with industry bodies The risk of failure by the with existing regulation or group or a subsidiary to fulfil Compliance monitoring programme to failure to identify and react regulatory requirements and examine the control of key regulatory risks to regulatory change comply with the introduction Separate anti-money laundering function of new, or changes to existing, with specific responsibility regulation Oversight of industry and regulatory developments Documented policies and procedures Staff training and development Change This risk can arise if the business High Med Executive and board oversight of material is too aggressive and unstructured change programmes The risk that the planning or in its change programme to Dedicated change delivery function, use implementation of change is manage project risks, or fails of internal and, where required, external ineffective or fails to deliver to make available the capacity subject matter experts desired outcomes, the impact and capabilities to deliver of which may lead to Documented business plans and IT strategy business benefits unmitigated financial Two-stage assessment, challenge and exposures approval of project plans Documented project and change procedures Data integrity and security This risk can arise from the High Med Data security committee oversight firm failing to maintain and Data protection policy and procedures The risk of a lack of integrity keep secure sensitive and of, inappropriate access to, System access controls and encryption confidential data through or disclosure of, client or Penetration testing and multi-layer its operating infrastructure, company-sensitive network security including the activities of information employees, and through Training and employee awareness the management of programmes cyber threats Physical security People This risk can arise across all High Med Executive oversight areas of the business as a result Succession and contingency planning The risk of loss of key staff, of resource management failures lack of skilled resources and Transparent, consistent and competitive or from external factors such as inappropriate behaviour or remuneration schemes increased competition or material actions.
This could lead to Contractual clauses with restrictive changes in regulation lack of capacity or capability covenants threatening the delivery Continual investment in staff training of business objectives, and development or to behaviour leading Employee engagement survey to complaints, regulatory action or litigation Appropriate balanced performance measurement system Further detailed discussion of the groups exposures to financial risks is included in note 32 to the financial statements.
com 39 Risk management and control continued Assessment of the companys prospects Viability statement The board prepares or reviews its strategic plan annually, In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, completing the ICAAP and ILAAP work, which form the basis the board has assessed the prospects and viability of the for capital planning and regular discussion with the Prudential group over a three-year period taking into account the Regulation Authority PRA.
The directors have taken into account the firms current position and the potential impact of the During the year, the board has considered a number of stress principal risks and uncertainties set out above.
As part of tests and scenarios which focus on material or severe but the viability statement, the directors confirm that they have plausible events that could impact the business and the carried out a robust assessment of both the principal risks companys financial position.
The board also considers the facing the group, and stress tests and scenarios that would plans and procedures in place in the event that contingency threaten the sustainability of its business model, future funding is required to replenish regulatory capital.
On a performance, solvency or liquidity.
monthly basis, critical capital projections and sensitivities have been refreshed and reviewed, taking into account current The board considers five-year projections as part of its or expected market movements and business developments.
annual regulatory reporting cycle, which includes strategic and investment plans and its opinion of the likelihood of The boards assessment considers all the principal risks risks materialising.
However, given the uncertainties identified by the group and assesses the sufficiency of our associated with predicting the future impact of investment response to all Pillar 1 risks credit, market and operational markets on the business over this longer period, the directors risks to the required regulatory standards.
In addition, the have determined that a three-year period to 31 December following risks were focused on for enhanced stress testing: 2021 continues to constitute an appropriate period over equity market risk, interest rate risk, a loss of business which to provide its viability statement.
This is more competition risk, business expansion risk and pension closely aligned to its detailed capital planning activity.
Stress testing analysis shows that under scenarios such as a The group considers the possible impacts of serious business 45% fall in FTSE 100 levels or a 0% interest rate environment interruption as part of its operational risk assessment process for two years, the group would remain profitable and is able and remains mindful of the importance of maintaining its to withstand the impact of such scenarios.
Although the business is almost wholly UKscenario as also incorporating the potential adverse indirect situated, it does not suffer from any material client, impact of Brexit on the firm.
An example of a mitigating action geographical or counterparty concentrations.
in such scenarios would be a reduction in dividend.
While this review does not consider all of the risks that the Based on this assessment, the directors confirm that they group may face, the directors consider that this stress testinghave a reasonable expectation that the company will be based assessment of the groups prospects is reasonable in able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
they fall due over the period to 31 December 2021.
40 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
