Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors have elected to prepare the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued bythe International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by IFRS, as issued by the IASB, to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group and Company respectively.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements of the Group and Company comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB and, in the case of the Company, in accordance with those parts of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time its financial position.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Responsibility statement Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: the Group and Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and Company at 31August 2018 and the profit of the Group and the Company for the year then ended and, in the case of the Company, itsloss for the year then ended: the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the Group and Company financial statements continues to be appropriate based on the year end position and having reviewed the forecast financial position of the Group: the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included inthe consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Annual Report is published on the Groups website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Signed on behalf of the Board on 25 October 2018.
Mike Watters Donald Grant Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 114 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018
