Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 16 Leases 1 Principal accounting policies IFRS 16 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January Rathbone Brothers Plc the company is a public company 2019 and replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17 incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a Companies Act 2006.
Lease, SIC-15 Operating Lease Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a 1.1 Basis of preparation Lease.
The standard was endorsed by the EU during 2017.
The group has not adopted this standard early.
The consolidated and company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The company financial leases or finance leases for lessees.
The group will be required to statements are presented on pages 169 to 189. recognise all leases with a term of more than 12 months as a right-of-use lease asset on its balance sheet: the group will also The financial statements have been prepared on the historical recognise a financial liability representing its obligation to make cost basis, except for certain financial instruments that are future lease payments.
measured at fair value notes 1.12 and 1.16.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in this note and, unless Transition otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods The group plans to apply IFRS 16 initially with effect from 1 presented in the consolidated financial statements.
January 2019, using the modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be 1.2 Basis of consolidation recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
statements of the company and entities controlled by the The group plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather company its subsidiaries, together the group, made up the definition of a lease on transition.
This means that it will to 31 December each year.
apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 The group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17. to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and Lessee accounting has the ability to affect those returns through its power over The group has assessed the impact of adopting the new the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date standard, based on its existing lease contracts.
on which control is obtained, and no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases: their results are included in the The groups total assets and total liabilities will be increased consolidated financial statements up to the date that control by the recognition of lease assets and liabilities.
Intercompany transactions and balances between will be depreciated over the shorter of the expected life of the group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The lease liability will be reduced by lease payments, offset by the unwinding of the liability over 1.3 Developments in reporting standards the lease term, which will be recognised in interest expense and interpretations and similar charges in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Standards and interpretations affecting the reported results or the The most significant impact is in respect of its London head financial position office premises.
Based on the information currently available, This is the first set of the groups financial statements where IFRS the group estimates that it will recognise lease liabilities of 9 and IFRS 15 have been applied.
These new standards were approximately 63 million to 67 million as at 1 January 2019 adopted from 1 January 2018.
Under the transition methods and related right-of-use assets with a value of approximately chosen, comparative information is not restated.
Changes to 50 million to 55 million, reflecting the impact of accrued significant accounting policies are described in note 2. rent free periods up to 31 December 2018.
We do not expect any impact on the groups equity at the date of adoption.
The following amendments to standards have also been adopted in the current period, but have not had a significant impact on On the groups statement of comprehensive income, the profile the amounts reported in these financial statements: of lease costs will be front-loaded, at least individually, as the interest charge is higher in the early years of a lease term as the Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment discount rate unwinds.
The total cost of the lease over the lease Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2. term is expected to be unchanged.
Future new standards and interpretations In addition to the above impacts, recognition of lease assets A number of new standards are effective for annual periods will increase the groups regulatory capital requirement.
beginning after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is Lessor accounting permitted: however, the group has not early adopted the The group is not required to make any adjustments for leases in new or amended standards in preparing these consolidated which it is a lessor except where it is an intermediate lessor in a financial statements.
Based on the work completed by the group, it expects Of those standards that are not yet effective, IFRS 16 is expected to reclassify one sub-lease as a finance lease.
This results in to have a material impact on the groups financial statements in recognition of a finance lease receivable of approximately the period of initial application.
1 million to 2 million as at 1 January 2019.
108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 16 Leases 1.4 Business combinations 1.7 Income 1 Principal accounting policies IFRS 16 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition The group has initially applied IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018.
Rathbone Brothers Plc the company is a public company 2019 and replaces existing lease guidance, including IAS 17 method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Net interest income Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange Companies Act 2006.
Interest income or expense are recognised within net interest Lease, SIC-15 Operating Lease Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and equity instruments income using the effective interest method.
the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss The effective interest method is the method of calculating the group has not adopted this standard early.
The consolidated and company financial statements have been as incurred.
amortised cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting and liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The company financial expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is leases or finance leases for lessees.
The group will be required to any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration statements are presented on pages 169 to 189. the rate that exactly discounts the expected future cash recognise all leases with a term of more than 12 months as a arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
payments or receipts through the expected life of the right-of-use lease asset on its balance sheet: the group will also The financial statements have been prepared on the historical Subsequent changes in such fair values may arise as a result of financial instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period, to recognise a financial liability representing its obligation to make cost basis, except for certain financial instruments that are additional information obtained after this date about facts and future lease payments.
The principal circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
Provided the gross carrying amount of the financial asset: or accounting policies adopted are set out in this note and, unless they arise within 12 months of the acquisition date, these Transition the amortised cost of the financial liability.
otherwise stated, have been applied consistently to all periods changes are measurement period adjustments and are reflected The group plans to apply IFRS 16 initially with effect from 1 presented in the consolidated financial statements.
The application of the method has the effect of recognising against the cost of acquisition.
Changes in the fair value of January 2019, using the modified retrospective approach.
income or expense receivable or payable on the instrument contingent consideration resulting from events occurring Therefore, the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period 1.2 Basis of consolidation after the acquisition date are charged to profit or loss or other recognised as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet at to maturity or repayment.
In calculating effective interest, the comprehensive income, except for obligations that are The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms classified as equity, which are not remeasured.
Such changes statements of the company and entities controlled by the The group plans to apply the practical expedient to grandfather of the financial instrument but excluding the impact of future are irrespective of the 12 month period from acquisition.
company its subsidiaries, together the group, made up the definition of a lease on transition.
This means that it will credit losses.
apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 1.5 Going concern Dividends received from money market funds are included The group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17.
The directors have, at the time of approving the financial in net interest income when received.
to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and Lessee accounting has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the group have adequate resources to continue in operational Net fee and commission income The group has assessed the impact of adopting the new the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date existence.
In forming this view, the directors have considered standard, based on its existing lease contracts.
Portfolio or investment management fees, commissions on which control is obtained, and no longer consolidated from the companys and the groups prospects for a period exceeding receivable or payable and fees from advisory services are the date that control ceases: their results are included in the The groups total assets and total liabilities will be increased 12 months.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis recognised on a continuous basis over the period that the consolidated financial statements up to the date that control by the recognition of lease assets and liabilities.
The lease assets of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The lease liability will be reduced by Commission charges for executing transactions on behalf 1.6 Foreign currencies lease payments, offset by the unwinding of the liability over of clients are recognised when the transaction is dealt.
The functional and presentational currency of the company and 1.3 Developments in reporting standards the lease term, which will be recognised in interest expense Initial charges receivable from the sale of unit holdings in the its subsidiaries is sterling.
and interpretations and similar charges in the consolidated statement of groups collective investment schemes and related rebates are comprehensive income.
Transactions in currencies other than the relevant group recognised at the point of sale.
Standards and interpretations affecting the reported results or the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange The most significant impact is in respect of its London head financial position prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet Net trading income office premises.
Based on the information currently available, This is the first set of the groups financial statements where IFRS date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in the group estimates that it will recognise lease liabilities of Net trading income comprises net dealing profits on the sale and 9 and IFRS 15 have been applied.
These new standards were foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the approximately 63 million to 67 million as at 1 January 2019 redemption of units in the Unit Trusts business and is recognised adopted from 1 January 2018.
Under the transition methods balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are and related right-of-use assets with a value of approximately when received.
chosen, comparative information is not restated.
Changes to included in profit or loss for the year.
50 million to 55 million, reflecting the impact of accrued significant accounting policies are described in note 2. rent free periods up to 31 December 2018.
We do not expect Dividend income any impact on the groups equity at the date of adoption.
The following amendments to standards have also been adopted Dividend income from final dividends on equity securities is in the current period, but have not had a significant impact on accounted for on the date the security becomes ex-dividend.
On the groups statement of comprehensive income, the profile the amounts reported in these financial statements: Interim dividends are recognised when received.
of lease costs will be front-loaded, at least individually, as the interest charge is higher in the early years of a lease term as the Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment discount rate unwinds.
108 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 rathbones.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax 1 Principal accounting policies continued Deferred tax is accounted for under the balance sheet liability 1.8 Operating leases method in respect of temporary differences using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Lease agreements which do not transfer substantially all of balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the liability the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets to the is settled or when the asset is realised.
Deferred tax liabilities are group are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits line basis over the term of the lease.
The impact of any lease will be available against which deductible temporary differences incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
may be utilised, except where the temporary difference arises: 1.9 Share-based payments from the initial recognition of goodwill: The group engages in equity-settled and cash-settled sharefrom the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a based payment transactions in respect of services received transaction, which affects neither the tax profit nor the from its employees.
accounting profit, other than in a business combination: or in relation to investments in subsidiaries and associates, where Equity-settled awards the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary For equity-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the difference and it is the groups intention not to reverse the award is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares temporary difference in the foreseeable future.
or share options granted on the grant date.
The cost of the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate employee services received in respect of the shares or share to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the options granted is recognised in profit or loss over the vesting group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The fair value of the awards or options granted is determined using a binomial pricing model, which takes into account the 1.11 Cash and cash equivalents current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected Cash comprises cash in hand.
volatility of the companys share price over the life of the option or award, any applicable exercise price and other relevant Cash equivalents comprise money market funds which are factors.
Only those vesting conditions that include terms related realisable on demand and loans and advances to banks with a to market conditions are taken into account in estimating fair maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, by adjusting the number of shares or share options included cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents in the measurement of the cost of employee services so that, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
ultimately, the amount recognised in profit or loss reflects the number of vested shares or share options, with a corresponding 1.12 Financial assets adjustment to equity.
Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions, the charges for the services received are Initial recognition and measurement recognised regardless of whether or not the market-related Financial assets, excluding trade receivables, are initially vesting condition is met, provided that any non-market recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual vesting conditions are also met.
Shares purchased and provisions of the asset.
Trade receivables are recognised when issued are charged directly to equity.
cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus Cash-settled awards transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised Trade receivables without a significant financing component for the services received to the balance sheet date, measured are initially measured at the transaction price.
at the fair value of the liability.
At each subsequent balance sheet date and at the date on which the liability is settled, the fair value Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial of the liability is remeasured with any changes in fair value recognition unless the group changes its business model for recognised in profit or loss.
managing financial assets, in which case all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting 1.10 Taxation period following the change in the business model.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on net taxable income for the year.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax Classification and subsequent measurement how group employees are compensated e. g. whether 1 Principal accounting policies continued compensation is based on the fair value of the assets Deferred tax is accounted for under the balance sheet liability Financial assets are classified and measured in the 1.8 Operating leases managed or the contractual cash flows collected: and method in respect of temporary differences using tax rates and following categories: laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Lease agreements which do not transfer substantially all of the frequency, volume and timing of sales of financial amortised cost balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the liability assets in prior periods, the reasons for such sales and the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets to the Financial assets are measured at amortised cost if its is settled or when the asset is realised.
Payments made under expectations about future sales activity.
contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight payments of principal and interest on the principal amount are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits line basis over the term of the lease.
The impact of any lease Payments of principal and interest criterion outstanding and it is held within a business model whose will be available against which deductible temporary differences incentives is spread over the term of the lease.
In assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows.
may be utilised, except where the temporary difference arises: payments of principal and interest, the Group considers: 1.9 Share-based payments Assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective from the initial recognition of goodwill: the contractual terms of the instrument, checking consistency interest rate method note 1.7, less any impairment losses.
The group engages in equity-settled and cash-settled sharefrom the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a with a basic lending criteria: Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and based payment transactions in respect of services received transaction, which affects neither the tax profit nor the the impact of the time value of money: impairment are recognised in profit or loss.
Any gain or from its employees.
accounting profit, other than in a business combination: or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit or loss.
features that would change the amount or timing of in relation to investments in subsidiaries and associates, where contractual cash flows: Equity-settled awards at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary other factors, such as prepayment or extension features.
For equity-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the difference and it is the groups intention not to reverse the Debt instruments are measured at FVOCI if its contractual award is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares temporary difference in the foreseeable future.
terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of Derecognition or share options granted on the grant date.
The cost of the principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate employee services received in respect of the shares or share Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights and it is held within a business model whose objective is to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the options granted is recognised in profit or loss over the vesting to receive cash flows have expired or the group has transferred both to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on period, with a corresponding credit to equity.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The fair value of the awards or options granted is determined For debt instruments, interest income is calculated using Impairment of financial assets using a binomial pricing model, which takes into account the the effective interest method.
For equity instruments, 1.11 Cash and cash equivalents The Group recognises loss allowances for expected credit losses current share price, the risk-free interest rate, the expected dividends are recognised as income in profit or loss unless ECLs on financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI Cash comprises cash in hand.
volatility of the companys share price over the life of the the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost and loan commitments held off balance sheet.
option or award, any applicable exercise price and other relevant Cash equivalents comprise money market funds which are of the investment.
All other gains and losses on assets at factors.
Only those vesting conditions that include terms related A financial asset will attract a loss allowance equal to either: realisable on demand and loans and advances to banks with a FVOCI are recognised in OCI.
to market conditions are taken into account in estimating fair maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
12 month expected credit losses losses resulting from at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL value.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account possible defaults within the next 12 months : or For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, by adjusting the number of shares or share options included All equity instruments are measured at FVTPL unless, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents lifetime expected credit losses losses resulting from possible in the measurement of the cost of employee services so that, provided the instrument is not held for trading, the group as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
defaults over the remaining life of the financial asset.
ultimately, the amount recognised in profit or loss reflects the irrevocably elects to measure the instrument at FVOCI.
This number of vested shares or share options, with a corresponding election is made on an  basis.
The latter applies if there has been a significant deterioration in 1.12 Financial assets adjustment to equity.
Where vesting conditions are related to the credit quality of the asset, albeit lifetime ECLs will always be All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised market conditions, the charges for the services received are Initial recognition and measurement recognised for assets without a significant financing component.
cost or FVOCI as described above are measured at FVTPL.
recognised regardless of whether or not the market-related Financial assets, excluding trade receivables, are initially On initial recognition, the Group may irrevocably designate The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the vesting condition is met, provided that any non-market recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to maximum contractual period over which the group is exposed vesting conditions are also met.
Trade receivables are recognised when be measured at amortised cost or FVOCI at FVTPL if doing to credit risk.
issued are charged directly to equity.
so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting The Group measures loss allowances at an amount equal mismatch that would otherwise arise.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus Cash-settled awards to lifetime ECLs, except for treasury book and investment transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition.
Net gains and losses, including any interest or dividend For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised management loan book exposures for which credit risk has Trade receivables without a significant financing component for the services received to the balance sheet date, measured income, are recognised in profit or loss.
not increased significantly since initial recognition, which are are initially measured at the transaction price.
At each subsequent balance sheet measured at 12-month ECLs.
date and at the date on which the liability is settled, the fair value Business model assessment Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial Loss allowances for trust and financial planning debtors are of the liability is remeasured with any changes in fair value recognition unless the group changes its business model for The Group assesses the objective of the business model in always measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs.
recognised in profit or loss.
managing financial assets, in which case all affected financial which a financial asset is held at a portfolio level.
The information assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting considered includes: When assessing whether the credit risk of a financial asset has 1.10 Taxation period following the change in the business model.
increased significantly between the reporting date and initial the objectives for the portfolio and how those tie in to recognition, quantitative and qualitative indicators are used.
Current tax the current and future strategy of the group: More detail can be found at note 32.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on net how the performance of the portfolio is evaluated and taxable income for the year.
Current tax is calculated using reported to the Groups management: tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance the risks that affect the performance of the business model sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable or and the financial assets held within that business model receivable in respect of previous years.
and how those risks are managed: 110 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 rathbones.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Impairment losses related to the groups treasury book and 1 Principal accounting policies continued investment management loan book are presented in interest Measurement of ECLs expense and similar charges and those related to all other financial assets including trust and financial planning debtors Treasury book and investment management loan book are presented under other operating expenses.
No losses are The group has developed a detailed model for calculating presented separately on the statement of the comprehensive ECLs on its treasury book and investment management loan income and there have been no reclassifications of amounts book which includes loan commitments held off balance sheet.
The group has applied considerable judgment in developing three different economic scenarios: a base case, an upside and a downside.
1.13 Property, plant and equipment The base case is assigned a 60% probability of occurring All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, with the upside and downside each assigned a 20% probability which includes directly attributable acquisition costs, less of occurring.
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets to their estimated The economic scenarios are based on the projections of GDP, residual value over their estimated useful lives, using the straight inflation, unemployment rates, house price indices, financial line method, on the following bases: markets and interest rates as set out in the banking system stress testing scenario published annually by the PRA.
leasehold improvements: over the lease term plant, equipment and computer hardware:over three Management adjust the projections for the economic variables in arriving at the upside and downside scenarios.
to 10 years Under each resultant scenario, an expected credit loss is The assets residual lives are reviewed, and adjusted if forecast for each exposure in the treasury book and investment appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses management loan book.
The expected credit loss is calculated on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with based on managements estimate of the probability of default, the carrying amount and these are included in profit or loss.
the loss given default and the exposure at default of each exposure taking into account industry credit loss data, the 1.14 Intangible assets groups own credit loss experience, the expected repayment Goodwill profiles of the exposures and the level of collateral held.
Industry Goodwill arises through business combinations and represents credit loss information is drawn from data on credit defaults for different categories of exposure published by the Council of the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Mortgage Lenders and Standard & Poors.
liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
The model adopts a staging allocation methodology, primarily based on changes in the internal and or external credit rating Goodwill is recognised as an asset and measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, It is allocated to groups of of exposures to identify significant increases in credit risk since inception of the exposure.
Cash generating units are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash The group has not rebutted the presumption that if an exposure inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from is more than 30 days past due, the associated credit risk has other assets or groups of assets and are no larger than the significantly increased.
groups operating segments, as set in note 4.
More detail on the groups staging criteria is provided in note 32.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributed amount of goodwill ECLs are discounted back to the balance sheet date at the that has not been subject to impairment is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
effective interest rate of the asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, being Trust and financial planning debtors the date of the groups transition to IFRS, has been retained The groups trust and financial planning debtors are generally at the previous UK GAAP carrying amounts and is tested for short term and do not contain significant financing components.
Therefore, the group has applied a practical expedient by using a provision matrix to calculate lifetime expected credit losses Client relationships based on actual credit loss experience over the past four years.
Client relationships acquired as part of a business combination are initially recognised at fair value note 1.4.
Determining Credit-impaired financial assets whether a transaction that involves the purchase of client At each reporting date, the group assesses whether financial relationships is treated as a business combination or a separate assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI are credit-impaired.
purchase of intangible assets requires judgement.
The factors A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that the group takes into consideration in making this judgement that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash are set out in note 3.1. flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The groups definition of default is given in note 32.
Presentation of impairment Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
112 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 112 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Impairment losses related to the groups treasury book and Individually purchased client relationships are initially Client relationship intangibles are tested for impairment by 1 Principal accounting policies continued investment management loan book are presented in interest recognised at cost.
Where a transaction to acquire client comparing the fair value of funds under management and Measurement of ECLs expense and similar charges and those related to all other relationship intangibles includes an element of variable administration for each individually acquired client relationship financial assets including trust and financial planning debtors deferred consideration, an estimate is made of the value of or, for client relationships acquired with a business combination, Treasury book and investment management loan book are presented under other operating expenses.
No losses are consideration that will ultimately be paid.
The client relationship each acquired portfolio of clients with their associated The group has developed a detailed model for calculating presented separately on the statement of the comprehensive intangible recognised on the balance sheet is adjusted for any amortised value.
An example of evidence of impairment ECLs on its treasury book and investment management loan income and there have been no reclassifications of amounts subsequent change in the value of deferred consideration.
Note would be lost client relationships.
In determining whether book which includes loan commitments held off balance sheet.
3.1 sets out the approach taken by the group where judgement a client relationship is lost, the group considers factors such as The group has applied considerable judgment in developing is required to determine whether payments made for the the level of funds withdrawn and the existence of other retained three different economic scenarios: a base case, an upside and introduction of client relationships should be capitalised family relationships.
When client relationships are lost, the full a downside.
1.13 Property, plant and equipment as intangible assets or charged to profit or loss.
amount of unamortised cost is recognised immediately in profit The base case is assigned a 60% probability of occurring All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost, or loss and the intangible asset is derecognised.
Client relationships are subsequently carried at the amount with the upside and downside each assigned a 20% probability which includes directly attributable acquisition costs, less initially recognised less accumulated amortisation, which is If the recoverable amount of any asset other than goodwill, of occurring.
Depreciation calculated using the straight line method over their estimated client relationships is estimated to be less than its carrying is charged so as to write off the cost of assets to their estimated The economic scenarios are based on the projections of GDP, useful lives normally 10 to 15 years, but not more than 15 years.
amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its residual value over their estimated useful lives, using the straight inflation, unemployment rates, house price indices, financial recoverable amount.
line method, on the following bases: markets and interest rates as set out in the banking system Computer software and software development costs Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
stress testing scenario published annually by the PRA.
leasehold improvements: over the lease term Costs incurred to acquire and bring to use computer software plant, equipment and computer hardware:over three licences are capitalised and amortised through profit or loss Management adjust the projections for the economic variables 1.16 Financial liabilities in arriving at the upside and downside scenarios.
to 10 years over their expected useful lives three to four years.
Initial recognition and measurement Under each resultant scenario, an expected credit loss is The assets residual lives are reviewed, and adjusted if Costs that are directly associated with the production of Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus forecast for each exposure in the treasury book and investment appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses identifiable and unique software products controlled by the transaction costs that are directly attributable to its issue.
The expected credit loss is calculated on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with group are recognised as intangible assets when the group is based on managements estimate of the probability of default, the carrying amount and these are included in profit or loss.
expected to benefit from future use of the software and the Classification and subsequent measurement the loss given default and the exposure at default of each costs are reliably measurable.
Other costs of producing software Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised exposure taking into account industry credit loss data, the are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Computer software 1.14 Intangible assets cost or at fair value through profit or loss.
groups own credit loss experience, the expected repayment development costs recognised as assets are amortised using Goodwill profiles of the exposures and the level of collateral held.
Industry the straight line method over their useful lives not exceeding The group has not designated any liabilities as fair value through Goodwill arises through business combinations and represents credit loss information is drawn from data on credit defaults for four years.
profit or loss and holds no liabilities as held for trading.
Financial different categories of exposure published by the Council of the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Mortgage Lenders and Standard & Poors.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking 1.15 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition.
into account any issue costs and any discounts or premiums on At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying The model adopts a staging allocation methodology, primarily settlement.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there based on changes in the internal and or external credit rating Goodwill is recognised as an asset and measured at cost less losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Any gain or loss on is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment accumulated impairment losses, It is allocated to groups of of exposures to identify significant increases in credit risk since derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of inception of the exposure.
Cash generating units are identified the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash The group has not rebutted the presumption that if an exposure Derecognition impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from is more than 30 days past due, the associated credit risk has The group derecognises financial liabilities when its contractual cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group other assets or groups of assets and are no larger than the significantly increased.
obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit groups operating segments, as set in note 4. to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher More detail on the groups staging criteria is provided in note 32.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributed amount of goodwill 1.17 Provisions and contingent liabilities of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
In assessing valueECLs are discounted back to the balance sheet date at the that has not been subject to impairment is included in the in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Provisions are recognised when the group has a present determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event market assessments of the time value of money.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, being and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits, that Trust and financial planning debtors the date of the groups transition to IFRS, has been retained can be reliably estimated, will occur.
Provisions are measured at The groups trust and financial planning debtors are generally Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
For the at the previous UK GAAP carrying amounts and is tested for the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to short term and do not contain significant financing components.
purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the impairment annually.
settle the obligation, discounted using a pre-tax rate that reflects Therefore, the group has applied a practical expedient by using groups cash generating units.
The carrying amount of each cash current market assessments of the time value of money and the a provision matrix to calculate lifetime expected credit losses generating unit is compared to its value-in-use, calculated using Client relationships risks specific to the obligation.
based on actual credit loss experience over the past four years.
If the recoverable amount of Client relationships acquired as part of a business combination the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that depend on are initially recognised at fair value note 1.4.
Determining Credit-impaired financial assets unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying the outcome of uncertain future events or those present whether a transaction that involves the purchase of client At each reporting date, the group assesses whether financial amount of the goodwill allocated to that unit and then to the obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain relationships is treated as a business combination or a separate assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI are credit-impaired.
other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying or cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent liabilities are purchase of intangible assets requires judgement.
The factors A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events amount of each asset in the unit.
not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed that the group takes into consideration in making this judgement that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash unless the likelihood of crystallisation is judged to be remote.
are set out in note 3.1. flows of the financial asset have occurred.
112 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 rathbones.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.20 Fiduciary activities 1 Principal accounting policies continued The group commonly acts as trustee and in other fiduciary 1.18 Retirement benefit obligations on retirement capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and benefit schemes other institutions.
Such assets and income arising thereon The groups net liability in respect of defined benefit pension are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the assets of the group.
Largely as a result of cash and settlement amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return processing, the group holds money on behalf of some clients for their service in the current and prior years: that benefit is in accordance with the Client Money Rules of the Financial discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of Conduct Authority, the Jersey Financial Services Commission any plan assets at bid price are deducted.
Any asset resulting and the Solicitors Accounts Rules issued by the Solicitors from this calculation is limited to the present value of available Regulation Authority, as applicable.
Such monies and the refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
corresponding amounts due to clients are not shown on The cost of providing benefits under defined benefit plans the face of the balance sheet as the group is not beneficially is determined using the projected unit credit method, with entitled to them.
actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Net remeasurements of the defined benefit liability are 1.21 Financial guarantees recognised in full in the period in which they occur in other The group provides a limited number of financial guarantees, comprehensive income.
which are backed by assets in clients portfolios.
Financial Past service costs or gains are recognised immediately in the guarantees are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Guarantees are subsequently measured at the higher period of a plan amendment.
of the best estimate of any amount to be paid to settle the The amount recognised in the balance sheet for death in service guarantee and the amount initially recognised less cumulative benefits represents the present value of the estimated obligation, amortisation, which is recognised over the life of the guarantee.
reduced by the extent to which any future liabilities will be met by insurance policies.
1.22 Fair value measurement The company determines the net interest on the net defined The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets benefit liability for the year by applying the discount rate used are based on current bid prices.
If an active market for a financial to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of asset does not exist, the group establishes fair value by using the year to the net defined benefit liability.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option Contributions to defined contribution retirement benefit pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly schemes are charged to profit or loss as an expense as they used by market participants.
The group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value 1.19 Segmental reporting hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred.
The group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is provided internally to the group executive committee, which is the groups chief operating decision maker.
Operating segments are organised around the services provided to clients: a description of the services provided by each segment is given in note 4.
No operating segments have been aggregated in the groups financial statements.
Transactions between operating segments are reported within the income or expenses for those segments: intra-segment income and expenditure is eliminated at group level.
Indirect costs are allocated between segments in proportion to the principal cost driver for each category of indirect costs that is generated by each segment.
114 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 114 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018
