Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31August 2018 Effective for annual periods The introduction of the credit loss model would not 1.
General information beginning on or after: result in an impairment of this loan on transition RDI REIT P. L. C. was incorporated in theIsle Annual improvements to to IFRS 9 as the probability of default is low.
The of Man on 28 June 2004 Registered Number: IFRSs 2015-2017 cycle expanded disclosure requirements and changes to 111198C andwas re-registered under the Isle presentation will change the nature and extent of ofMan Companies Act 2006 on 3 December 2013 IFRS 3 Business combinations the disclosures made by the Group.
amendment IFRS 3 1 January 2019 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 15 is the new standard for the recognition of On 4 December 2013, the Company converted to a revenue, will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 amendment IFRS 11 1 January 2019 UK REIT and transferred its tax residence from the Construction Contracts and will be effective for the Isle of Man to the United Kingdom UK.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Group from 1 September 2018.
The new standard amendment 1 January 2019 The Company holds a primary listing on the Main is based on the principle that revenue is recognised IAS 23 Borrowing costs Market of the London Stock Exchange LSE when control of a good or service transfers to a amendment IAS 23 1 January 2019 and a secondary listing on the Main Board of customer and sets out a five-step model for revenue theJohannesburg Stock Exchange JSE.
IFRS 15 does not apply to rental income which is currently measured in accordance with IFRS 2 ShareBased Payment amendment IFRS 2 1 January 2018 IAS17, to be replaced by IFRS 16 as discussed below 2.
Significant accounting policies which is the Groups primary revenue stream but will IFRS 9 Financial Instruments apply to other sources of income generated by the 2.1 Statement of compliance IFRS 9 1 January 2018 Group such as: service and management fee income The Group financial statements for the year ended IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and income from corporate and property disposals.
31August 2018 have been prepared in accordance amendment IFRS 9 1 January 2019 The Group has considered the criteria of IFRS 15, in with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts particular with reference to the income generated IFRS as issued by the International Accounting with Customers IFRS 15 1 January 2018 from several ancillary services offered to the Standards Board IASB.
The Company financial customers in the serviced offices 1.5million for the IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 1 January 2019 statements have been prepared in accordance with year annualised and has determined that the new IFRS as issued by the IASB and with those parts of IAS 19 Employee benefits standard will not have a material quantitative impact the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 applicable to amendment IAS 19 1 January 2019 on the Group and will result in minimal qualitative companies reporting under IFRS.
The relevant new IAS 28 Investments in Associates changes to revenue disclosures.
standards, amendments and interpretations that and Joint Ventures amendment 1 January 2019 have been adopted, as applicable by the Group and IFRS 16 is the new leasing standard and will be IAS 40 Investment Property the Company, during the year are set out below.
effective for the Group from 1 September 2019. amendment IAS 40 1 January 2018 Accounting for leases whereby the Group is the Interpretations Annual improvements to IFRSs lessor will not significantly change under the new 2014-2016cycle IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions leasing standard.
Changes required to leasing and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities arrangements whereby the Group acts as lessee, amendment IFRS 12 however, will result in the recognition of operating IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over leases as a liability on the Groups balance sheet with Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint a corresponding rightofuse asset.
The Group holds Ventures amendment IAS 28 The Group has assessed the impact of the new long leasehold interests in certain hotel and serviced standards and those standards which could be office properties acquired during 2018 that have Other amendments expected to have an impact on the consolidated been treated as operating leases.
At the effective IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows amendment financial statements are discussed in further date, estimated lease liabilities of 40.9million IAS 7 detailbelow.
and corresponding rightofuse assets which will IAS 12 Income Taxes amendment IAS 12 IFRS 9 applies to the recognition, classification, be disclosed within Investment Property, could be measurement and derecognition of financial assets The adoption of these improvements and expected to be recognised.
and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for amendments has not had a material impact on hedge accounting and a new impairment model for 2.2 Basis of preparation thefinancial statements of the Group or Company.
financial assets and will be effective for the Group The accounting policies otherwise applied The financial statements are presented in Great from 1 September 2018.
The changes required are the same as those applied in the audited British Pounds, which is the functional currency of to the recognition and classification of financial financial statements as at and for the year ended the Company and the presentational currency of instruments will not have a quantitative impact on 31August2017.
the Group, and rounded to the nearest hundred the financial statements and the Group does not thousand pounds.
They are prepared using the Disclosed in the following table are the relevant apply hedge accounting.
The changes required historical cost basis except for investment property, new standards, amendments and interpretations in assessing substantial modification of financial certain assets held for sale, derivative financial that have been issued by the IASB but are not yet liabilities, namely consideration of the transaction instruments and financial instruments designated effective and have not been early adopted.
as a whole, will not result in adjustments to the at fair value through profit and loss, all of which are treatment of debt restructurings that have been carried at fair value.
recognised in the Groups financial statements.
Theintroduction of the expected credit losses model Going concern will replace the incurred loss model but will not have The Directors are satisfied that both the Group and a material impact on the net asset position of the the Company have adequate resources to continue Group as it will apply primarily to trade receivables in operational existence for the foreseeable future and loans to joint ventures.
As at 31August 2018, and for this reason the financial statements have trade receivables, before impairment, accounted been prepared on a going concern basis.
for 1.9million or 0.2 per cent of total net assets of 862.8million.
At 31August 2018, the Groups recognised joint venture was in a net asset position, had serviced all payment obligations under the loan advanced and the loan was not considered impaired.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 125 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 The Group cumulatively holds a 25.3 per cent The Group accounts for business combinations 2.
Significant accounting policies continued shareholding in RBH.
Having considered the using the acquisition method, under which the 2.3 Key judgements and estimates guidance in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial consideration transferred is measured at fair value, The preparation of the financial statements in Statements IFRS 10, the respective rights of each and acquisition related costs are recognised in conformity with IFRS requires the use of judgements of the shareholders in RBH and the relative size the income statement as incurred.
Any excess in and estimates that affect the reported amounts of of the Groups shareholding, the Directors have the purchase price of business combinations over assets and liabilities at the reporting date and the determined that the Group has the ability to exercise the Groups share of the fair value of the assets, reported amounts of revenues and expenses during significant influence over but does not control RBH.
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is the year.
Although these estimates are based on The investment in RBH has therefore been classified recognised as goodwill while any discount received is the Directors best knowledge of the amount, event as an associate.
credited immediately to the income statement.
If it is or actions, actual results may differ materially from determined that an acquisition does not constitute a those estimates.
Fair value of restructured liabilities business combination, the transaction is accounted The principal areas where such judgements and for as an asset acquisition and the relevant IFRSs are New borrowings or existing borrowings which have estimates have been made are detailed below: applied in the recognition of a group of assets and been substantially modified are recognised at fair liabilities.
No goodwill arises on initial recognition but value.
The determination of fair value involves the Investment property valuation any premium paid or discount received is allocated application of judgement.
The Group determines The Group uses valuations determined by fair value by discounting the cash flows associated to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities independent valuers in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair based on their relative fair values.
with the liability at a market discount rate.
The Value Measurement IFRS 13 as the fair value of its key judgement surrounds the determination of The Group recognises noncontrolling interests investment property.
The valuations are based upon an appropriate market benchmark.
Management on the basis of their proportionate share in the assumptions including estimated rental values, future determine the discount rate on a loan by loan basis subsidiarys identifiable net assets.
Non-controlling rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future having regard to the term, duration and security interests are presented separately from the equity development costs and appropriate market yields.
arrangements of the new liability and an estimation of the owners of the Parent on the balance sheet.
The valuers make reference to market evidence of of the current rates charged in the market for similar Profit or loss and total comprehensive income for transaction prices for similar properties.
Where there instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
the year attributable to noncontrolling interests are is a lack of comparable transactional evidence, as This judgement is made more difficult given the presented separately in the income statement and is currently the case for UK shopping centres, then the statement of comprehensive income.
bespoke nature of certain loans obtained by the the degree of potential variability in valuations may Group.
Any difference between the nominal value widen.
Further details in respect of assumptions and If the Group loses control of a subsidiary, theGroup: of the loan and its fair value equivalent will be estimation uncertainties are provided in Note 14. derecognises the assets including any goodwill recognised immediately in the income statement and liabilities of the former subsidiary at their insofar as the fair value measurement is based Corporate and property acquisitions carrying amounts at the date control is lost: on observable inputs.
The deemed fair value will When control is obtained over an entity or group subsequently be accreted through profit or loss derecognises the carrying amount of any of entities, judgement is required in determining over the term of the loan using the effective interest noncontrolling interests in the former subsidiary whether the transaction constitutes a business ratemethod.
at the date control is lost including amounts combination with reference to the inputs, processes of other comprehensive income attributed to and outputs of the subsidiary or subsidiary group Lease classification non-controlling interests : acquired.
If it is determined that the transaction is The Group considers the appropriateness of the a business combination, the requirements of IFRS 3 recognises the fair value of any consideration classification of its leasehold interests in investment Business Combinations IFRS 3 are applied.
received: property as operating or finance leases on a reclassifies to profit or loss, or transfers directly In addition, when a property is acquired directly, propertybyproperty basis, based on the terms the Directors have regard to the substance of the to retained earnings, amounts recognised in and conditions of each lease on inception.
The transaction and whether related processes and other comprehensive income in relation to assessment is based on a balanced evaluation of activities have been assumed which would represent the subsidiary on the same basis as would be both the specific contractual terms and substance a business.
When such an acquisition is considered required if the Parent had directly disposed of of each arrangement, such as: the lease term to be the acquisition of a business, the requirements the related assets or liabilities: constituting a major part of the economic life of of IFRS 3 apply as above, otherwise the transaction recognises any investment retained in the former the property: the fair value of each asset relative is treated as an acquisition of a property asset in line subsidiary at its fair value at the date when to present value of minimum lease payments: a with IAS 40. control is lost: and qualitative review of the transfer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership: and the allocation recognises any resulting difference of the above Classification of UK Hotels as of the lease payments to the land and building items as a gain or loss in the income statement.
investmentproperty elements of each property.
The Group subsequently accounts for any The UK Hotels are held for capital appreciation and investment retained in the former subsidiary in to earn rental income.
Apart from five Travelodge 2.4 Accounting policies accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments branded hotels, the hotels have been let to wholly Basis of consolidation IAS39, or when appropriate, in accordance with owned subsidiaries of RBH Hotel Group Limited Investment in subsidiaries Group IAS 28.
For a change in the Groups interest in a collectively RBH formerly named RedefineBDL subsidiary that does not result in a loss of control, Hotel Group Limited, on lease terms which are A subsidiary is an investee controlled by the Group.
At each review, the revised The Group controls an investee when it has power the Group adjusts the carrying amounts of the rent is set with reference to the forecast EBITDA of over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to controlling and non-controlling interest to reflect each hotel.
RBH runs the hotels operating business thechanges in their relative interests.
Any difference variable returns from its involvement with the and is therefore exposed to fluctuations in the between the value of the noncontrolling interest investee and has the ability to affect those returns underlying trading performance of each hotel acquired or disposed of and the fair value of the through its power over the investee.
RBH is responsible for the key are consolidated in the Groups financial statements consideration is recognised directly in equity and decision making of the business operations and the from the date on which control commences until attributed to the equity holders of the Parent.
daytoday upkeep of the properties.
The Group is not the date that control ceases.
The Group reassesses involved with the operation of the hotel management whether it controls a subsidiary when facts and business and there are limited transactions between circumstances indicate that there arechanges to RDI and RBH.
As a result, the hotels are classified as oneor more elements of control.
investment property in accordance with IAS 40.
126 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Capital contributions result from the nonreciprocal foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing Investment in subsidiaries Company rate and the income statement and statement transfer of resources to an associate or joint Investments in subsidiaries are carried in the venture without a corresponding increase in the of comprehensive income are translated at the Companys separate financial statements at cost Groups equity interest.
Capital contributions are transaction date rates or at an average rate for the less impairment losses, if any.
Impairment losses also accounted for as an increase in the Groups year where this is a reasonable approximation.
are determined with reference to the undertakings netinvestment and are subject to impairment.
Fair value is derived from a review of Revenue recognition the EPRA adjusted net assets of RDI REIT P. L. C. Unrealised gains and losses arising from Rental income, including fixed stepped rent, Group.
Impairment reversals are recognised on transactions with associates and joint ventures are is recognised in the income statement on a a consistentbasis as the original charge and do eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in straightline basis over the lease term.
Tenant lease not exceed cost.
On disposal of subsidiaries, the those entities.
incentives, including rentfree periods granted and difference between the net disposal proceeds and Where the Group obtains significant influence or cash contributions paid, which are an integral part its carrying amount is recognised in the statement joint control over an investment that was previously of securing leases, are amortised as a reduction ofcomprehensive income.
accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39, of rental income over the lease term.
Surrender the Groups previously held interest is remeasured Transactions eliminated on consolidation premiums that are paid by the Group to tenants to to fair value through profit or loss.
The deemed cost vacate a property are also treated as lease incentives Intragroup balances, transactions, any unrealised of the associate or joint venture is the fair value of if the surrender results in an enhanced future rental gains and losses or income and expenses arising the existing investment plus the fair value of any income stream.
Licence fee income from customers from intragroup transactions are eliminated consideration given to achieve significant influence of the London Serviced Office portfolio is recognised in preparing the Group financial statements.
on a basis consistent with rental income from other Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same tenants of the Group, albeit shorter term in nature.
wayasunrealised gains, but only to the extent When the Group ceases to have significant influence Roomhire income of this portfolio is recognised at thatthereis no evidence of impairment.
or joint control, it is accounted for as a disposal of the fair value of the consideration receivable once the entire interest under the equity method, with a Investment in associates and joint ventures the room has been availed of.
resulting gain or loss being recognised in the income Associates are entities over whose financial and statement.
Any retained interest in the investment at Contingent rents are recognised as they arise.
Rent operating policies the Group has the ability to exercise the date when significant influence or joint control is reviews are recognised as income or as a reduction significant influence but not control and which are lost is recognised at fair value on initial recognition thereof from the date it is probable that the revised neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements.
The of a financial asset or, when appropriate, treated terms will be agreed.
Surrender premiums paid by Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as as the deemed cost on initial recognition of an the tenant to terminate a lease early are recognised either joint operations or joint ventures depending investment in an associate.
immediately in the income statement.
on the Groups contractual rights to the assets and Any gain or loss on the dilution of an interest Other income includes service fees, management obligations for the liabilities.
When making this in an equity accounted investee is calculated as fees and other general property related income.
assessment, the Group considers the structure of the difference between the carrying amounts of Service fee income is recognised when the services the arrangements, the legal form of any separate the investment in the equity accounted investee, have been rendered by the Group, the associated vehicles, the contractual terms and other facts and immediately before and after the transaction that costs and recharge margin on those costs can be circumstances specific to each transaction.
resulted in the dilution and is recognised in the measured reliably and with reference to the stage Investments in associates and joint ventures are income statement.
of completion of the service.
Management fees initially recorded at cost and subsequently increased receivable from joint ventures are recognised in or decreased each year by the Groups share of Intangible assets other income during the year in which the services the post-acquisition net profit or loss and other Intangible assets arising on business combinations are rendered and specific performance fees are movements recognised in other comprehensive are carried at cost less impairment.
Amortisation of recognised when the conditions are satisfied.
All income or directly in equity.
The Groups share of intangible assets is recognised in profit or loss on sources of other income are only recognised when the posttax results of the associate or joint venture a straightline basis over their estimated useful life it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to reflects the Groups proportionate interest in the from the date that they are available for use.
Dividends from listed property investments are Currency translation Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate recognised on the date the Groups right to receive Foreign currency transactions or joint venture is included in the carrying amount payment is established.
When the Groups share of Transactions in foreign currencies are translated Interest earned on loans receivable and on cash losses in an associate or joint venture has reduced at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of invested is recognised on an accruals basis using the the carrying amount to zero, including any other the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities effective interest rate method.
denominated in foreign currencies at the unsecured receivables, the Group does not reporting date are translated to the functional recognise further losses, unless it has incurred Service charges obligations to make payments on behalf of the currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at associate or joint venture.
Foreign exchange differences arising on Where the Group invoices budgeted service charges translation are recognised in the income statement.
to tenants, amounts received are not recognised as As goodwill forms part of the carrying amount of the Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in income as the risks in relation to the subsequent net investment, it is not recognised separately and it foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are provision of actual goods and services are primarily is not tested for impairment separately.
Instead, the borne by the tenants during the service charge translated to the functional currency at the foreign entire amount of the investment in an associate or exchange rates ruling at the date that the values period.
Consequently, amounts received are joint venture is tested for impairment as a single asset aredetermined.
recognised as a liability on the balance sheet and where there is objective evidence that the investment reduced by the actual service charge expenditure may be impaired.
Reversals of impairment are Foreign operations incurred.
Any nonrecoverable service charge recorded as an adjustment to the investment balance expenses suffered by the Group, as a result of void Exchange differences arising from the translation of to the extent that the recoverable amount of the the net investment in foreign operations are taken to or capped units, are included within rental expense associate or joint venture increases.
the foreign currency translation reserve.
Cumulative in the income statement.
exchange differences are subsequently released to the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal.
On consolidation, the balance sheets of RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 127 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 As the fair value model is applied, property under 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Investment property construction or redevelopment for future use as In accordance with IAS 40, Paragraph 14, judgement 2.4 Accounting policies continued investment property continues to be measured may be required to determine whether a property Employee benefits and at fair value unless the fair value cannot be qualifies as investment property.
The Group has share-basedpayments measured reliably and the property is measured developed criteria so that it can exercise judgement Employee benefits, such as salaries and other at cost.
Allfinance costs directly associated with consistently in recognising investment property, benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the acquisition and construction of a qualifying namely: property held for long term capital the period during which employees have provided development property are capitalised during appreciation: property owned or held under finance services.
Bonuses are recognised to the extent that a the period of active development until practical leases and leased out under one or more operating legal or constructive obligation to employees can be completion.
The rate applied is the actual rate leases: and property that is being developed for measured reliably.
payable on specific borrowings or the weighted future use as investment property.
The recognition average cost of debt of the Group for development Sharebased incentives are provided to certain and classification of property as investment property spend that is financed out of general funds.
principally assumes that the Group: employees and Executive Directors for services rendered.
The sharebased payments are all Acquisition and disposals of investment property does not retain significant exposure to the equitysettled.
The fair value of each award granted are recognised when significant risks and rewards variation in cash flows arising from the is calculated at the grant date, using the Monte attached to the property have transferred to, underlying operations of tenants: and Carlo and BlackScholes valuation methodologies.
This will ordinarily occur on will recover the carrying value through continuing The fair value is not subsequently remeasured and exchange of contracts unless there are significant rental income streams and longer term capital is recognised in the sharebased payment reserve conditions pending completion.
in equity on a straightline basis over the vesting are recognised when these conditions are satisfied.
period as adjusted for the estimate of the awards Investment properties are initially recognised at The profit or loss on disposal of investment property that will eventually vest at each reporting date.
The cost, including directly attributable transaction is recognised separately in the income statement corresponding compensation cost is recognised as costs, and subsequently measured at fair value.
and is the difference between the net sales proceeds an administrative expense over the vesting period.
The portfolios are valued on a biannual basis by and the opening fair value asset plus any capital external, independent and professionally qualified expenditure during the period to disposal.
At the end of the performance period, a reserves valuers, having recent experience in the location transfer occurs with no further charge reflected in A property ceases to be recognised as investment and category of the property being valued.
property and is transferred at its fair value to fair values are based on market values, being the property held for sale when it meets the criteria estimated amount for which the property could Income taxes ofIFRS 5. be exchanged on a highest and best use basis Income tax on the profit or loss for the year Property held by the Group under long term leases between a willing buyer and seller in an arms comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is is also treated as investment property in line with lengthtransaction.
recognised in the income statement except to the IAS 40 Investment Property IAS 40.
The Groups extent that it relates to items recognised in other The valuations are determined by considering leasehold interests are classified as either finance comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which comparable and timely market transactions for or operating leases dependent on whether the risks case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
sales and lettings and having regard for the current and rewards of ownership of the property have leases in place.
In the case of lettings, this includes Current tax is based on taxable profit or loss for substantially transferred to the Group.
Finance consideration of the aggregate net annual market the year and is calculated using tax rates that have leases are recognised as both an asset and a rents achievable for the property and associated been enacted or substantively enacted by the liability and are measured at the lower of fair value costs.
A yield which reflects the risks inherent in the reporting date.
Taxable profit differs from net profit and the present value of any future minimum future cash flows is applied to the net annual rents as reported in the income statement because it lease payments.
The finance lease obligation to to arrive at the property valuation.
excludes items of income that are not taxable or the superior leaseholder is recognised within expenses that are not tax deductible.
The biannual valuations of investment property are borrowings on the balance sheet.
Lease payments based upon estimates and subjective judgements are apportioned between the finance charges and Deferred tax is recognised using the balance that may vary materially from the actual values and the capital reduction of the lease obligation so as to sheet liability method, providing for temporary sales prices that may be realised by the Group upon achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining differences between the carrying amounts of assets ultimate disposal.
The critical assumptions made in balance of the liability over the lease term.
Finance and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and determining the valuations have been included in charges are charged through profit or loss as they their relative tax base.
The amount of deferred Note 14 to the financial statements.
Operating lease payments are charged to tax provided is based on the expected manner of the income statement as a rental expense on a realisation or settlement, using tax rates enacted or In determining fair value, the market value of the straightline basis over the lease term.
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
property as determined by the independent valuers is reduced by the carrying amount of tenant lease The following temporary differences are not Property, plant and equipment incentives and increased by the carrying amount of provided for: those arising from goodwill not Items of property, plant and equipment are fixed head leases.
deductible for tax purposes: those arising from the measured at cost less accumulated depreciation initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value andany accumulated impairment losses.
neither accounting or taxable profit: and those of investment property are included in the income Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it relating to investments in subsidiaries and joint statement in the year in which they arise.
is probable that the future economic benefits ventures where the timing of the reversal can be associated with the expenditure will flow to the Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to investment controlled and it is probable that the temporary Group.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the property when the expenditure incurred enhances difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
cost of items less their estimated residual values the future economic benefits associated with the using the straightline method over their estimated A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent property, such as enhanced future rental income, useful lives and is generally recognised in profit or that it is probable that future taxable profits will be capital appreciation or both.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter available against which the asset can be utilised and refurbishments under lease arrangements are of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable treated as tenant lease incentives and amortised is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred against rental income over the term of the lease.
ownership by the end of the lease term.
Property, tax liabilities are provided only to the extent plant and equipment are depreciated over a period that there are not sufficient tax losses to shield of between 2 to 5 years.
128 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Where there is commitment to a sale plan involving Financial instruments Impairment of financial assets the loss of control of a subsidiary, the loss of joint Financial assets not carried at fair value through Recognition and derecognition control of a joint venture or significant influence profit or loss are assessed at each reporting date A financial instrument is recognised when the Group over a joint venture and the criteria set out above to determine whether there is objective evidence or Company becomes a party to the contractual are met, the Group classifies all the assets and of impairment.
A financial asset is impaired if provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are liabilities of that subsidiary or the equity accounted objective evidence indicates that a loss event has derecognised when the contractual rights to the investment in the joint venture or associate as held occurred and factors include: adverse changes in cash flows from those assets expire or when the for sale.
This classification is appropriate regardless the payment status of a debtor or issuer: default or assets are transferred to another party without of whether a noncontrolling interest will be retained delinquency by a debtor: restructuring of an amount retaining control or substantially all risks and after the sale.
Where significant influence over an due on terms that the Group or Company would not rewards of ownership.
Regular way purchases and associate will not be lost, only that portion of the consider otherwise: potential bankruptcy of a debtor sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade investment for which there is a commitment to sell or issuer: and economic conditions that correlate date.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the shall be reclassified as held for sale.
with defaults or the disappearance of an active obligations specified in the contract expire.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current Non-derivative financial instruments assets and disposal groups are ordinarily An impairment loss is calculated as the difference Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised measured at the lower of the previous carrying between the carrying amount of the financial asset initially at fair value plus, for those instruments not amount and fair value less costs to sell, with any and the present value of the estimated future cash designated at fair value through profit or loss, any adjustments recognised in the income statement flows discounted at the assets original effective directly attributable transaction costs.
Nonderivative and subsequently remeasured at each reporting interest rate.
When a subsequent event objectively financial instruments comprise investments in equity date.
Certain assets such as financial assets within causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, securities, trade and other receivables, cash and the scope of IAS 39 and investment property in the decrease in impairment loss is calculated on a cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade the scope of IAS 40 continue to be measured in basis consistent with the impairment charge but the and other payables.
Loan receivables and payables accordance with those standards.
carrying value after any reversal must not exceed the are subsequently measured at amortised cost using original carrying value.
Gains and losses on remeasurement and the effective interest rate method.
impairment losses subsequent to classification Impairment losses and reversals are recognised as held for sale are presented within continuing in the income statement and reflected in an Investments at fair value through profit or loss operations in the income statement, unless they allowance account against loans and receivables.
An instrument is classified at fair value through profit meet the definition of a discontinued operation.
Finance income on impaired interestbearing assets or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as Noncurrent assets held for sale are presented continues to be recognised.
Financial instruments separately under current assets on the balance are designated as fair value through profit or loss if sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents the Group or Company manages such investments Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and makes purchase and sale decisions based on Borrowings on hand, cash deposited with financial institutions their fair value.
Upon initial recognition, attributable Interestbearing borrowings are recognised initially and short term call deposits.
Cash and cash transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as at fair value less directly attributable transaction equivalents are recognised at fair value and have incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through costs.
Any difference between the transaction maturities of less than three months.
Restricted cash profit or loss comprise equity securities and are price and the deemed fair value of the borrowing comprises cash deposits that are restricted until the measured at fair value with changes therein at each is treated as a gain or loss in the income statement fulfilment of certain conditions.
reporting date recognised in the income statement.
when the determination of fair value is based on Fair values are determined by reference to their observable inputs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, Non-current assets and disposal quoted bid price at the reporting date.
interestbearing borrowings are measured at groupsheldfor sale amortised cost.
Any differences between cost and Derivative financial instruments A noncurrent asset or a disposal group comprising the redemption value as a result of transaction costs Derivative financial instruments are held to assets and liabilities is classified as held for sale if it incurred or fair value adjustments are recognised in manage interest rate risk exposures.
Derivatives is expected that the carrying value will be recovered the income statement over the contractual term of are recognised initially at fair value on the date principally through sale rather than through the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
the Group or Company becomes party to the continuing use and the sale is highly probable.
contract: any attributable transaction costs are The asset or disposal group must be available for A financial liability is derecognised when it is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
immediate sale, be actively marketed at a reasonable extinguished.
This may happen when: Derivatives are subsequently remeasured to fair approximation to fair value and the sale must have full repayment is made to the lender: value at each reporting date, and changes therein the appropriate level of management commitment.
the borrower is legally released from primary are accounted for in the income statement and The sale may complete beyond a period of one responsibility for the financial liability: or presented under change in fair value of derivative year from classification so long as there is sufficient financial instruments.
The Group does not apply evidence of a firm commitment from both parties where there is an exchange of debt instruments hedgeaccounting.
and the circumstances of the delay are beyond the with substantially different terms or a substantial Groups or Companys control.
modification to the existing terms of a debt instrument.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 129 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Share capital 3.
Segmental reporting Ordinary share capital As required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, 2.4 Accounting policies continued the information provided to the Board, which is the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External Borrowings continued Chief Operating Decision Maker, has been classified costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, In the event of a substantial modification of terms, into thefollowing segments: net of tax, are shown as a deduction from any any difference between the carrying amount recognised share premium.
of the original liability and the consideration UK Commercial: paid is recognised in the income statement.
Where the Companys own equity instruments are The Groups portfolio of Greater London and Theconsideration paid includes non-financial purchased as the result of a share buyback, the regional offices, London serviced offices, roadside assets transferred and the assumption of liabilities, consideration paid by the Group, including any service stations and logistics distributioncentres: including the new modified financial liability.
directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, Themodified borrowing is recognised initially at fair isdeducted from equity attributable to the owners UK Retail: value and subsequently carried at amortised cost as treasury shares until the shares are cancelled The Groups portfolio of shopping centres, retail under the effective interest rate method.
parks and other high street retail assets: or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain orloss on extinguishment.
Dividends UK Hotels: Dividends to shareholders are recognised when Where existing borrowings are exchanged for new The Groups hotel portfolio comprising they become legally payable.
In the case of interim or amended borrowings and the terms are not 18predominantly limited-service branded hotels dividends, this is when the dividends are declared by substantially different, the new borrowings are nine of which were acquired as part of the the Board.
recognised initially at the carrying amount of the IHLtransaction refer to Note 9 : existing borrowings.
Any costs or fees incurred Earnings per share five Travelodge branded and externally adjust the carrying amount of the borrowings and The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per managed hotels: and are amortised over the remaining term.
share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is 13 RBH managed hotels, of which ten are Ongoing finance costs and debt servicing payments calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable Holiday Inn Express, two Hilton branded are recognised in the income statement on to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the andone Crowne Plaza.
an accruals basis, using the effective interest weighted average number of ordinary shares ratemethod.
The Groups hotel interests also include the outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is 25.3 per cent investment in RBH an additional determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable Provisions, capital commitments and 5.1 per cent, previously classified as held for to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average contingent liabilities sale, was disposed on 14 February 2018.
RBH number of ordinary shares outstanding adjusted for is an independent hotel management company A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
engaged in developing and managing a diverse event, the Group or Company has a present legal In line with the JSE Listing Requirements, the Group portfolio of hotels in partnership with reputable or constructive obligation that can be estimated also presents headline earnings per share.
international hotel brands: reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the Segmental reporting Europe: obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting An operating segment is a component of the Group the expected cash flows to present value using an The Groups portfolio in Germany, comprising that engages in business activities from which it may appropriate discount rate that reflects the risks shopping centres, discount supermarkets and earn revenues and in respect of which it may incur specific to the liability.
On 29 December 2017, the Group expenses, including revenues and expenses that disposed of its interests in the Leopard Portfolio Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic relate to transactions with any of the Groups other which comprised 66 retail properties, being a benefits will be required, or the amount cannot components.
An operating segments operating mixture of standalone supermarkets, foodstore be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating anchored retail parks and cash and carry as a contingent liability, unless the probability of Decision Maker to inform decisions about resources stores.
In the prior period, the Groups interests outflow of economic benefits is remote.
Capital to be allocated to the segment and to assess its also included Government-let offices until commitments are disclosed when the Group or performance, and for which discrete financial 1January2017: and Company has a contractual future obligation to a information is available as disclosed in Note 3. third party which has not been provided for at the Other: balance sheet date.
The Groups holding and management companies that carry out the head office and centralised asset management activities of the Group.
Management information, as presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker, is prepared on a proportionately consolidated basis.
Segmental reporting is therefore reported in line with management information, with the Groups share ofjoint ventures presented line-by-line.
Joint venture adjustments are disclosed to reconcile segmental performance and position to the consolidated financial statements.
130 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Segmental income statement Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Other Total adjustments total for the year ended 31August 2018 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue Rental income 31.3 38.4 24.5 17.8 112.0 1.8 110.2 Other operating income 1.1 0.7 1.8 1.8 Total revenue 32.4 38.4 24.5 17.8 0.7 113.8 1.8 112.0 Rental income 31.3 38.4 24.5 17.8 112.0 1.8 110.2 Rental expense 4.5 2.8 1.3 2.7 11.3 0.2 11.1 Net rental income 26.8 35.6 23.2 15.1 100.7 1.6 99.1 Other operating income 1.1 0.7 1.8 1.8 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property 24.3 26.1 6.2 6.2 10.6 0.2 10.8 Gain on revaluation of investment property held for sale 0.9 0.9 0.9 Gain loss on disposal of investment property 1.6 0.1 1.5 1.5 Gain on disposal of investment property held for sale 1.8 1.8 1.8 Net gain loss on disposal of subsidiaries 1.2 1.9 16.1 15.4 15.4 Net loss gain on acquisition of subsidiaries 1.1 5.5 4.4 4.4 Loss on disposal of other non-current assets held for sale 0.1 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange loss 0.8 0.8 0.8 Finance income on loans to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Other underlying finance income 0.3 0.3 0.3 Finance expense 7.1 15.0 5.1 2.9 30.1 0.8 29.3 Other finance expense 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.6 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 2.4 2.8 0.9 0.7 6.8 0.7 6.1 Reversal of impairment of loan to joint venture 0.1 0.1 0.1 Loss on sale of joint venture interests 0.1 0.1 0.1 Share of post-tax profit from associate 0.3 0.3 0.3 Total per reportable segments 51.9 4.6 30.9 34.5 0.2 112.9 1.0 111.9 1 Unallocated income and expenses: Administrative costs and other fees 14.4 0.2 14.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Profit before tax 98.2 0.8 97.4 Taxation 1.3 0.2 1.1 96.9 0.6 96.3 Joint venture adjustments: 2 Movement of losses restricted in joint ventures 0.6 0.6 IFRS profit for the year 96.3 96.3 1 Unallocated income and expenses are items incurred centrally which are neither directly attributable nor can be reasonably allocated to individual segments.
2 As detailed in Note 17, the Groups joint venture interest in the Esplanade has been reduced to Nil in the financial statements in line with IAS 28.
On a proportionate basis, theGroups share in the net liabilities of the Esplanade are recognised line-by-line.
Movements in the losses of the Esplanade that are not recognised on an equity accounted basis during each reporting period are presented to reconcile segmental information to the IFRS statements.
Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Other segmental information Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Other Total adjustments total for the year ended 31August 2018 m m m m m m m m Inter-segmental revenue and expense: Management fee income 5.7 5.7 5.7 Management fee expense 1.6 1.6 0.6 1.3 0.6 5.7 5.7 1.6 1.6 0.6 1.3 5.1 Intersegmental revenue and expense relate to intercompany investment management fees that eliminate on consolidation.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 131 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 3.
Segmental reporting continued Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Segmental balance sheet Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total adjustments total as at 31August 2018 m m m m m m m Investment property 515.9 485.4 364.1 258.0 1,623.4 25.4 1,598.0 Investment in associate 9.1 9.1 9.1 Trade and other receivables 4.0 6.7 1.7 3.9 16.3 0.5 15.8 Cash and cash equivalents 20.1 9.9 7.5 5.1 42.6 0.8 41.8 Borrowings, including finance leases 199.8 309.1 164.9 131.4 805.2 15.6 789.6 Trade and other payables 9.0 11.4 2.6 2.3 25.3 0.6 24.7 Segmental net assets 331.2 181.5 214.9 133.3 860.9 10.5 850.4 Unallocated assets and liabilities: Other noncurrent assets 1.3 1.3 Trade and other receivables 2.5 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents 17.2 17.2 Net derivative financial instruments 4.6 2.8 1.8 Deferred tax 10.1 0.6 9.5 Trade and other payables 2.4 2.4 Current tax liabilities 2.0 2.0 862.8 7.1 855.7 Joint venture adjustments: 1 Investment in joint ventures 1.9 1.9 1 Loans to joint ventures 5.2 5.2 IFRS net assets 862.8 862.8 1 As detailed in Note 17, the Groups interest in the Esplanade is carried at Nil in the financial statements in line with IAS 28.
On a proportionate basis, the Groups share in the net liabilities of the Esplanade are recognised line-by-line.
At 31August 2018, cumulative losses equalled the Groups net investment in the joint venture 31August2017:exceeded by 0.7million.
Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Other segmental information Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total adjustments total as at 31August 2018 m m m m m m m Additions to investment property during the year per reportable segment: Business combinations Note 9 161.7 115.4 277.1 277.1 Acquisition of property 20.9 20.9 20.9 Capitalised expenditure 1.0 4.0 3.2 5.9 14.1 14.1 Capitalised finance costs 0.7 0.7 0.7 183.6 4.0 118.6 6.6 312.8 312.8 132 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Segmental income statement Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Other Total adjustments total for the year ended 31August 2017 m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue Rental income 24.8 39.8 14.8 23.7 103.1 5.9 97.2 1 Other operating income 0.1 2.6 2.7 2.0 4.7 Distributions from investment at fair value 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total revenue 24.8 39.8 15.0 23.8 2.6 106.0 3.9 102.1 Rental income 24.8 39.8 14.8 23.7 103.1 5.9 97.2 Rental expense 1.0 5.1 3.5 9.6 0.6 9.0 Net rental income 23.8 34.7 14.8 20.2 93.5 5.3 88.2 1 Other operating income 0.1 2.6 2.7 2.0 4.7 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property 27.8 21.2 6.6 3.3 9.9 0.9 10.8 Loss on revaluation of investment property held for sale 3.9 3.9 3.9 Gain on disposal of investment property 5.9 3.3 9.2 9.2 Gain on disposal of investment property held for sale 0.9 0.6 1.5 1.5 Distributions from investment at fair value 0.2 0.2 0.2 Loss on revaluation of investment at fair value 0.3 0.3 0.3 Finance income on loans to joint ventures 2.7 2.7 Finance income 0.7 0.7 0.7 Finance expense 6.3 15.6 3.3 4.5 29.7 1.3 28.4 Other finance income and expense 0.1 6.3 0.3 0.1 6.2 0.3 6.5 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 2.8 2.2 0.7 1.3 5.6 1.1 4.5 Group gain on sale of joint venture interests 5.6 5.6 0.7 4.9 Joint venture loss on sale of subsidiaries 0.7 0.7 0.7 Impairment of investment in associate 0.5 0.5 0.5 Share of post-tax profit from associate 1.1 1.1 1.1 Transfer of foreign currency translation on disposal of joint venture interest 2.0 2.0 2.0 Total per reportable segment 54.8 6.8 17.9 21.6 3.2 90.7 0.2 90.9 2 Unallocated income and expenses: 1 Administrative costs and other fees 15.6 0.3 15.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Profit before tax 74.9 0.5 75.4 Taxation 4.4 0.5 3.9 70.5 1.0 71.5 Joint venture adjustments: 3 Movement of losses restricted in joint ventures 0.9 0.9 Reversal of impairment of loans to joint ventures 0.4 0.4 Share of posttax loss from joint ventures 2.3 2.3 IFRS profit for the year 69.6 69.6 1 Other operating income includes management fee income from joint ventures.
On a proportionate basis, and for segmental reporting purposes, the Group share of the total joint venture investment management expense has been reclassified from administrative costs and other fees.
2 Unallocated income and expenses are items incurred centrally which are neither directly attributable nor can be reasonably allocated to individual segments.
3 As detailed in Note 17, the Groups interest in the Esplanade has been reduced to date to Nil in the financial statements in line with IAS 28.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 3.
Segmental reporting continued Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Other segmental information Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Other Total adjustments total for the year ended 31August 2017 m m m m m m m m Inter-segmental revenue and expense: Management fee income 6.9 6.9 6.9 Management fee expense 1.6 2.3 0.1 1.4 1.5 6.9 6.9 1.6 2.3 0.1 1.4 5.4 Intersegmental revenue and expense relate to intercompany investment management fees that eliminate on consolidation.
Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Segmental balance sheet Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total adjustments total as at 31August 2017 m m m m m m m Investment property 355.7 507.5 239.3 418.0 1,520.5 25.6 1,494.9 Investment at fair value through profit or loss 8.5 8.5 8.5 Investment in associate 9.4 9.4 9.4 Trade and other receivables 3.6 7.8 0.8 7.8 20.0 0.4 19.6 Cash and cash equivalents 28.1 5.2 5.0 5.3 43.6 0.6 43.0 Noncurrent assets held for sale 9.3 12.9 1.5 3.6 27.3 27.3 Borrowings, including finance leases 188.9 317.3 113.1 218.8 838.1 16.3 821.8 Trade and other payables 2.9 9.4 1.2 4.3 17.8 0.8 17.0 Segmental net assets 204.9 206.7 150.2 211.6 773.4 9.5 763.9 Unallocated assets and liabilities: Other noncurrent assets 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables 4.3 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 9.8 9.8 Net derivative financial instruments 10.9 3.5 7.4 Deferred tax 10.8 0.4 10.4 Trade and other payables 4.2 4.2 Current tax liabilities 1.2 1.2 761.6 5.6 756.0 Joint venture adjustments: Joint venture noncontrolling interest 0.1 0.1 1 Cumulative losses restricted in joint ventures 0.7 0.7 1 Investment in joint ventures 1.9 1.9 1 Loans to joint ventures 4.3 4.3 IFRS net assets 762.2 762.2 1 As detailed in Note 17, the Groups interest in the Esplanade has been reduced to Nil in the financial statements in line with IAS 28.
On a proportionate basis, the Groups share in the net liabilities of the Esplanade are recognised linebyline.
The cumulative losses of this joint venture that the Group has not recognised on an equity accounted basis at the reporting date are presented to reconcile segmental information to the IFRS statements.
Joint UK UK UK venture IFRS Other segmental information Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total adjustments total as at 31August 2017 m m m m m m m Additions to investment property during the year per reportable segment: Capitalised expenditure 1.0 3.5 2.9 12.2 19.6 19.6 Capitalised finance costs and debt issue costs 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.5 Acquisition of control of former joint venture 80.8 80.8 75.0 155.8 1.0 3.5 3.1 93.3 100.9 75.0 175.9 134 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 4.
Rental income Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Gross lease payments from third parties 88.2 83.2 Gross lease payments from related parties Note 34 22.0 14.0 Rental income 110.2 97.2 The future aggregate minimum rents receivable under noncancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date are as follows: Not later than one year 104.8 98.0 Later than one year not later than five years 312.2 329.8 Later than five years 351.5 347.7 768.5 775.5 5.
Rental expense Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Nonrecoverable service charge 3.3 4.1 Direct property operating expenses 4.9 4.7 1 Operating lease expense 1.4 Letting costs 0.6 0.2 Serviced office portfolio direct staff and sales costs 0.9 Rental expense 11.1 9.0 1 Refer to Note 23 for the undiscounted future minimum lease obligations under noncancellable operating leases at reporting date.
Other operating income Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Service fee income 1.8 Service fee expense 0.8 1 Service fee margin 1.0 2 Management fees from joint ventures including performance fee Note 34 0.1 3.8 Insurance rebates 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 Salary recharges 0.3 0.3 Other property related income 0.1 0.2 Other operating income 1.8 4.7 0.3 0.4 1 Service fees relates to recoverable costs incurred by the Group in the newly acquired serviced office portfolio that are recharged to tenants at a margin.
2 The Group was responsible for the investment management of the property portfolio of the Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. joint venture.
The Group was incentivised during theinvestment period by a performance fee dependent on the internal rate of return achieved on disposal which occurred during the year ended 31August 2017.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 135 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 7.
Administrative costs and other fees Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Staff costs 6.3 5.5 2.6 2.3 Professional fees 2.9 2.7 1.3 2.0 Share-based payments Note 35 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 General administrative expenses 3.4 4.5 1.8 1.4 Investment management fees to related parties Note 34 0.6 Intragroup investment management fees 0.8 Nonrecurring costs: Investment management fees to third party including termination fee 1.6 Administrative costs and other fees 14.2 15.3 6.7 7.5 8.
Disposal of subsidiaries The impact of corporate disposals during the year and the net cash inflow is presented below: Lochside View, Paragon Leopard 31 August Edinburgh Square, Hull Portfolio 2018 Group m m m m Carrying value of net assets disposed Investment property 11.2 12.9 158.4 182.5 Trade and other receivables 0.4 0.2 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 1.6 1.8 Borrowings 73.1 73.1 Trade and other payables 0.2 0.2 0.8 1.2 Net assets disposed 11.6 12.7 86.3 110.6 1 Consideration received 13.0 11.0 103.6 127.6 1 Transaction costs 0.2 0.2 1.2 1.6 Net gain on disposal of subsidiaries 1.2 1.9 16.1 15.4 1 Net cash received at 31August 2018 was 126.2million as transaction costs on the Lochside disposal had not been paid at the reporting date.
The Leopard Portfolio was comprised of 66 retail properties a mixture of standalone supermarkets, foodstore anchored retail parks and cash and carry stores.
On29December 2017, the Group disposed of all but one of the property-owning subsidiaries of the Leopard Portfolio to an external party for 103.6million 116.6million, after the deduction of transaction costs of 1.2million 1.3million.
On the date of sale, the carrying value of investment property within these subsidiaries was 158.4million 178.4million, on which 73.1million 82.3million of bank debt was secured.
The net assets of the target group on the date of sale was 86.3million 97.2million and the Group has recognised a gain on disposal of 16.1million 18.1million.
The investment property of the remaining property-owning entity was acquired by the same party by way of a direct asset sale see Note 14.
Redefine Paragon Square Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, owned the House of Fraser department store in Hull.
On 15 November 2017, the Group disposed of this subsidiary for 11.0million.
The net assets of the subsidiary were 12.7million on disposal and the Group recognised a loss of 1.9million in the income statement, after transaction costs.
Net cash received at the balance sheet date, after transactions costs paid, was 10.8million.
Redefine Lochside View Edinburgh Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, owned a regional office in Edinburgh.
On 31August 2018, the Group disposed of this subsidiary for 13.0million subject to a completion adjustment.
The net assets of the subsidiary were 11.6million on disposal and the Group recognised a gain of 1.2million in the income statement, after transaction costs.
Net cash received at the balance sheet date was 13.0million as transaction costs had not yet been paid.
No subsidiaries of the Group were disposed of during the year ended 31August 2017.
136 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 9. Business combinations 31 August LSO IHL 2018 Group m m m Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired Investment property 161.7 115.4 277.1 Trade and other receivables 0.9 1.9 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents 5.7 2.1 7.8 Borrowings 73.5 54.4 127.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 1.0 0.6 Trade and other payables 6.2 2.2 8.4 Net assets acquired 89.0 61.8 150.8 Consideration transferred: Equity share-for-share exchange 19.3 19.3 1 Cash 71.2 7.5 78.7 71.2 26.8 98.0 Investment in associate Note 18 13.5 13.5 Non-controlling interests proportionate share of the identifiable n et assets Note 29 17.8 16.0 33.8 1 Transaction costs 1.1 1.1 Net gain on business combinations 1.1 5.5 4.4 1 Net cash paid at 31August 2018 was 80.6million including transaction costs and settlement of tax liabilities assumed of 0.8million.
LSO On 12 January 2018, RDI completed the corporate acquisition of 80 per cent of the issued share capital of St Dunstans Hold Co Limited and LSO Services Limited LSOPortfolio, for a consideration of 71.2million.
The LSO portfolio consists of the freehold and long-leasehold interests in four established high-quality flexible offices in London.
This acquisition significantly enhanced the quality of the overall property portfolio of the Group with strong property fundamentals and reduced leverage.
Our strategic partner, OSIT, operates the serviced office business of each property under management contracts, while the Group employs staff directly for the day-to-dayoperations.
It has been determined that the transaction constitutes a business combination after due consideration of the assets and related processes that have been assumed, notably the management contract with OSIT.
The fair value of the net assets acquired on 12 January 2018 was 89.0million.
OSITs minority share of the identifiable net assets is 17.8million.
As the consideration was determined with reference to net asset value, the Group did not pay a premium or obtain a discount.
Transaction costs of 1.1million were incurred by the Group which have been expensed in the income statement within the net gain on business combinations.
This portfolio has been classified as investment property in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Receivables acquired were 0.9million, all of which were fully collectable.
Revenue from LSO since acquisition was 10.8million comprising rental and net services income.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 September 2017, LSO would have generated 16.2million assuming a consistent revenue stream throughout the year.
IHL International Hotel Properties Limited IHL is established as a hotel investment company and was listed on the Euro MTF market of the LuxSE and on the AltX of the JSE.
IHL comprises nine limited service UK hotels and at 31August 2017 the Group held a 17.2 per cent interest, classified as an investment at fair value through profit or loss see Note 16.
During the year, RDI submitted a proposal to the IHL board to increase its shareholding in IHL by way of a scheme of arrangement.
RDI would acquire the shares of all scheme participants, being the minority interests 29.3 per cent of IHL.
IHL shareholder approval was obtained on 15 September 2017, at which point the transaction became subject only to Court approval.
The Group was considered to have significant influence over IHL from this date and the investment was reclassified as an investment in associate Note 18.
On 13 November 2017 and on fulfilment of all conditions precedent to the scheme of arrangement, the Group acquired 16.4million shares in IHL from scheme participants and 1.9million shares from Redefine Properties, increasing RDIs interest in IHL from 26.2 to 58.9 per cent.
The value attributed to each IHL share was 1, settled in a share-for-share exchange with RDI shares at a value of 40.0 pence.
45.9million RDI shares were issued in total representing gross consideration of 18.3million.
On 17 November 2017, 8.5million shares in IHL were purchased at 1 per share.
Consideration for these shares was 7.5million in cash and the issuance of 2.5million RDI shares at 40.0 pence per share 1.0million in total.
The transactions increased the Groups interests in IHL to 74.1 per cent.
The residual 25.9 per cent non-controlling interest in IHL is held by one party, Southern Sun Africa TSogo Sun.
Since 13 November 2017, the Group has directed the operating and financial decisions of IHL and has been exposed to its variable returns.
RDI acquired control of IHL on this date, which is also considered the acquisition date for the purposes of IFRS 3.
The transaction has been accounted for as a business combination, having regard for the integrated set of assets, processes and outputs that were acquired and that are capable of producing a return for the Group.
The fair value of the net assets of IHL acquired on the acquisition date of 15 September 2017 was 61.8million.
The fair value of the cash and equity consideration transferred was 26.8million, while the carrying value of the Groups associate interest was 13.5million.
TSogo Suns proportionate share of the identifiable net assets was 16.0million and, as a result, the Group has recognised a net gain on bargain purchase of IHL of 5.5million.
This represents the difference between the share price and swap ratio agreed with shareholders and the net assets based on a thirdparty valuation of the investment property at completion date.
The gain has been recognised in the income statement within the net gain on business combinations.
Minimal acquisition costs were incurred by the Group on account of the structuring of the transaction.
RDI share issue costs have been recognised directly in equity as a reduction of share premium.
The hotels acquired have been classified as investment property on initial recognition as outlined in Note 14.
Receivables acquired were 1.9million, all of which were settled subsequent to acquisition.
Revenuefrom IHL since acquisition was 9.1million.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 10.
Other income and expense Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Distributions from investment at fair value 0.2 Loss on revaluation of investment at fair value Note 16 0.3 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 19 0.3 0.2 Loss on disposal of other non-current assets held for sale Note 22 0.1 Other income and expense 0.4 0.3 11.
Finance income and finance expense Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Finance income Finance income on loans to external parties 0.2 0.2 Finance income on loans to joint ventures Note 34 0.3 2.7 Finance income on loans to other related parties Note 34 0.1 0.5 0.5 Finance income on loans to subsidiaries Note 34 0.4 Finance income 0.6 3.4 0.9 Finance expense Finance expense on secured bank loans 27.2 25.8 Interest capitalised to qualifying investment property under development 0.7 0.4 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.2 1.3 Accretion of fair value adjustments 0.8 0.9 Finance lease interest 0.8 0.8 Finance expense 29.3 28.4 Net finance expense 28.7 25.0 0.9 Interest is capitalised on the basis of the Groups weighted average cost of debt of 3.4 per cent 31August 2017: 3.0 per cent at the reporting date applied to the cost of property under development during the year.
Other finance expense Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Aviva profit share: Share of earnings for the year 0.2 Re-measurement of financial liability 1.3 Net change in fair value adjustments on substantial modification of borrowings 4.3 Write-off of unamortised debt issue costs 0.2 0.4 Other non-recurring finance expense 0.4 0.3 0.2 Other finance expense 0.6 6.5 0.2 Aviva profit share As part of the Aviva debt restructure in 2013, Aviva retained the right to participate in 50 per cent of the income generated by Grand Arcade Shopping Centre, Wigan after all costs, expenses and interest.
The profit share participation right was recognised as a financial liability, initially at fair value and was subsequently measured at amortised cost.
During the year ended 31August 2017 the debt was again restructured and, following a break cost payment of 5.5million to terminate the existing facility, the Group was released from the historic profit arrangement and, therefore, released the financial liability of 4.2million.
This resulted in a net charge of 1.3million to the income statement.
Aviva was entitled to 0.2million of the net income of Grand Arcade Shopping Centre up to date of termination.
Taxation Tax recognised in the income statement Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current income tax Income tax in respect of current year 0.8 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax On fair value of investment property 6.0 3.5 Reversal on disposal of Leopard portfolio 4.7 On derivative financial instruments 0.4 On nonUK losses 1.4 Tax charge credit for the year recognised in the income statement 1.1 3.9 0.1 There was no tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income during the year 31August 2017: Nil.
Reconciliation The tax rate for the year is lower than the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19 per cent 31August 2017: 19.58 per cent.
The differences areexplained below: Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Profit loss before tax 97.4 73.5 137.4 5.4 Profit loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax 18.5 14.4 26.1 1.1 Effect of: Revaluation of investment property 1.0 1.3 Gain on disposal of investment property 0.7 2.1 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 2.9 Gain on business combinations 0.9 Loss on revaluation of investment at fair value 0.1 Debt fair value adjustments 1.0 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 1.6 0.9 Income not subject to UK income tax 2.5 11.3 0.1 REIT exempt property rental profits 8.3 1.0 Group relief utilised 0.2 NonUK losses carried forward 1.3 Losses utilised 0.1 0.1 Unutilised losses carried forward 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.7 Impact of foreign tax 0.6 0.3 Expenses not deductible for tax 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.1 0.1 1.1 3.9 27.5 0.1 Intra-group transactions Settlement of loans 1.0 0.2 REIT exempt distributions 28.5 Tax charge credit for the year recognised in the income statement 1.1 3.9 0.1 As shown in the reconciliation above, the effective tax rate of the Group was 1.1 per cent for the year ended 31August 2018 31August 2017: 5.3 per cent.
The enactment of Finance No.
2 Act 2015 and Finance Act 2016 reduced the main rate of corporation tax to 19 per cent with effect 1 April 2017.
There will be a further reduction to 17 per cent from April 2020.
On 4 December 2013, the Group converted to a UK REIT.
As a result, the Group does not pay UK Corporation Tax on the profits and gains from qualifying rental business in the UK provided certain conditions are met.
Non-qualifying profits and gains of the Group continue to be subject to corporation tax.
The Directors intend the Group to continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future.
As a result, deferred tax is no longer recognised on temporary differences relating to the UK property rental business which is within the REIT structure.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 139 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 14.
Investment property UK UK UK 1 Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total Freehold Leasehold Group m m m m m m m Opening carrying value at 1 September 2017 344.1 507.5 239.3 404.0 1,494.9 1,239.7 255.2 Business combinations Note 9 161.7 115.4 277.1 104.9 172.2 Acquisition of property 20.9 20.9 20.9 Capitalised expenditure 0.9 4.0 3.2 6.0 14.1 4.0 10.1 Capitalised finance costs Note 11 0.7 0.7 0.7 Disposals through sale of subsidiaries 11.1 158.4 169.5 169.5 Disposals through the sale of property 15.3 6.0 21.3 20.3 1.0 Transfer to assets held for sale Note 22 23.1 23.1 23.1 Gain on revaluation of investment property prior to reclassification as held for sale 0.9 0.9 0.9 Transfer from assets held for sale Note 22 0.9 3.6 4.5 3.6 0.9 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property 24.6 26.1 6.2 6.1 10.8 16.0 5.2 Foreign exchange movement in foreign operations 12.0 12.0 11.3 0.7 IFRS carrying value at 31August 2018 504.6 485.4 364.1 243.9 1,598.0 1,165.8 432.2 Adjustments: Minimum payments under head leases Note 23 1.9 10.1 0.4 1.5 13.9 13.9 Tenant lease incentives Note 20 1.9 5.7 1.2 2.1 10.9 6.9 4.0 Market value of Group portfolio at 31August 2018 504.6 481.0 364.9 244.5 1,595.0 1,172.7 422.3 Joint ventures Share of joint venture investment property Note 17 11.3 14.1 25.4 25.4 Market value of total portfolio at 31August 2018 on a proportionately consolidated basis 515.9 481.0 364.9 258.6 1,620.4 1,198.1 422.3 UK UK UK 1 Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total Freehold Leasehold Group m m m m m m m Opening carrying value at 1 September 2016 407.3 541.9 229.6 217.6 1,396.4 1,052.2 344.2 Capitalised expenditure 1.0 3.5 2.9 12.2 19.6 7.0 12.6 Capitalised finance costs and debt issue costs 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.3 Acquisition of control of former joint venture Note 32 155.8 155.8 155.8 Disposals through the sale of property 42.6 2.1 44.7 42.9 1.8 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale Note 22 49.0 16.8 9.7 75.5 65.3 10.2 Head lease movements 0.5 2.2 0.1 1.6 71.6 70.0 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property 27.9 21.2 6.6 2.5 10.8 32.1 21.3 Foreign exchange movement in foreign operations 30.4 30.4 29.0 1.4 IFRS carrying value at 31August 2017 344.1 507.5 239.3 404.0 1,494.9 1,239.7 255.2 Adjustments: Non-current assets held for sale Note 22 9.2 12.9 3.7 25.8 19.3 6.5 Minimum payments under head leases Note 23 2.6 10.1 0.4 1.7 14.8 14.8 Tenant lease incentives Note 20 1.9 4.3 0.7 0.3 7.2 5.2 2.0 Market value of Group portfolio at 31August 2017 352.6 514.6 239.6 406.3 1,513.1 1,264.2 248.9 Joint ventures Share of joint venture investment property Note 17 11.6 14.0 25.6 25.6 Market value of total portfolio at 31August 2017 on a proportionately consolidated basis 364.2 514.6 239.6 420.3 1,538.7 1,289.8 248.9 1 Included within the Europe segment at 31August 2018 is property under development of 32.1million 31August 2017: 23.4million.
The tables above present both segmental and market value investment property information prepared on a proportionately consolidated basis.
Properties that have been classified as held for sale in the current year are also included so that the market value of the total portfolio can be determined.
This format is not a requirement of IFRS and is for informational purposes as it is used in reports presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
140 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Recognition Judgement may be required to determine whether a property qualifies as an investment property.
Investment property comprises a number of retail and commercial properties in the UK and Europe that are leased to unconnected third parties.
The UK Hotels portfolio is held for capital appreciation and to earn rental income.
Apart from the five Travelodge branded hotels, the hotel portfolio has been let to RBH to separately manage the operating business of each hotel for a fixed rent.
The rent is subject to annual review which takes into account the forecast EBITDA.
As detailed in the key judgements and estimates in Note 2, aside from the Groups associate interest in RBH and the receipt of rental and dividend income, RDI is not involved in the hotel management business and there are limited transactions between RDI and RBH.
As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to classify the hotel portfolio as investment property in line with IAS 40.
On acquisition of control of the IHL group, the operating businesses of five of the nine hotels acquired was managed internally, such that these hotels were considered owner-occupied prior to acquisition by RDI.
With effect from 1 September 2017, RDI restructured the operating business model of these hotels to a property rental business model by disposing of the operating businesses to RBH to manage in the same manner as Groups existing hotel portfolio.
The Group therefore considers classification as investment property on initial recognition to be appropriate.
Valuation The carrying value of investment property is its market value as determined by appropriately qualified independent valuers and adjusted for minimum payments under head leases and tenant lease incentives.
Valuations are based on what is determined to be the highest and best use.
When considering the highest and best use a valuer will consider, on a property by property basis, and in limited circumstances in aggregation with other assets, its actual and potential uses which are physically, legally and financially viable.
Where the highest and best use differs from the existing use, the valuer will consider the cost and the likelihood of achieving and implementing this change to determine an appropriate valuation.
Fees paid to valuers are based on arms-length fixed price contracts.
The fair value of the Groups property for the period ended 31August 2018 was assessed by independent and appropriately qualified valuers in accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors RICS standards and IFRS 13.
The valuations are performed by BNP Paribas Real Estate for the UK Shopping Centres 2017:Strutt & Parker LLP and the Esplanade and by Savills for remainder of the Groups portfolio.
The valuations are reviewed internally by senior management andpresented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The presentation includes discussion around the assumptions used by the external valuers, as well as a review of theresulting valuations.
Valuation inputs The fair value of the property portfolio has been determined using either a discounted cash flow or a yield capitalisation technique, whereby contracted and market rental values are capitalised at a market rate, having regard for: tenant covenant strength: lease maturity: quality and location of the property: occupancy: nonrecoverable costs and head rents.
The resulting valuations are crosschecked against the net initial yield and the fair market values per square foot of comparable recent market transactions.
The valuation techniques are consistent with IFRS 13 and use significant unobservable inputs.
Valuation techniques can change at each valuation round depending on prevailing market conditions, market transactions and the propertys highest and best use at the reporting date.
Where there is a lack of market comparable transactions, the level of estimation and judgement increases on account of less observable inputs and the degree of variability could be expected to widen.
Thisisofparticular relevance to the Groups UK Retail sector where there is continued weakening of investor sentiment, retail failures and ongoing structural changeinconsumer behaviour.
The Group considers all its investment property to fall within Level 3, as defined by IFRS 13 refer to Note 33.
There has been no transfer of property within the fairvalue hierarchy during the year.
The key unobservable valuation inputs are set out in the tables below: Weighted Weighted Average average average Average Market Lettable rent lease net initial Net initial market rent value area per sqm length yield yield per sqm 31August 2018 m sqm yrs % % range UK Commercial 504.6 167,862 175.2 5.4 5.1 3.2 13.5 182.3 UK Retail 481.0 223,826 179.1 8.5 6.4 5.0 9.2 170.2 UK Hotels 364.9 77,391 336.0 18.2 5.9 4.6 7.6 336.0 Europe 244.5 87,184 67.3 4.9 4.3 3.4 7.8 162.9 Joint ventures UK Commercial 11.3 2,752 327.0 3.7 7.1 7.1 327.0 Europe 14.1 10,666 93.8 7.1 5.8 5.6 6.0 93.8 Total 1,620.4 569,681 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 141 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 14.
Investment property continued Valuation inputs continued Weighted Weighted Average average average Average Market Lettable rent lease net initial Net initial market rent value area per sqm length yield yield per sqm 31August 2017 m sqm yrs % % range UK Commercial 352.6 181,670 123.2 5.2 5.1 3.2 30.6 124.4 UK Retail 514.6 239,350 172.2 8.4 6.3 4.8 8.6 168.0 UK Hotels 239.6 41,323 367.8 9.3 5.9 4.2 7.6 392.0 Europe 406.3 226,241 117.4 6.4 5.4 3.7 21.9 118.0 Joint ventures UK Commercial 11.6 2,752 327.0 4.7 6.9 6.9 290.7 Europe 14.0 10,357 96.5 7.9 5.9 5.7 6.1 96.5 Total 1,538.7 701,693 There are interrelationships between the unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions: an increase in more than one input could impact onthevaluation.
Valuation sensitivities The tables below set out the financial impact of positive and negative shifts in the two primary unobservable inputs on the valuation of the Groups controlled propertysegments: Impact on valuation Impact on valuation Market 5% 5% 25bps 25bps 31August 2018 value ERV ERV yield yield Group m m m m m UK Commercial 504.6 16.5 17.0 14.9 13.8 UK Retail 481.0 16.9 16.6 18.8 17.6 UK Hotels 364.9 10.2 9.7 12.7 11.0 Europe 244.5 22.5 22.9 26.4 24.1 Total 1,595.0 66.1 66.2 72.8 66.5 An increase in the current or future rental stream would increase capital value while a higher yield or discount rate would decrease capital value.
There are interrelationships between these unobservable inputs however as they are partially determined by market conditions.
The valuation movement in any one period depends on the balance between them.
The Directors have further considered the impact of a significant valuation decline of up to 20 per cent impacting the Groups UK Shopping Centres, brought about by continued negative sentiment and tenant failure, the results of which are set out in the Groups viability statement on page 22.
Based on the 31August 2018 market value of this portfolio, a 20 per cent reduction in valuation would result in a fair value loss to the income statement of 58.2million.
Acquisitions During the year ended 31August 2018, the Group acquired four serviced offices and nine hotels for 161.7million and 115.4million respectively, by way of business combinations.
Refer to Note 9 for further information.
The Group also acquired a commercial property during the year for 20.9million, including acquisition costs, inKingston, south west London.
Disposals The Group disposed of two assets from the UK Commercial portfolio and two assets from the European portfolio part of the Leopard Portfolio disposal during the year by way of assets sales, realising a net gain after disposal costs of 1.5million 31August 2017: 9.2million.
As at 31August 2018, net proceeds of 22.7million had been received by the Group 31August 2017: 54.9million after adjusting for additional prior year disposal costs.
Sales Disposal Net sales Carrying Gain on proceeds costs proceeds value disposal 31August 2018 m m m m m The Crescent Centre, Bristol 15.0 0.2 14.8 14.1 0.7 Bunde & Uelzen, Germany Leopard asset disposal 5.9 5.9 6.0 0.1 Heynesfield House, Sparkhill 2.1 2.1 1.2 0.9 Disposals during the year 23.0 0.2 22.8 21.3 1.5 Two further sales, namely of Lochside View, Edinburgh and the remaining properties in the Leopard Portfolio were structured as corporate sales.
Refer to Note 8 for further information.
142 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Sales Disposal Tenant Net sales Carrying Gain on proceeds costs incentives proceeds value disposal 31August 2017 m m m m m m 201 Deansgate, Manchester 29.2 0.3 28.9 25.5 3.4 Exchange House, Watford 13.3 0.2 13.1 11.8 1.3 1A Parliament Square, Edinburgh 4.0 4.0 3.5 0.5 Delta 900, Swindon 3.6 0.1 1.0 2.5 1.8 0.7 Single unit Priory Retail Park, Merton 5.5 0.1 5.4 2.1 3.3 Disposals during the year 55.6 0.7 1.0 53.9 44.7 9.2 Committed expenditure The Group was contractually committed to expenditure of 8.3million for the future development and enhancement of investment property at 31August 2018 31August 2017: 16.5million.
Commercial property price risk The Board draws attention to the risks associated with commercial property investments.
Although over the long term property is considered a low risk asset, investors must be aware that significant short and medium term risk factors are inherent in the asset class.
Investments in property are relatively illiquid and usually more difficult to realise than listed equities or bonds and this restricts the Groups ability to realise value in cash in the short term.
Investment in subsidiaries 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Company m m Opening balance at 1 September 539.9 539.0 Additions 121.3 103.8 Redemptions 4.1 102.9 Carrying value at 31 August 657.1 539.9 An impairment assessment of the Companys investment in subsidiary undertakings is performed annually with reference to the EPRA net assets of the Group.
AstheEPRA net assets of the Group were 815.0million at the reporting date, no impairment was considered necessary 31August 2017: Nil.
Investment at fair value through profit or loss The following table details the movement in the Groups investment in International Hotel Properties Limited, designated at fair value through profit or loss: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Opening balance at 1 September 8.5 7.9 Transfer to investment in associate Note 18 8.5 Additions 0.9 Loss on revaluation of investment at fair value 0.3 Closing balance 8.5 As at 31August 2017, the Group held 9.7million of IHLs 56.0million total issued shares at a fair value of 8.5million and the Directors determined that the classification of IHL as an investment at fair value through profit or loss was appropriate.
On 15 September 2017, the Group obtained consent from the shareholders of IHL to acquire 16.4million shares 29.3 per cent from minority shareholders via a scheme of arrangement.
From this date, the Group was considered to have significant influence over IHL and the investment was reclassified as an investment in associate Note 18.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 143 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 17.
Investment in and loans to joint ventures 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Investment in joint ventures Opening balance at 1 September 1.9 5.8 Additional investment in joint ventures 0.1 Acquisition of control of former joint venture 1.1 Loss on disposal of joint venture interests 0.7 Share of posttax loss from joint ventures 2.3 Foreign currency translation 0.1 0.2 Closing balance 1.9 1.9 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Loans to joint ventures Opening balance at 1 September 4.3 52.9 Increase in loans to joint ventures 1.0 Acquisition of control of former joint venture 36.6 Disposal of loan to joint venture 12.5 Repayment of loans by joint ventures 0.1 0.7 Reversal of impairment of loans to joint ventures 0.1 0.4 Foreign currency translation 0.1 0.8 Closing balance 5.2 4.3 Carrying value of interests in joint ventures 7.1 6.2 Joint venture interests During the year ended 31August 2018, the Groups material investments in joint ventures which are presented in the tables of this note included the followinginterests: 52 per cent interest in RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which ultimately owns properties in Waldkraiburg, Huckelhoven and Kaiserslautern, Germany.
The Group acquired an additional 1.5 per cent interest in the joint venture in November 2017 following the acquisition of a noncontrolling interest.
Notwithstanding the economic shareholding, the contractual terms provide for joint control and so the Company does not control theentity: 49 per cent interest in Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which owned Governmentlet properties in Dresden, Berlin, Stuttgart and Cologne, Germany.
The joint venture disposed of its propertyowning subsidiaries on 1 January 2017 as detailed below: and 50 per cent interest in TwentySix The Esplanade Limited, a joint venture with Rimstone Limited, which owns an office building in St. Helier, Jersey.
The Groups interest in joint venture entities is in the form of: an interest in the share capital of the joint venture companies: and loans advanced to the joint venture entities.
RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. and Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. both have accounting year ends of 31 December which differ from the Group so as to align with the year end of the joint venture partner, Menora Mivtachim.
Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. On 1 January 2017, Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. exchanged on the sale of its four German office assets.
The disposal was structured as a share sale of the joint ventures property-owning subsidiaries.
The joint venture recognised a net loss on disposal of these subsidiaries of 1.4million Group share: 0.7million after settlement of loans with nominal carrying values with the joint venture partners.
The Group, however, recognised a net gain on disposal of 4.9million, including cumulative foreign currency translation of 2.2million for the year ended 31August 2017.
During the year ended 31 August 2018, the Group additional transaction costs of 0.1million which have been presented as loss on sale of joint venture.
Leopard Portfolio The Group originally held a 50 per cent interest in the Leopard Portfolio, a joint venture with Redefine Properties Limited RPL, the Companys largest shareholder.
This portfolio included 66 retail properties in Germany comprising a mix of standalone supermarkets, foodstore anchored retail parks and cash and carry stores.
During the 2017 financial year, the Group acquired 88 per cent of RPLs equity interest and all RPLs shareholder loan interests in the Leopard Portfolio.
The Leopard Portfolio became a controlled subsidiary group with economic effect from 1 March 2017.
The Groups joint venture equity and loan interests were derecognised on loss of joint control and the acquisition of control.
See Note 32 for further details.
The Group has subsequently sold the majority of its interest in the Leopard Portfolio as detailed in Note 8.
144 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Interest in joint ventures not recognised Under the equity method, the Esplanade was carried at Nil in the Groups financial statements at 1 September 2017 and remains at Nil at 31August 2018.
Thisinvestment is in a net liability position with the cumulative losses to date exceeding or equalling the cost of the Groups investment.
The Group has ceased to recognise further losses beyond the original cost of this joint venture and loans advanced have been fully impaired in line with IAS 28.
At 31August 2018, cumulative losses equalled the Groups net investment in the joint venture 31August 2017: exceeded by 0.7million.
On a proportionate basis and for segmental reporting purposes, the Groups interest in the Esplanade is recognised linebyline.
Fair value disclosures The fair value of the Groups loans to joint venture at 31August 2018 was 5.3million and the Group considers that this financial asset falls within Level 3 as defined byIFRS 13 refer to Note 33.
Summarised financial information The summarised financial information of the Groups joint ventures, in addition to reconciliations to the amounts presented in the financial statements, aresetoutbelow: Wichford RI Menora Joint VBG German venture Holding Holdings partners Proportionate S.. r. l. S.. r. l. Esplanade Total interest total 31August 2018 m m m m m m Percentage ownership interest 49% 52% 50% Summarised income statement Rental income 1.8 1.7 3.5 1.7 1.8 Rental expense 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 Net rental income 1.5 1.7 3.2 1.6 1.6 1 Administrative costs and other fees 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 Net operating expense income 0.2 1.3 1.7 2.8 1.4 1.4 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property 0.2 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 Finance expense on loans from joint venture partners 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Finance expense 0.3 1.1 1.4 0.7 0.7 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 1.4 1.4 0.7 0.7 Loss profit before tax 0.2 0.6 1.4 1.8 0.9 0.9 Taxation 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 Loss profit and total comprehensive expense income 0.2 0.2 1.4 1.4 0.7 0.7 Reconciliation to IFRS: Elimination of non-controlling and joint venture partners interests 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.7 0.7 Movement in losses restricted in joint ventures 0.7 0.7 0.7 Group share of joint venture results 0.1 0.1 Summarised balance sheet Investment property 27.2 22.5 49.7 24.3 25.4 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.2 1.0 0.5 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.3 0.4 1.5 0.7 0.8 Total assets 0.8 28.3 23.1 52.2 25.5 26.7 External borrowings 13.7 17.0 30.7 15.1 15.6 Loans from joint venture partners 9.4 6.6 16.0 7.8 8.2 Derivative financial instruments 5.5 5.5 2.7 2.8 Deferred tax 1.2 1.2 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 0.7 0.6 1.3 0.5 0.8 Total liabilities 25.0 29.7 54.7 26.7 28.0 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 Net assets liabilities 0.8 3.0 6.6 2.8 1.4 1.4 Reconciliation to IFRS: Elimination of joint venture partners interests 0.4 1.5 3.3 1.4 1.4 2 Loan to joint ventures 5.2 5.2 5.2 3 Cumulative losses restricted 3.3 3.3 3.3 Carrying value of interests in joint ventures 0.4 6.7 7.1 7.1 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 145 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 17.
Investment in and loans to joint ventures continued Wichford RI Menora Joint VBG German venture Holding Holdings Leopard partners Proportionate S.. r. l. S.. r. l. Portfolio Esplanade Total interest total 31August 2017 m m m m m m m Percentage ownership interest 49% 50.5% 50% 50% Summarised income statement Rental income 2.4 1.8 6.0 1.7 11.9 6.0 5.9 Rental expense 0.3 0.1 0.8 1.2 0.6 0.6 Net rental income 2.1 1.7 5.2 1.7 10.7 5.4 5.3 1 Administrative costs and other fees 4.0 0.2 0.5 4.7 2.4 2.3 Net operating expense income 1.9 1.5 4.7 1.7 6.0 3.0 3.0 Loss on revaluation of investment property 0.9 0.6 0.2 1.7 0.8 0.9 Loss on sale of subsidiaries 1.4 1.4 0.7 0.7 Finance expense on loans from joint venture partners 1.6 0.5 3.0 5.1 2.4 2.7 Finance expense 0.5 0.5 0.6 1.2 2.8 1.5 1.3 Other finance income 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.1 1.8 2.3 1.2 1.1 Loss profit before tax 5.2 0.4 0.6 2.1 2.1 0.9 1.2 Taxation 0.8 0.2 0.3 0.3 1.2 0.7 0.5 Loss profit and total comprehensive expense income 6.0 0.6 0.3 1.8 3.3 1.6 1.7 Reconciliation to IFRS: Elimination of non-controlling and joint venture partners interests 3.0 0.3 0.2 0.9 1.6 1.6 Movement in losses restricted in joint ventures 0.9 0.9 0.9 Group share of joint venture results 3.0 0.3 0.1 2.6 2.6 Presented in Group income statement as: Reversal of impairment of loans to joint ventures 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.4 4 Loss on disposal of joint venture interests 0.7 0.7 0.7 Share of post-tax loss from joint ventures 2.3 2.3 2.3 Summarised balance sheet Investment property 27.8 23.2 51.0 25.4 25.6 Trade and other receivables 0.6 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.4 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.2 0.5 1.2 0.6 0.6 Total assets 1.1 28.1 23.8 53.0 26.4 26.6 External borrowings 14.8 17.6 32.4 16.1 16.3 Loans from joint venture partners 8.2 6.6 14.8 7.2 7.6 Derivative financial instruments 6.9 6.9 3.4 3.5 Deferred tax 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables 1.0 0.7 1.7 0.9 0.8 Total liabilities 24.8 31.8 56.6 28.0 28.6 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 Net assets liabilities 1.1 3.0 8.0 3.9 1.8 2.1 Reconciliation to IFRS: Elimination of joint venture partners interests 0.6 1.6 4.0 1.8 1.8 2 Loan to joint ventures 4.3 4.3 4.3 3 Cumulative losses restricted 4.0 4.0 4.0 Carrying value of interests in joint ventures 0.5 5.7 6.2 6.2 1 Included within administrative costs and other fees of Wichford VBG at 31August 2017 is the performance fee expense of 3.4million, payable to the Group as investment manager, on disposal of the property portfolio.
2 Loans to joint ventures include the opening balance, any advances or repayments and foreign currency movements during the year.
3 Cumulative losses restricted represent the Groups share of losses in the Esplanade which exceed the cost of the Groups investment.
As a result, the carrying value of the investment is Nil in accordance with the requirements of IAS 28.
4 Presented within Net gain on sale of joint venture interests in the consolidated income statement.
Investment in associate 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Associate investment in IHL and RBH Opening balance at 1 September 9.4 10.2 IHL Transfer from investment at fair value through profit or loss Note 16 8.5 Additions 5.0 Reclassification as investment in subsidiary Note 9 13.5 RBH Share of post-tax profit from associate 0.3 0.9 Distributions from associate Note 34 0.6 1.2 Net impairment of investment in associate 0.5 Carrying value of net investment in associate 9.1 9.4 IHL On 15 September 2017, the Group obtained consent from the shareholders of IHL to acquire 16.4million shares 29.3 per cent being all of the non-controlling interest in IHL via a scheme of arrangement.
From this date, the Group was considered to have significant influence over IHL and the investment was reclassified from an investment at fair value through profit or loss Note 16.
On 26 October 2017, the Group acquired an additional 5.0million shares in IHL for 5.0million from Redefine Properties and increased its interest to 26.2 per cent.
The additional interests acquired allowed RDI to continue to participate in the financial and operating decisions ofIHL, but not to direct those decisions, and therefore the cumulative investment of 13.5million continued to be classified as an associate.
On 13 November 2017, the scheme of arrangement completed, and the Group acquired 16.4million shares from scheme participants and 1.9million shares from Redefine Properties, increasing RDIs interest in IHL from 26.2 to 58.9 per cent increased further to 74.1 per cent.
The Group could, from this date, direct the operating and financial decisions of IHL and was exposed to the variable returns of the property group as a result.
RDI had acquired control of IHL from this date and this is considered the acquisition date for the purposes of IFRS 3.
The fair value of the Groups associate interest in IHL of 13.5million was, therefore, included in the determination of net gain on bargain purchase of IHL as a stepped acquisition.
RBH The summarised financial information of RBH is set out below.
Represented 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 m m Summarised income statement Revenue 78.3 57.9 Other income 1.6 2.5 Expenses 78.1 54.9 Profit from operations 1.8 5.5 Taxation 0.7 1.3 Profit for the year 1.1 4.2 Elimination of third party interest 0.8 3.1 Group share of results 0.3 1.1 Classified as: Share of post-tax profit 0.3 0.9 Impairment adjustment 0.2 The comparative summarised income statement has been represented to gross up the trading income and expense of the IHL and RHHL hotels operating businesses inline with current year presentation.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 147 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 18.
Investment in associate continued RBH continued 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 m m Summarised balance sheet Noncurrent assets 4.1 4.7 Intangible asset 28.1 28.1 Trade and other receivables 9.3 6.3 Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 3.7 Total assets 45.4 42.8 Current liabilities 13.6 8.7 Total liabilities 13.6 8.7 Net assets 31.8 34.1 Capital contribution adjustment 1.1 Adjusted net assets 32.9 34.1 Elimination of third party interest 24.6 25.5 Share of net assets attributable to the Group 8.3 8.6 Recoverable amount of excess net investment in associate 0.8 0.8 Carrying value of the Groups net investment in associate 9.1 9.4 During the year ended 31August 2017, the Groups cumulative investment in RBH increased from 25.3 to 30.4 per cent.
On 7 February 2017, the Group acquired an additional 5.1 per cent interest in RBH for 1.3million which was classified as held for sale on initial recognition as the shares were acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent resale.
The shares were subsequently sold on 14 February 2018.
Refer to Note 22 for further information.
The table above includes movements in the Groups existing 25.3 per cent interest in RBH only.
Distributions from the associate for the year ended 31August 2018 were 0.6million 31August 2017 of 1.2million, 0.7million in total including investment in associate held for sale.
Following an internal impairment assessment and on receipt of an independent valuation of RBH, the Directors considered that the recoverable amount of the Groups net investment in RBH was 9.4million at 31August 2017.
The independent valuation was determined on a value-in-use basis but was also cross-checked to market comparables.
Using a discount rate range of 11.5 12.5 per cent, an enterprise value range of 33.5 40.5million was attributed to the investment, with a mid-point valuation of 37.0million Group share: 9.4million.
This resulted in an impairment charge of 0.5million.
At 31August 2018, the Directors considered this valuation still to be an appropriate reference for assessing the carrying value of RBH and any impairment indicators.
There is no objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date.
Other non-current assets Intangible assets 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Opening balance at 1 September 1.1 1.3 Amortisation 0.3 0.2 Closing balance 0.8 1.1 Intangible assets were recognised on the acquisition of Redefine International Management Holdings Limited Group RIMH and represented the fair value of the advisory agreements acquired by the Group.
The value attributed to the contracts between RIMH and third parties, including joint ventures of the Group and the non-controlling interests, was 1.9million.
The intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the contracts, which have an average life of eight years, and was just over three years at 31August 2018.
Property, plant and equipment 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Opening balance at 1 September 0.1 0.1 Additions 0.6 Depreciation 0.2 Closing balance 0.5 0.1 Total other non-current assets at 31 August 1.3 1.2 148 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 20.
Receivables Group Company 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Non-current 1 Tenant lease incentives 8.1 5.8 1 Tenant lease incentives to related parties Note 34 0.4 Loans to external parties 1.6 1.6 Letting costs 1.1 1.0 Total non-current other receivables 11.2 8.4 Current Rent receivable 1.0 1.1 1 Tenant lease incentives 1.6 1.0 1 Tenant lease incentives to related parties Note 34 0.8 0.4 Other amounts receivable from related parties Note 34 0.3 0.5 Amounts receivable from subsidiaries Note 34 3.9 87.1 Consideration outstanding on disposal of investment property held for sale 6.6 Loans to external parties 2.2 Prepayments and accrued income 2.5 2.1 0.4 0.4 Other receivables 0.9 1.6 0.4 0.6 Total current trade and other receivables 7.1 15.5 4.7 88.1 Total receivables 18.3 23.9 4.7 88.1 1 Total tenant lease incentives of 10.9million 31August 2017: 7.2million have been deducted from investment property in determining fair value at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Unrestricted cash and cash equivalents 58.3 52.1 16.2 7.6 Restricted cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 59.0 52.8 16.2 7.6 At 31August 2018, cash and cash equivalents to which the Group did not have instant access amounted to 0.7million 31August 2017: 0.7million.
The restricted cash is held on deposit in Germany under an hereditable building right agreement for the property at Ingolstadt.
The Groups share of total cash and cash equivalents, including its share of joint venture cash, at 31August 2018 was 59.8million 31August 2017: 53.4million, witha further 75.0million of undrawn committed facilities available 31August 2017: 10.0million.
Non-current assets held for sale UK UK UK Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total Group m m m m m Investment property Opening balance at 1 September 2017 9.2 12.9 3.7 25.8 1 Transfers from investment property Note 14 23.1 23.1 Transfers to investment property Note 14 0.9 3.6 4.5 Disposals through the sale of subsidiary 12.9 12.9 Disposals through the sale of property 31.4 31.4 Foreign currency translation 0.1 0.1 Investment in associate Opening balance at 1 September 2017 1.5 1.5 Distributions from associate Note 34 0.1 0.1 Disposals 1.4 1.4 Closing balance at 31August 2018 1 Investment property was revalued before being reclassified as held for sale in line with IFRS 5.
This resulted in a gain in the income statement of 0.9million.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 149 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 22.
Non-current assets held for sale continued UK UK UK Commercial Retail Hotels Europe Total Group m m m m m Investment property Opening balance at 1 September 2016 Transfers from investment property Note 14 49.0 16.8 9.7 75.5 Disposals 39.8 6.0 45.8 Loss on revaluation 3.9 3.9 9.2 12.9 3.7 25.8 Investment in associate Opening balance at 1 September 2016 Additions 1.3 1.3 Share of post-tax profit 0.2 0.2 1.5 1.5 Closing balance at 31August 2017 9.2 12.9 1.5 3.7 27.3 All non-current assets held for sale fall within Level 3, as defined by IFRS 13 refer to Note 33.
Accordingly, there has been no transfer within the fair value hierarchy over the year.
No property assets have been classified as held for sale at the reporting date as the criteria outlined in IFRS 5 have not been met.
This resulted in two properties, withacarrying value of 4.5million, being transferred back to investment property.
Investment property held for sale As at 31August 2017, the Group carried six properties as held for sale.
During the year ended 31August 2018, one property was reclassified as held for sale, while two were transferred back to investment property Note 14.
The Group disposed of the five held for sale assets during the year, one from the UK Retail portfolio and four from the UK Commercial portfolio.
One of the sales, namely of Paragon Square, Hull was structured as a corporate sale.
Refer to Note 8 for further details.
From the four asset sales, the Group realised a net gain, after disposal costs, of 1.8million 31August 2017: 1.5million.
As at 31August 2018, net proceeds of 39.6million had been received by the Group which included the proceeds from a prior year sale refer to Note 20 31August 2017: 40.9million.
Sales Disposal Fair value Net sales Carrying Loss gain proceeds costs adjustments proceeds value on disposal 31August 2018 m m m m m m Duchess Place, Edgbaston 1.6 0.7 2.3 2.3 West Point and Centre Court, Plymouth 2.7 0.1 2.6 2.7 0.1 City Point, Leeds 26.1 0.6 0.5 25.0 23.1 1.9 Severalls, Colchester 3.4 0.1 3.3 3.3 Disposals during the year 33.8 0.8 0.2 33.2 31.4 1.8 Sales Disposal Net sales Carrying Gain loss proceeds costs proceeds value on disposal 31August 2017 m m m m m The Observatory, Chatham 4.0 0.1 3.9 3.6 0.3 Woodlands, Bedford 11.0 0.3 10.7 11.5 0.8 London Road, High Wycombe 26.1 26.1 24.7 1.4 Brckmuhl, Germany 6.6 6.6 6.0 0.6 Disposals during the year 47.7 0.4 47.3 45.8 1.5 Investment in associate held for sale On 7 February 2017, as part of the settlement of the loan outstanding from 4C UK Investments Limited 4C Investments, the Company acquired 659 shares in RBH for an attributed value of 1,942 per share refer to Note 34.
This represented 5.1 per cent of the issued share capital of RBH.
As part of the settlement agreement, 4CInvestments had the right to buy back the shares at the transfer price of 1.3million at any time on or before 31 January 2018 subject to written notice.
This right was extended by the Group and 4C Investments served notice and formally reacquired the shares on 14 February 2018.
As the carrying value of the investment was 1.4million, the Group has recognised a loss of 0.1million in the income statement on disposal.
Borrowings, including finance leases 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Non-current Bank loans 787.9 822.8 Less: unamortised debt issue costs 2.7 3.9 Less: fair value adjustments 14.1 14.7 771.1 804.2 Other external loans 0.8 Finance leases 13.1 13.9 Total non-current borrowings, including finance leases 784.2 818.9 Current Bank loans 4.7 3.1 Less: unamortised debt issue costs 0.2 0.3 Less: fair value adjustments 0.6 0.8 3.9 2.0 Other external loans 0.7 Finance leases 0.8 0.9 Total current borrowings, including finance leases 5.4 2.9 Total borrowings, including finance leases 789.6 821.8 Analysis of movement in net borrowings, including finance leases The table below presents the movements in net borrowings for the year ended 31August 2018, split between cash and non-cash movements and as required by IAS 7.
Cash and cash Noncurrent Current equivalents Net debt Group m m m m Opening balance at 1 September 2017 818.9 2.9 52.8 769.0 Financing activities cash Borrowings drawn 10.0 10.0 Borrowings repaid 87.4 4.5 91.9 77.4 4.5 81.9 Financing activities non-cash Debt release on disposal of subsidiaries Note 8 73.1 73.1 Debt assumed on business combinations Note 9 127.9 127.9 Debt issue costs movements 1.4 1.4 Accretion of fair value adjustments 0.8 0.8 Finance lease movements 0.8 0.8 Reclassification between current and non-current 7.0 7.0 49.2 7.0 56.2 Other net cash movements 0.2 87.1 88.3 Foreign currency translation 6.3 1.0 6.3 Closing balance as at 31August 2018 784.2 5.4 59.0 730.6 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 151 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 23.
Borrowings, including finance leases continued Bank loans 31August 2018 31August 2017 Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair value value value value value value Group m m m m m m Non-current liabilities Bank loans 787.9 787.9 787.9 822.8 822.8 822.8 Less: unamortised debt issue costs 2.7 3.9 Less: fair value adjustments 14.1 10.3 14.7 10.6 Total non-current bank loans 771.1 787.9 777.6 804.2 822.8 812.2 Current liabilities Bank loans 4.7 4.7 4.7 3.1 3.1 3.1 Less: unamortised debt issue costs 0.2 0.3 Less: fair value adjustments 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.1 Total current bank loans 3.9 4.7 4.1 2.0 3.1 3.2 Total IFRS bank loans 775.0 792.6 781.7 806.2 825.9 815.4 Joint ventures Share of joint ventures bank loans Note 17 15.6 15.6 15.6 16.3 16.3 16.3 Total bank loans on a proportionately consolidated basis 790.6 808.2 797.3 822.5 842.2 831.7 Cash and cash equivalents 59.0 59.0 59.0 52.8 52.8 52.8 Share of joint venture cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.6 Net debt on a proportionately consolidated basis 730.8 748.4 737.5 769.1 788.8 778.3 The table above presents bank loans, cash and cash equivalents and net debt information prepared on a proportionately consolidated basis.
This format is not a requirement ofIFRS and is presented for informational purposes only as it is used in reports presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
At 31August 2018, the Groups bank loans are secured over investment property of 1,525.4million 31August 2017: 1,484.1million and are carried at amortised cost.
On a proportionately consolidated basis, bank loans are secured over investment property of 1,550.8million 31August 2017: 1,509.7million.
The Groups nominal value of drawn debt on a proportionately consolidated basis has decreased during the year to 808.2million 31August 2017: 842.2million following scheduled amortisation payments, principal repayments following disposals, some minor refinancings and most significantly, the major transactions the Group has completed during the year.
These include: the acquisition of the IHL portfolio in November 2017.
The Group assumed a number of facilities with Santander, totalling 54.4million.
The facilities have a range of rates from 2.7 to 3.4 per cent and are due to mature between July 2020 and December 2021.
2.0million of the IHL debt was prepaid in June 2018 to strengthen the related covenant: in December 2017, the disposal of the majority of the Groups interest in the Leopard Portfolio.
As part of the transaction, all associated bank debt with Berlin Hyp and BayernLB was settled.
The Berlin Hyp debt was held at rates of 1.3 to 2.9 per cent: in January 2018, the assumption of a further 73.5million of bank debt on completion of the LSO transaction.
The balance is held across facilities with Barclays and Deutsche Bank, due to mature in December 2019 and August 2022 respectively.
The rates range from 2.6 to 2.9 per cent and there are derivative caps in place ranging from 3.1 to 4.1 per cent: in September 2017, following the Brckmuhl disposal from the Premium Portfolio, 3.7million of sales proceeds were repaid against the loan held with MunchenerHyp: in September and October 2017, the Group also finalised extensions for the BayernLB facilities secured against one property in the RI Menora joint venture June 2024 and both German OBI properties December 2022.
These included prepayments of 0.2million Group share and 0.1million respectively and under the amended agreements, the loans will carry fixed interest rates of 1.59 to 1.72 per cent: in June 2018, the outstanding HSBC debt of 3.5million secured against the road-side garage portfolio was repaid in full: and during the year, the Group also applied a net of 65.0million of available cash against the AUK revolving credit facility RCF.
The maturity of Group bank loans, gross of unamortised debt issue costs and fair value adjustments is as follows: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 4.7 3.1 Between one year and five years 585.5 620.5 More than five years 202.4 202.3 792.6 825.9 Certain borrowing agreements contain financial and other covenants that, if contravened, could alter the repayment profile.
152 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Fair value disclosures The nominal value of floating rate borrowings is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings at the reporting date has been calculated by discounting cash flows under the relevant agreements at a market interest rate for similar debt instruments.
The market interest rate has been determined having regard to the term, duration and security arrangements of the relevant loan and an estimation of the current rates charged in the market for similar instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
The Group considers that all bank loans, including the Groups share of joint venture bank loans, fall within Level 3 as defined by IFRS 13 refer to Note 33.
During 2017 the Aviva debt was restructured which was considered a significant modification to the existing loan.
The existing loan facility was extinguished and the debt recognised at fair value on refinancing in April 2017.
The refinancing resulted in a fair value adjustment of 14.3million as the refinanced debt was considered to have been negotiated on off-market terms.
At 31August 2017, the carrying value of this debt was classified by the Group as Level 2 as a result of recent refinancing activity.
As the fair value of the restructured debt is no longer determined with reference to observable inputs at 31August 2018, it has been transferred to Level 3.
Finance leases Obligations under finance leases at the reporting date are as follows: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 m m Minimum lease payments under finance lease obligations: Not later than one year 0.8 0.9 Later than one year not later than five years 3.2 3.3 Later than five years 109.6 113.9 113.6 118.1 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 99.7 103.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 13.9 14.8 Present value of minimum finance lease obligations: Not later than one year 0.8 0.9 Later than one year not later than five years 2.6 2.8 Later than five years 10.5 11.1 Present value of minimum lease payments 13.9 14.8 Finance lease obligations relate to the Groups leasehold interests in investment property.
Finance leases are effectively secured obligations, as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The discount rates used in calculating the present value of the minimum lease payments range from 1.8 to 6.3 per cent.
The fair value of the finance lease obligations at 31August 2018 was 15.9million and the Group considers that these liabilities fall within Level 3 as defined by IFRS 13 refer to Note 33.
Operating leases The undiscounted future minimum lease obligations under noncancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date are as follows: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 m m Investment property Not later than one year 1.4 Later than one year not later than five years 5.5 Later than five years 505.7 512.6 Head office Not later than one year 0.3 0.1 Later than one year not later than five years 0.9 1.2 0.1 Total minimum operating lease payments 513.8 0.1 The Group acquired operating leasehold interests in investment property through business combinations during the year ended 31August 2018.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 153 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 24.
Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to manage the risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Interest rate swaps and caps are employed by the Group to manage the interest rate profile of financial liabilities.
In accordance with the terms of the majority of bank debt arrangements, the Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert the rates from floating to fixed which has eliminated exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Likewise, interest rate caps are used to limit the downside exposure to significant changes to the low interest rates currently prevailing in the market.
It is the Groups policy that no economic trading in derivatives is undertaken.
31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Non-current derivative assets Interest rate cap 0.4 0.2 Interest rate swaps 0.7 0.2 1.1 0.4 Non-current derivative liabilities Interest rate swaps 2.9 7.8 2.9 7.8 Net derivative financial instruments 1.8 7.4 The Group holds interest rate cap assets at rates of 1.0 to 3.0 per cent, maturing between December 2019 and November 2021.
The interest rate swap assets are held at a rate of 1.1 per cent, maturing from April 2021 to January 2022.
The interest rate swap liabilities have maturities from January 2019 to January 2022 and the rates range from 0.4 to 2.0 per cent.
Deferred tax The table below presents the recognised deferred tax liability and movement during the year: On On derivative On losses investment financial carried property instruments forward Total Group m m m m Opening balance 1 September 2016 3.4 3.4 Additions on acquisition of control of joint venture 2.8 2.8 Expense for the year recognised in the income statement 3.5 3.5 Foreign currency translation 0.7 0.7 Opening balance 1 September 2017 10.4 10.4 Expense credit for the year recognised in the income statement 1.3 0.4 1.4 0.5 Foreign currency translation 0.4 0.4 Closing balance at 31August 2018 11.3 0.4 1.4 9.5 There were no unrecognised deferred tax assets at 31August 2018 31August 2017: 0.2million.
Payables Group Company Represented 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Non-current Other sundry payables 0.2 0.2 Total non-current other payables 0.2 0.2 Current Amounts payable to subsidiaries Note 34 12.8 87.2 Amounts payable to related parties Note 34 0.4 0.6 0.3 Rent received in advance 5.0 4.3 Trade payables 0.7 1.1 Accrued interest 2.7 2.4 VAT payable 4.7 4.0 Accruals 5.9 6.1 1.6 1.6 Service charge 4.6 0.7 1 Tenant deposits 2.9 0.1 Other sundry payables 1.9 0.1 Total current trade and other payables 26.9 21.2 14.5 89.1 Total payables 27.1 21.2 14.7 89.1 1 At 31August 2018, 2.8million of tenant deposits relate to the London Serviced Office portfolio acquired during the year.
Prior year other payables have been represented to separately disclose service charge and tenant deposits and ensure consistency with current year presentation.
Share capital and share premium Group and Company Authorised share Number of capital Authorised shares m At 31August 2017 ordinary shares of 8 pence each 3,000,000,000 240.0 At 31August 2018 ordinary shares of 8 pence each 3,000,000,000 240.0 Share Share Number of capital premium Issued, called up and fully paid shares m m At 31 August 2016 1,794,598,650 143.6 502.1 Scrip dividend issued December 2016 17,141,172 1.3 5.3 Scrip dividend issued June 2017 16,320,324 1.3 4.4 At 31August 2017 1,828,060,146 146.2 511.8 Share issuance 1 November 2017 12,500,000 1.0 4.0 Share issuance 13 November 2017 41,074,224 3.3 13.1 Share issuance 13 November 2017 4,783,697 0.4 1.5 Share issuance 24 November 2017 2,496,630 0.2 0.8 Scrip dividend issued December 2017 16,218,190 1.3 4.5 Share buyback programme 15 May to 8 June 2018 14,054,524 1.1 4.1 Scrip dividend issued June 2018 9,371,173 0.7 3.0 At 31August 2018 1,900,449,536 152.0 534.6 Share transactions In October 2016, the Company declared a second interim dividend of 1.575 pence per share for the six months ended 31 August 2016 and offered shareholders an election to receive either a cash dividend or a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new RDI shares credited as fully paid up.
The Company received election forms from shareholders holding 489.1million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 27.3 per cent take up by shareholders, in respect of which 17.1million scrip dividend shares were issued in December 2016.
In April 2017, the Company declared an interim dividend of 1.3 pence per share for the six months ended 28 February 2017 and offered shareholders an election to receive either a cash dividend or a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new Redefine International shares credited as fully paid up.
The Company received election forms from shareholders holding 522.2million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 28.8 per cent take up by shareholders, in respect of which 16.3million scrip dividend shares were issued in June 2017.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 155 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 27.
Share capital and share premium continued Share transactions continued On 1 November 2017, the Group issued 12.5million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share to acquire 5.0million shares in IHL valued at 1 per share.
On 13 November 2017 and on fulfilment of the scheme of arrangement, the Group issued 41.1million shares at 40.0 pence per share in consideration for the acquisition of 16.4million shares in IHL from scheme participants.
On the same date, the Group also issued 4.8million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share to acquire 1.9million shares in IHL valued at 1 per share.
On 24 November 2017, the Group formally issued 2.5million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share in settlement of the 1.0million shares in IHL that had been acquired on 17 November 2017 at 1 per share.
In October 2017, the Company declared a second interim dividend of 1.3 pence per share for the six months ended 31August 2017 and offered shareholders an election to receive either a cash dividend or a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new RDI shares credited as fully paid up.
The Company received election forms from shareholders holding 512.9million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 27.2 per cent take up by shareholders, in respect of which 16.2million scrip dividend shares were issued in December 2017.
Following an announcement on 9 May 2018, the Company entered into a share buy-back programme between 15 May 2018 and 8 June 2018.
In total, 14.0million shares were acquired for total consideration of 5.2million, including transaction costs.
In May 2018, the Company declared an interim dividend of 1.35 pence per share for the six months ended 28 February 2018 and offered shareholders an election to receive either a cash dividend or a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new RDI shares credited as fully paid up.
The Company received election forms from shareholders holding 282.1million ordinary shares of 8 pence each representing a 14.9 per cent take up by shareholders, in respect of which 9.3million scrip dividend shares were issued in June 2018.
Reserves Other reserves Share-based payment reserve The share-based payment reserve at 31August 2018 of 2.3million 31August 2017: 3.2million arises from outstanding conditional awards of shares in the Company made to certain employees and the Executive Directors.
The awards will vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to certain performance conditions being achieved over the vesting period.
The Group released from the reserve to retained earnings 1.9million of cumulative IFRS 2 charge on lapsed and vested awards.
The Group incurred a further 0.1million in relation to awards that vested with certain employees and has recognised the charge directly in retained earnings such that the net credit to retained earnings for the year in relation to share-based payments was 1.8million.
The IFRS 2 share-based payment charge for the year was 1.0million 31August 2017: 1.0million.
Detailed information on the sharebased payment plans in place is included in Note 35.
Other reserves Other reserves of 1.0million 31August 2017: 1.0million arose from the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve at 31August 2018 of 17.9million 31August 2017: 23.4million represents exchange differences arising from the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, including both subsidiary and joint venture interests.
4.2million of cumulative translation gains were transferred to the income statement during the year ended 31August 2017 on disposal of joint venture interests.
Non-controlling interests 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Opening balance at 1 September 21.8 33.6 Comprehensive income for the year: Share of profit for the year 7.4 3.5 Foreign currency translation on subsidiary foreign operations 0.1 Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries: Recognition of noncontrolling interests on acquisition of subsidiaries 33.8 Acquisition of noncontrolling interests 0.1 12.7 Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 3.4 1.7 1 Recognition of noncontrolling interests on acquisition of control of former joint venture 0.7 Reclassification of non-controlling interest shareholder loans to liabilities 0.3 Total non-controlling interests 59.5 21.8 1 On acquisition of control of the Leopard portfolio Note 32, the non-controlling interests proportionate share 6 per cent of the identifiable net liabilities of 0.7 million wasrecognised.
156 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 The following table summarises the financial information relating to the Groups only subsidiary that has a material NCI, RHHL, before any intra-group eliminations.
31August 2018 31August 2017 London International Redefine Other Total Redefine Other Total Serviced Hotel Hotels individually nonHotel individually non Offices Group Holdings immaterial controlling Holdings immaterial controlling Limited Limited Limited subsidiaries interests Limited subsidiaries interests m m m m m m m m Principal place of business United United United United Kingdom Kingdom Kingdom Kingdom Country of incorporation Isle of Man BVI BVI BVI Percentage ownership interest 20.0% 25.9% 17.52% 17.52% Summarised balance sheet Investment property 163.4 119.0 229.0 223.7 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.8 0.2 2.6 8.0 Cash and cash equivalents 4.0 2.7 4.7 Borrowings, including finance leases 72.8 51.7 113.3 113.1 Trade and other payables 5.1 3.1 1.0 Net assets 90.6 67.1 123.1 117.6 NCI share of adjusted net assets 18.1 17.4 21.6 20.6 Carrying amount of NCI 18.1 17.4 21.6 2.4 59.5 20.6 1.2 21.8 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 9.8 9.1 9.8 14.0 Profit for the year 6.6 7.3 6.6 14.2 Profit attributable to NCI 1.3 1.9 1.3 1.4 7.4 3.0 0.5 3.5 Other comprehensive income attributable to NCI 0.1 0.1 Dividends paid to NCI 1.0 0.6 1.0 3.4 1.6 0.1 1.7 Summarised cash flow statement Cash inflow from operating activities 10.7 5.5 4.1 11.4 Cash outflow inflow from investing activities 0.5 5.6 3.0 Cash outflow from financing activities 10.4 2.8 5.7 5.4 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.2 2.7 4.0 3.0 30.
Transactions with non-controlling interests At 1 September 2016, 4C Investments was a non-controlling shareholder of RHHL, with an 11.43 per cent equity interest 1,938 shares in the issued share capital.
The Company had a loan balance outstanding from 4C Investments, for which a share charge was created in favour of the Company over 4C Investments entire shareholding in RHHL.
The total loan balance outstanding, of both principal and interest, was 14.2million on maturity at 31 December 2016.
In the absence of repayment, the Company exercised its security over the shares.
On 7 February 2017, the 1,938 shares formally transferred to the Company for an agreed transfer price of 6,295 per share, valuing the total shareholding at 12.1million.
The carrying value of the non-controlling interest at the date of transfer was 12.7million and, asa result, a gain of 0.4million was recognised directly in equity after transaction costs including tax paid by the Group on behalf of 4C Investments.
During the year ended 31August 2018, the Group clawed back historic tax paid on behalf of 4C Investments.
This has been treated as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest acquired and has resulted in a gain of 0.5million directly in equity.
In advance of the Leopard Portfolio disposal refer to Note 8, the non-controlling interest of a Leopard Portfolio subsidiary, Leopard Germany Property Ed2GmbH&Co.
KG LGPEd2 was acquired by the Group for 0.4million.
The non-controlling interests share of net liabilities at the date of sale were Nilmillion andtherefore a loss of 0.4million has been recognised directly in equity.
The gain attributable to equity holders of the Parent as a result of these disposals is set out inthe tablebelow: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired: 4C Investments 0.5 12.7 Noncontrolling interests of LGPEd2 0.5 12.7 Transfer value attributed to non-controlling interest net of transaction costs 12.3 Consideration paid to noncontrolling interests of LGPEd2 0.4 Increase in equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent 0.1 0.4 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 157 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 31.
Cash generated from operations Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 Continuing operations Note m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit loss before tax 97.4 73.5 137.4 5.4 Adjustments for: Straight lining of rental income 0.5 1.1 Depreciation 0.2 Fair value of sharebased payments 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Gain on revaluation of investment property 14 10.8 10.8 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property held for sale 22 0.9 3.9 Gain on disposal of investment property 14 1.5 9.2 Gain loss on disposal of investment property held for sale 22 1.8 1.5 Net gain on disposal of subsidiaries 8 15.4 Net gain on business combinations 9 4.4 Other income and expense 10 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange loss gain 0.8 0.8 0.2 Finance income 11 0.6 3.4 0.9 Finance expense 11 29.3 28.4 Other finance expense 12 0.6 6.5 0.2 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 6.1 4.5 Net gain on sale of joint venture interests 0.1 4.9 Net impairment reversal impairment of joint ventures and associate interests 17, 18 0.1 0.1 Share of posttax loss from joint ventures 17 2.3 Share of post-tax profit from associate 18, 22 0.3 1.1 Transfer of foreign currency translation on disposal of joint venture interest 17 2.0 87.4 77.5 139.2 5.3 Intra-group transactions Settlement of loans 34 5.2 0.8 Distributions 34 149.8 87.4 77.5 5.4 6.1 Changes in working capital 0.4 1.9 0.5 0.9 Changes in trading loans to and from subsidiary undertakings 75.1 43.1 Cash generated from operations 87.0 75.6 69.2 36.1 32.
Acquisition of subsidiaries asset acquisition On 6 April 2017, the Group reached a conditional agreement to acquire the controlling interest in the Leopard Portfolio, previously held as a joint venture with RPL refer to Note 17.
Shareholder approval was subsequently received on 25 April 2017 and the transaction completed with economic effect from 1 March 2017.
Aggregate consideration paid to RPL was 49.0million 41.9million and allocated as follows: 0.3million 0.3million for the equity interests acquired: and 48.7million 41.6million for the shareholder loans acquired.
Including transaction costs, the total cash outflow in respect of the acquisition was 42.1million.
On completion, the Group obtained control of the Leopard Portfolio, becoming exposed to the variable returns of the portfolio and having the ability to affect those returns by directing its activities.
The Group therefore began consolidating the Leopard Portfolio on a linebyline basis from 1 March 2017, with the resulting elimination of intragroup shareholder loans.
The transaction was not considered a business combination, having regard to associated processes acquired, and was therefore recognised as an asset acquisition.
The net assets of Leopard on acquisition were 87.2million 74.5million.
The carrying value of the Groups existing joint venture interest, which was derecognised on loss of joint control, was 44.3million 37.7million.
The premium paid to RPL on acquisition of 6.8million 5.9million including transactions costs, was solely allocated to investment property as it was not separately identifiable.
The carrying value of the Leopard property portfolio on 1 March 2017 was 175.5million 149.9million and, as a result, the total amount recognised as an addition on consolidation was 182.3million 155.8million.
The Group has subsequently sold the majority of its interest in the Leopard Portfolio during the year ended 31August 2018 as further outlined in Note 8.
Fair value of financial instruments Basis for determining fair values The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: Quoted market price unadjusted in an active market for an identical instrument.
Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This category includes instruments valued using: quoted market prices in active markets for similar instruments: quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are considered less than active: or other valuation techniques where all significant inputs are directly or indirectly observable from market data.
Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs.
This category includes all instruments where the valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments valuation.
This category includes instruments that are valued based on quoted prices for similar instruments where significant unobservable adjustments or assumptions are required to reflect differences between the instruments.
The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices or dealer price quotations.
For all other financial instruments, the Group uses valuation techniques to arrive at a fair value that reflects a price that would have been determined by willing market participants acting at arms length at the reporting date.
For common and simple financial instruments, such as over-the-counter interest rate swaps and caps, the Group uses widely recognised valuation models for determining the fair value.
The models use only observable market data and require little management judgement which reduces the uncertainty associated with the determination of fair values.
For other financial instruments, the Group determines fair value using net present value or discounted cash flow models and comparisons to similar instruments for which market observable prices exist.
Varying degrees of judgement are required in the determination of an appropriate market benchmark.
Assumptions and inputs used in valuation techniques include riskfree and benchmark interest rates, credit spreads and other premia used in estimating discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates and expected price volatilities and correlations.
Availability of observable market prices and inputs vary depending on the products and markets and is prone to changes based on specific events and general conditions in the financial markets.
The tables below present information about the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value as of 31August 2018 and 31August 2017.
Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value Group m m m m 31August 2018 Financial assets Derivative financial assets Note 24 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities Note 24 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 31August 2017 Financial assets Investment at fair value Note 16 8.5 8.5 Derivative financial assets Note 24 0.4 0.4 8.5 0.4 8.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities Note 24 7.8 7.8 7.8 7.8 Derivative financial instruments have been categorised as Level 2, as although they are priced using directly observable inputs, the instruments are not traded in an active market.
In the 2017 financial year, the investment in IHL was categorised as a Level 1 investment and priced using quoted prices in an active market: the AltX ofthe JSE.
As stated in Note 14 and 22 respectively, the Group considers investment property and noncurrent assets held for sale to be categorised as Level 3.
As stated in Note 23, the Group considers all bank loans to be categorised as Level 3.
131.6million of fixed rate debt was reclassified by the Group from Level 2 during the year.
Finance lease obligations are as classified as Level 3, the fair value of which is presented in Note 23.
The fair value of loans to joint ventures is presented in Note 17 and this financial asset is classified as Level 3.
The carrying values of trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and trade and other payables are considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 159 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 34.
Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include: associate undertakings: joint ventures: Directors and key management personnel: connected parties: the major shareholder Redefine Properties Limited RPL : as well as entities connected through common directorships.
Group Company 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Revenue transactions Group Rental income RBH 22.0 14.0 Other income Joint venture investment management and performance fee income RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. 0.1 Leopard Portfolio 0.3 Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. 3.5 Administrative costs and other fees OSIT investment management fees 0.6 Distributions from investments at fair value International Hotel Properties Limited 0.2 Finance income Joint venture loan interest income Leopard Portfolio 1.5 Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. 0.8 RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. 0.3 0.4 Related parties of Menora joint venture 0.1 4C UK Investments Limited 0.5 0.5 0.4 3.2 0.5 Total revenue transactions Group 21.9 21.2 0.5 Revenue transactions Company Settlement of loans Ciref Europe Limited 0.9 Wichford Alpha Limited 0.1 RDI REIT Limited 0.1 Wichford Edgbaston Holdings Limited 5.1 5.2 0.8 Distributions from subsidiary undertakings Redefine AUK Limited 74.8 Redefine International Management Holdings Limited 7.3 Redefine International Holdings Limited 43.5 Leopard Holdings UK Limited 9.7 RDI Serviced Offices Limited 1.3 Redefine Cyprus Limited 5.0 Redefine North Street Limited 1.1 Redefine Waterside Leeds Limited 0.8 Wichford Delta Limited 6.3 149.8 Administrative costs and other fees Redefine International Group Services Limited 0.8 Finance income Redefine Cyprus Limited 0.4 Total revenue transactions Company 144.6 0.4 160 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Group Company 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Capital transactions Group Investment property capitalised expenditure Project monitoring fee to RBH construction works 0.2 0.1 Investment at fair value through profit or loss International Hotel Properties Limited shares acquired transferred at cost 1.0 Investment in associate Transfer price of 4C Investments interests in RBH 1.3 1.3 Dividends received from RBH including held for sale investment 0.7 1.2 Non-controlling interests Transfer price of 4C UK Investments Limiteds interests in RHHL 12.1 Adjustment to carrying value of the non-controlling interest in RHHL Note 29 0.6 Total capital transactions Group 1.2 13.3 Capital transactions Company Investment in subsidiary undertakings settlement of balances outstanding in consideration for shares and redemption of shares Additions: Capitalisation of loan with RDI Serviced Office Limited for shares 70.2 Capitalisation of loan with Redefine Share Investments Limited for shares 51.1 Redefine International Holdings Limited 103.8 121.3 103.8 Redemptions: Redefine International Holdings Limited 4.1 102.9 Total capital transactions Company 117.2 0.9 Related party transactions with equity holders of the Parent Redefine Properties Limited IHL acquisition share-for-share exchange 7.9 7.9 Redefine Properties Limited IHL acquisition cash 7.5 7.5 Redefine Properties Limited cash dividends 14.8 13.8 14.8 13.8 Redefine Properties Limited scrip dividends 1.7 1.7 Total related party transactions with equity holders of the Parent 30.2 15.5 30.2 15.3 Related party balances Group Loans to joint ventures RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. 5.2 4.3 Trade and other receivables RBH tenant lease incentives 1.2 0.8 RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. 0.3 0.5 1.5 1.3 Trade and other payables RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. 0.4 Wichford VBG Holding S.. r. l. 0.6 0.3 0.4 0.6 0.3 Total related party balances Group 6.3 5.0 0.3 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 161 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 34.
Related party transactions continued Group Company 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Related party balances Company Trade and other receivables Redefine International Holdings Limited 1.5 56.1 Everton Shopping Centres S.. r. l. 27.6 Redefine Share Investments Limited 1.8 2.5 Leopard Holding UK Limited 0.8 Wichford Property General Partner 0.1 EKZ SSC Berlin GmbH 0.3 Redefine Cyprus Limited 0.3 3.9 87.1 Trade and other payables Leopard Holding UK Limited 8.9 Everton Shopping Centres S.. r. l. 0.6 Redefine International Management Holdings Limited 0.1 2.3 Redefine AUK Holdings Limited 76.2 Redefine Cyprus Limited 1.3 6.1 Redefine North Street Limited 1.9 1.5 Wichford Edgbaston Limited 0.8 Redefine Waterside Leeds Limited 0.3 12.8 87.2 Total related party balances Company 8.9 0.1 Redefine Properties Limited On 1 November 2017, the Group issued 12.5million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share to acquire 5.0million shares in IHL valued at 1 per share.
On13November 2017, the Group issued 4.8million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share to acquire 1.9million shares in IHL valued at 1 per share.
On24November 2017, the Group issued 2.5million shares to Redefine Properties at 40.0 pence per share in settlement of the 1.0million shares in IHL that had been acquired with effect from 17 November 2017 at 1 per share.
On the same date, the Group paid Redefine Properties 7.5million in settlement of 7.5million shares inIHL that had transferred at 1 per share with effect from 17 November 2017.
All transactions are considered to be at arms-length.
4C UK Investments Limited On 7 February 2017, the Company exercised its security against a loan advanced to 4C Investments that had matured.
In settlement of the 14.2million balance outstanding, the following investments were transferred to the Group: 4C Investments non-controlling interest in RHHL for a transfer price of 12.1million Note 30 : 4C Investments shareholding in RBH for a transfer price of 1.3million Note 22 : and 4C Investments shareholding in IHL for a transfer price of 1.0million.
As the total transfer price for the shares was 14.4million, 0.2million cash was paid back by the Company to 4C Investments.
On the same date, the Company entered into a lockup agreement with 4C Investments whereby the latter had the right to buy back the transferred shares in RHHL and RBH on or before 31 January 2018 at the transfer price.
4C Investments did not exercise the right to reacquire the RHHL shares before 31 January 2018.
The right to acquire the RBH shares was formally extended and 4C Investments formally reacquired the shares on 14 February 2018.
As part of the transaction, 4C Investments contractually agreed to reimburse the Group for historic nonresident landlord tax paid on 4C Investments behalf in relation to its noncontrolling interest in RHHL.
This reimbursement has been treated as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest.
OSIT OSIT indirectly holds the 20 per cent noncontrolling interest in the newly acquired LSO portfolio and is contracted as the manager of each property.
RDI entered into revised management contracts on acquisition for OSIT to continue as manager for a minimum term of ten years.
Management fees are payable on a ratcheted basis with reference to the forecast EBITDA of each property.
OSIT has charged 0.6million of management fees since the Group acquired control of the portfolio on12January 2018 Note 7.
162 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Directors Nonexecutive Directors and Executive Directors represent key management personnel.
The remuneration paid to Nonexecutive Directors for the year ended 31August 2018 was 0.5million 31August 2017: 0.4million which represents Directors fees only.
The remuneration payable to Executive Directors for the year ended 31August 2018 was 2.6million 31August 2017: 2.7million, representing salaries, benefits and bonuses.
5.8million contingent share awards were issued toExecutive Directors during the year 31August 2017: 4.9million.
The IFRS 2 share-based payment charge associated with the cumulative contingent share awards tothe Executive Directors was 0.9million 31August 2017: 0.9million for the year.
The table below shows Directors dealings in shares for the period 1 September 2016 to 31August 2018: Number of Price per ordinary ordinary shares share Name Date of transaction Transaction acquired acquired Marc Wainer 4 December 2015 Scrip dividend 3,052 52.4p Adrian Horsburgh 25 November 2016 Scrip dividend 347 38.9p Bernie Nackan 25 November 2016 Scrip dividend 682 38.9p Stephen Oakenfull 27 February 2017 Share acquisition 50,000 36.6p Adrian Horsburgh 27 February 2017 Share acquisition 50,000 36.4p Donald Grant 27 February 2017 Share acquisition 50,000 36.3p Adrian Horsburgh 26 June 2017 Scrip dividend 1,842 36.2p Bernie Nackan 26 June 2017 Scrip dividend 619 36.2p Marc Wainer 13 November 2017 IHL consideration 3,157,846 40.0p Mike Watters 13 November 2017 IHL consideration 70,790 40.0p Donald Grant 16 January 2018 Share acquisition 25,000 35.94p Mike Watters 17 January 2018 Share acquisition 67,000 35.95p Bernie Nackan 25 June 2018 Scrip dividend 669 35.4p Adrian Horsburgh 25 June 2018 Scrip dividend 1,989 35.4p Investment in subsidiaries The Companys principal subsidiary undertakings and investment therein are listed below.
These entities are the intermediary holding companies of property owning entities unless otherwise stated.
31August 31August 2018 2017 Name of subsidiary Domicile % m m Everton Shopping Centre S.. r. l. Luxembourg 100 32.7 32.7 RDI Serviced Office Limited Isle of Man 100 70.2 Redefine AUK Limited British Virgin Islands 100 296.7 296.7 Redefine International Holdings Limited Jersey 100 159.3 163.4 1 Redefine International Management Holdings Limited British Virgin Islands 100 32.7 32.7 Redefine Share Investments Limited Isle of Man 100 59.6 8.5 2 Redefine Waterside Leeds Limited British Virgin Islands 100 3.9 3.9 Wichford Edgbaston Holdings Limited British Virgin Islands 100 2.0 2.0 Leopard Holding UK Limited England & Wales 100 2 Redefine North Street Limited British Virgin Islands 100 657.1 539.9 1 Redefine International Management Holdings Limited is the intermediary holding company of the management companies of the Group.
2 Redefine Waterside Leeds Limited and Redefine North Street Limited are property owning entities.
The key risks associated with the Companys subsidiary undertakings are considered to be consistent with the Groups principal risks as disclosed on pages 20 to 21 of the strategic report.
A full list of the Companys direct and indirect related party interests is presented in Appendix A to these financial statements.
Share-based payments Group and Company 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Sharebased payment reserve m m Opening balance at 1 September 3.2 2.2 Sharebased payment expense in the year 1.0 1.0 Release of sharebased payment reserve 1.9 Closing balance at 31 August 2.3 3.2 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 163 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 35.
Share-based payments continued The Companys share-based payments are all equity-settled and comprise the Long Term Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Long Term Restricted Stock Plan RSP for employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the grant date.
The expense is recognised on a straightline basis over the vesting period based on estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest at each reporting date, with a corresponding credit to the sharebased payments reserve.
The Company engages external advisers to determine the fair value of each award at the grant date who use the Monte Carlo and BlackScholes models in their valuations.
The Companys share-based payments are all equity-settled and comprise the Long Term Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Long Term Restricted Stock Plan RSP for employees.
During the year ended 31August 2018, the total IFRS 2 charge recognised in the income statement in relation to the PSP awards was 0.9million .
During the year ended 31August 2018, the total IFRS 2 charge recognised in the income statement in relation to the RSP awards was0.1million 31August 2017: 0.1million.
Long Term Long Term Performance Share Plan Restricted Stock Plan 31August 31August 31August 31August Conditional share awards 000s 2018 2017 2018 2017 Awards brought forward 9,890 8,371 1,407 780 Awarded during the year 5,784 4,919 1,301 1,095 Lapsed during the year 3,400 Forfeited during the year 86 468 Awards carried forward 15,674 9,890 2,622 1,407 Exercisable at 31 August Shares outstanding under each scheme are to be issued for nominal consideration provided performance conditions are met at the end of the three year performance period.
As at 31August 2018, 4.6million PSP awards and 1.2million RSP awards were considered to be dilutive 31August 2017: 1.3million and 0.7million respectively.
Full disclosure of the PSP and RSP award schemes are given in pages 100 to 101 of the Annual Report.
Long-Term Performance Share Plan Subsequent to shareholder approval on 23 January 2017, PSP performance conditions for awards issued from 1 September 2016 were revised so as to better align the awards with the Companys mediumterm strategic objectives and shareholder interests.
The Remuneration Committee are authorised to make grants of PSP shares with a face value of up to 200 per cent of the salary of Executive Directors.
The awards are subject to a threeyear vesting period from the date of grant and to the following performance conditions: 50 per cent of the award will vest dependent on underlying distributable earnings per share.
25 per cent of the award will vest upon attaining earnings per share comparable with the immediately preceding financial year, with 100 per cent vesting achieved for average annual outperformance of CPI during the performance period of 1 per cent: 25 per cent of the award will vest dependent on the relative total property return of the Companys UK assets in comparison to IPD UK All Property Index.
25 per cent of the award will vest once performance reaches that of the benchmark with 100 per cent vesting achieved for 2 per cent outperformance: and 25 per cent of the award will vest dependent on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR equalling, or exceeding, the TSR relative to that of each of the members of the FTSE EPRA REIT Developed Europe Index the Index.
25 per cent of the award will vest for median performance with 100 per cent vesting achieved for upper quartile performance.
On 25 January 2017, 4.9million shares were granted for the performance period from 1 September 2016 to 31 August 2019.
The share price on 1 September 2016 was 39.0 pence and the fair value on the grant date was 1.2million assuming maximum vesting over the performance period.
On 18 January 2018, 5.8million shares were granted for the performance period 1 September 2017 to 31 August 2020.
The share price on 1 September 2017 was 36.2pence and the fair value at the grant date was 1.4million, assuming maximum vesting over the performance period.
1.3million of the total charge is attributable to the non-market based performance conditions and 0.1million is attributable to market based performance conditions.
Share awards issued before 1 September 2016 were subject to marketbased performance conditions only and the Remuneration Committee were authorised to make grants of PSP shares with a face value of up to 250 per cent of the salary of Executive Directors under these awards.
These awards were subject to a threeyear vesting period from the date of grant and to the following marketbased performance conditions: 50 per cent of the award will vest dependent on the TSR equalling, or exceeding, the TSR relative to that of each of the members of the Index: and 50 per cent of the award will vest dependent on the Companys TSR relative to that of the members of a bespoke comparator group the Comparator Group.
Vesting is on the same sliding scale for both of these conditions 25 per cent for median performance and 100 per cent for upper quartile performance, with 0 per cent vesting below a median performance.
On 28 October 2015, 5.0million shares were granted for the performance period 1 September 2015 to 31August 2018.
The share price on 1 September 2015 was 52.2pence and the fair value on the grant date was 1.5million.
Performance during the period has been determined to be below median and therefore the awards are likely to lapse in full on 28 October 2018 subject to the Remuneration Committee discretion.
164 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Long Term Restricted Stock Plan Awards of RSPs to certain employees are subject to a threeyear vesting period from the date of grant and to performance measures evenly balanced between corporate performance objectives and personal performance objectives.
The performance conditions of RSP awards were also revised effective 1 September 2016.
50 per cent of the award will vest dependent on corporate targets, being the same as those conditions set out above for the PSP under both the revised and existing remuneration policies and with the same relative weighting: and 50 per cent of the award will vest dependent on personal objectives, linked to average performance grades achieved by the employee over the threeyear vestingperiod.
On 3 December 2015, 0.9million shares were granted to employees under the old RSP scheme for the performance period 1 September 2015 to 31August 2018.
Theshare price on 1 September 2015 was 52.2 pence and the fair value on the date of grant was 0.3million.
On 25 January 2017, 1.1million shares were granted to employees under the revised RSP scheme for the performance period from 1 September 2016 to 31August 2019.
The share price on 1 September 2016 was 39.0 pence and the fair value on the grant date was 0.3million, assuming maximum vesting over the performanceperiod.
On 18 January 2018, 1.3million shares were granted for the performance period 1 September 2017 to 31 August 2020.
The share price on 1 September 2017 was 36.2pence and the fair value at the grant date was 0.3million, assuming maximum vesting over the performance period.
All of the charge is attributable to the nonmarket based performance conditions.
Fair value of share-based payments For the market-based performance conditions, the effect of the performance conditions is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
No subsequent adjustment to the charge can be made to reflect the outcome of the performance test.
Adjustments can be made for estimated and actual leavers who forfeit their awards during the vesting period.
The probability of meeting market based performance conditions is required to be incorporated into the calculation of fair value.
TheMonte Carlo model has therefore been used to value the element of the Awards with a TSR performance condition.
The remaining non-market based performance conditions have been valued using a BlackScholes model.
It was necessary to make a number of assumptions to calculate the fair value under both models.
Reference was made to the Companys LSE listing in developing share price volatility, dividend yield, riskfree rate and index correlation assumptions.
The table below sets out the assumptions made: Award Award year year 2018 2017 Assumptions % % Volatility 19.4 20.7 Riskfree rate 0.5 0.4 Dividend yield 7.2 8.2 Correlation of the Index companies 23.5 24.2 Expected dividend yield is based on one year historical dividend yield at the date of grant.
The fair value calculation under the revised PSP award scheme assumes 27.7per cent 2017: 28.2 per cent of the face value will be awarded at the date of grant relative to the Index.
Financial risk management The Group is exposed to the following financial risks through its operations: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
In common with all other businesses, the Group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments.
The following quantitative and qualitative disclosures describe the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing these risks, and the Groups management of capital.
The Groups risk management policies require the identification and analysis of the risks faced by the Group, the setting of appropriate risk limits and controls, and the monitoring of risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Groups Board of Directors has responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to reduce risk as far as possible without unduly affecting the Groups flexibility and ability to maximise returns.
The Group Audit and Risk Committee oversees managements compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
There are no significant concentrations of risk and there has been no significant change during the financial year, or since year end, to the types of financial risks faced by the Group or the Groups approach to the management of such risks.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 165 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 36.
Financial risk management continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Groups maximum credit risk exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Loans to joint ventures 5.2 4.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 0.4 Trade and other receivables 16.7 23.0 Cash and cash equivalents 59.0 52.8 82.0 80.5 The above table excludes prepayments which are not exposed to credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments and cash and cash equivalents Credit risk arises on the Groups undrawn commitments, its holding of assets such as cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks or financial institutions and itsderivative financial instruments.
However, the Group limits such exposure by investing in liquid deposits with material counterparties that have a credit rating of A, A2 or above from Standard & Poors or Moodys, except where specific exemptions are granted by the Board.
Group Cash and cash Derivative equivalents assets Total Total 2018 2017 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August Credit Credit 2018 2018 2018 2017 Counterparties rating rating m m m m HSBC Aa3 A2 37.7 0.2 37.9 40.8 NatWest A1 A3 10.4 10.4 6.5 Barclays A2 4.0 0.5 4.5 BayernLB Aa3 A1 2.3 2.3 1.0 Santander A2 A3 2.2 0.2 2.4 Berlin Hyp A1 A1 1.4 RBS Baa2 Baa3 0.2 0.2 Other 2.4 2.4 3.5 59.0 1.1 60.1 53.2 The Group actively monitors its credit exposure to each counterparty and in dealing with high quality, reputable and longestablished institutions, management do not expect any counterparty will fail to meet its obligations.
Trade and other receivables The Group is also exposed to credit risk from lease contracts in relation to its property portfolio.
This risk is actively managed by the asset and property managers who continuously monitor and work with tenants, anticipating and wherever possible, identifying and addressing risks prior to default.
If there is objective evidence that the Group may not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the lease concerned a specific impairment is made.
The Group also makes a general provision of 25 per cent against all receivables 120 days or more past due that have not been specifically impaired.
Rent receivables exposed to credit risk were less than 0.1 per cent of total assets at 31August 2018 31August 2017: less than 0.1 per cent.
The credit risk associated with rent receivables is considered to be low, owing to the long term nature and diversity of the Groups tenancy agreements.
The Group has set a medium term target of a 95 per cent collection rate within seven days.
The Groups rent collection rate was 98.0 per cent 31August 2017: 94.3 per cent.
Other receivables, including loans to external parties and consideration outstanding on disposal of investment property are secured and therefore they are also considered to be of low credit risk.
Included in trade and other receivables, subject to credit risk, are debtors with the following age profile: 2018 2017 Gross Impairment Recoverable Gross Impairment Recoverable m m m m m m Not past due 15.5 15.5 20.3 20.3 Past due 0 120 days 1.6 0.4 1.2 2.0 2.0 Past due over 120 days 0.6 0.6 2.0 1.3 0.7 17.7 1.0 16.7 24.3 1.3 23.0 166 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Loans to joint ventures The credit risk associated with loans to joint ventures is the risk that the loans advanced may not be recoverable.
As at 31August 2018, the recognised loan to joint ventures relates to the loan advanced to RI Menora German Holdings S.. r. l. This joint venture group is in a net asset position and has serviced all of its payment obligations to date under the terms of the loan.
The Group is also responsible for the investment management of the joint venture and therefore has oversight of working capital and can manage cash flow requirements.
The risk that this loan will not be recovered is considered low.
The Group has also advanced a loan of 3.3million to the Esplanade.
Under the equity method, the Esplanade was carried at Nil in the Groups financial statements at 1 September 2017 and remains at Nil at 31August 2018.
This investment is in a net liability position with the cumulative losses to date exceeding or equalling the cost of the Groups investment.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups working capital and debt servicing obligations.
There below fives consideration to the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that there will always sufficient resources to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Liquidity risk is actively managed by the Groups finance department.
Twice a month, management receive and review rolling six-month cash flow projections to ensure that there is sufficient headroom in the near term to meet ongoing operational requirements and upcoming capital commitments.
In addition, the Board has been presented with and reviewed a three-year liquidity plan to 31 August 2021.
At the balance sheet date, these projections indicated that the Group had sufficient liquid resources to meet its obligations under all reasonably expected circumstances.
The monitoring of liquidity is also assisted by the quarterly review of covenants imposed by financial institutions, such as loan-to-value and interest cover ratios.
Loans are renegotiated in advance of any potential covenant breaches insofar as the factors are within the control of the Group.
The Board will ensure during periods of increased market uncertainty that sufficient cash resources are available for potential loan repayments or cash deposits as may be required by financial institutions.
The Groups loan facilities and other borrowings are also spread across a range of banks and financial institutions so as to minimise any potential concentration of risk.
The tables below set out the contractual maturities of financial liabilities based on the undiscounted obligations to make interest payments and to repay the principal: More Carrying Contractual 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 than 5 amount cash flows or less months years years years Group m m m m m m m 31August 2018 Financial liabilities Bank and other loans 775.7 1,011.7 13.9 14.0 80.1 580.2 323.5 Finance leases 13.9 113.6 0.4 0.4 0.8 2.4 109.6 Trade and other payables 27.1 27.1 27.1 Tax liabilities 2.0 2.0 2.0 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 2.9 6.0 0.8 0.8 1.6 2.5 0.3 821.6 1,160.4 44.2 15.2 82.5 585.1 433.4 31August 2017 Financial liabilities Bank and other loans 807.0 1,060.5 12.9 12.7 32.7 656.4 345.8 Finance leases 14.8 118.1 0.4 0.5 0.8 2.5 113.9 Trade and other payables 21.2 21.2 21.2 Tax liabilities 1.2 1.2 1.2 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 7.8 11.7 1.5 1.5 3.0 4.8 0.9 852.0 1,212.7 37.2 14.7 36.5 663.7 460.6 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 167 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 36.
Financial risk management continued Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its investments in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Since the UK referendum on European membership there has been a change in the potential scale and likelihood of volatility in all aspects of market risk, with softening yields, volatility in currency and equity markets and increased inflationary expectations.
Refer to the Groups principal risk disclosures on pages20 and 21 for further information.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business and incurs financial liabilities in order to manage market risks.
The Board of Directors receives reports on a quarterly basis with regards to currency exposures as well as interest rate spreads and takes the necessary steps to hedge and limit the risk the Group is exposed to.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to currency risk, primarily with respect to the Euro EUR.
Foreign exchange risk arises from the Groups exposure to monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations recognised in EUR.
The Groups income from income-producing rental properties is denominated in the same currencies as the loans that are financing those properties.
The Groups investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures are not hedged as the currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
Foreign exchange risk also arises on the payment of the Groups dividend to its JSE shareholders in South African Rand ZAR semi-annually.
The Group enters into forward rate contracts in advance of settlement of the dividends to mitigate this risk.
The carrying amount of the Groups foreign denominated assets and liabilities were as follows: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group m m Assets EUR 259.7 432.8 ZAR 0.6 0.3 Liabilities EUR 138.8 221.1 The following exchange rates were applied during the year: Average rate Year end rate 2018 2017 2018 2017 EUR 1.133 1.151 1.115 1.086 ZAR 17.506 17.031 19.159 16.820 Sensitivity analysis A five per cent strengthening in the GBP exchange rate against the EUR at year end would have decreased equity by 5.8million 31August 2017: 9.9million and profit by 1.6 million 31August 2017: 0.6million.
A five per cent weakening in the GBP exchange rate against the EUR at year end would have had the equal but opposite effect.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At the year end, as a result of the use of interest rate swaps and caps, the majority ofthe Groups borrowings were at fixed interest rates.
Fixed capped Floating Fixed capped Floating 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2018 2017 2017 Group proportionately consolidated m m m m Nominal value of Group bank loans 182.2 610.3 188.7 637.2 Nominal value of joint venture bank loans 8.5 7.2 7.5 8.8 190.7 617.5 196.2 646.0 Derivative impact 614.3 614.3 587.3 587.3 805.0 3.2 783.5 58.7 Interest rate protection % 99.6 93.0 The table above is presented on a proportionately consolidated basis.
The detail included is not a requirement of IFRS and is presented for informational purposes only as it is used in reports presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker for monitoring interest rate risk.
The Group targets interest rate protection against 75 per cent or more of external debt.
The Groups EPRA earnings has limited exposure to interest rate fluctuations until the repayment dates of the loans for which the interest rate swaps and caps have been arranged.
Please see Note 24 for further details on the Groups interest rate swap and cap agreements.
168 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Capital structure and management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the balance between its net debt and capital.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Group manages the capital structure and takes reasonable steps in light of changes in the economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its underlying business and assets.
The key ratios used to monitor the capital structure of the Group, as presented in the following table, are the loantovalue and the interest cover ratios: 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group proportionately consolidated Note m m Loan-to-value Net debt 23 748.4 788.8 Investment property 14 1,620.4 1,538.7 Loan-to-value % 46.2 51.3 1 Loan-to-value pro-forma % 47.3 50.0 Interest cover Net rental income 3 99.1 93.5 Net finance expense 3 28.7 29.0 Interest cover times 3.5 3.2 1 Pro forma adjusted for transactions completed post year end.
The tables above are presented on a proportionately consolidated basis.
The ratios are not a requirement of IFRS and are presented for informational purposes only asthey are used in reports presented to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker for monitoring the Groups capital structure.
The Groups medium term target is that the loantovalue ratio is between 4550 per cent and the interest cover is above three times.
The Board also monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding noncontrolling interests, and the dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.
In order to improve its capital structure, the Company may issue new shares, sellassets to reduce debt, refinance existing borrowings, and adjust the amount of any distribution of dividends.
The level of the Companys borrowings, in terms of its Articles of Association, shall not at any time, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, exceed ten times the aggregate of: the amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company: and the total of capital and revenue reserves.
The Companys dividend policy is to distribute the majority of its underlying earnings in the form of dividends to shareholders.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 169 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 37.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated on the weighted average number of shares in issue and the profit attributable to shareholders.
31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group Note m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 88.9 66.1 Group adjustments: Gain on revaluation of investment property 14 10.8 10.8 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property held for sale 14 0.9 3.9 Gain on disposal of investment property 14 1.5 9.2 Gain on disposal of investment property held for sale 22 1.8 1.5 Net gain on disposal of subsidiaries 8 15.4 Net gain on business combinations 9 4.4 Loss on revaluation of investment at fair value 16 0.3 Loss on disposal of other noncurrent assets held for sale 10 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 19 0.3 0.2 Re-measurement of financial liability 12 1.3 Net change in fair value adjustments on substantial modification of borrowings 12 4.3 Other finance costs 12 0.4 0.3 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 24 6.1 4.5 Loss gain on sale of joint venture interests 17 0.1 5.6 Net impairment reversal impairment of joint ventures and associate interests 17, 18 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax 13 0.5 3.5 Current tax 0.7 Joint venture adjustments: Loss on revaluation of investment property 17 0.2 0.9 Loss on sale of subsidiaries 17 0.7 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 17 0.7 1.1 Deferred tax 0.2 0.6 1 Elimination of unrecognised joint venture adjustments 0.4 0.8 Non-controlling interest adjustments: Gain on revaluation of investment property 1.4 1.1 Change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.1 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 1.1 Impairment of investment in associate 0.1 Deferred tax 0.1 0.4 EPRA earnings 51.9 50.9 Company adjustments: Accretion of fair value adjustments 23 0.8 0.9 Foreign currency movements 0.8 2.0 Underlying earnings re-based 53.5 49.8 Number of ordinary shares millions Weighted average 1,886.5 1,809.9 Dilutive effect of: Contingently issuable share awards under the Long Term Performance Share Plan 35 4.6 1.3 Contingently issuable share awards under the Long Term Restricted Stock Plan 35 1.2 0.7 Diluted weighted average 1,892.3 1,811.9 Earnings per share pence Basic 4.7 3.7 Diluted 4.7 3.6 EPRA earnings per share pence 2.75 2.8 Diluted EPRA earnings per share pence 2.74 2.8 Underlying earnings per share pence 2.84 2.75 Dividend per share pence 2.7 2.6 First interim dividend per share pence 1.35 1.3 Second interim dividend per share pence 1.35 1.3 1 The Group has ceased to recognise the Esplanade in the IFRS statements as the cumulative losses of the joint venture to date have equalled or exceeded the cost of the Groupsinvestment refer to Note 17.
This adjustment eliminates the restricted losses for the year attributable to the Esplanade.
170 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with Circular 04 2018 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, arequirementofthe Groups JSE listing.
This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group Note m m Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 88.9 66.1 Group adjustments: Gain on revaluation of investment property 14 10.8 10.8 Gain loss on revaluation of investment property held for sale 14 0.9 3.9 Gain on disposal of investment property 14 1.5 9.2 Gain on disposal of investment property held for sale 22 1.8 1.5 Net gain on disposal of subsidiaries 8 15.4 Net gain on business combinations 9 5.5 Loss on disposal of other noncurrent assets held for sale 10 0.1 Loss gain on sale of joint venture interests 17 0.1 5.6 Net impairment reversal impairment of joint ventures and associate interests 17, 18 0.1 0.2 Transfer of foreign currency translation on disposal of joint venture interests 17 2.0 Deferred tax 13 1.3 3.5 Joint venture adjustments: Loss on revaluation of investment property 17 0.2 0.9 Loss on sale of subsidiaries 17 0.7 Deferred tax 0.2 0.6 1 Elimination of unrecognised joint venture adjustments 0.3 0.1 Non-controlling interest adjustments: Gain on revaluation of investment property 1.4 1.1 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 1.1 Impairment of investment in associate 0.1 Deferred tax 0.1 0.4 Headline earnings attributable to equity holders of the Parent 57.1 47.3 Number of ordinary shares millions Weighted average 1,886.5 1,809.9 Diluted weighted average 1,892.3 1,811.9 Headline earnings per share pence Basic 3.0 2.6 Diluted 3.0 2.6 1 The Group has ceased to recognise the Esplanade in the IFRS statements as the cumulative losses of the joint venture to date have equalled or exceeded the cost of the Groupsinvestment refer to Note 17.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 171 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2018 38.
Net asset value per share 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 Group Note m m Net assets attributable to equity holders of the Parent 803.3 740.4 Group adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 24 1.8 7.4 Deferred tax 25 9.5 10.4 Joint venture adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 17 2.8 3.5 1 Elimination of unrecognised derivative financial instruments 2.8 3.5 Deferred tax 17 0.6 0.4 Non-controlling interest adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.1 Deferred tax 0.3 0.3 EPRA NAV 815.0 758.3 Group adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 24 1.8 7.4 Excess of fair value of debt over carrying value 3.7 5.0 Deferred tax 25 9.5 10.4 Joint venture adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 17 2.8 3.5 1 Elimination of unrecognised joint venture derivative financial instruments 2.8 3.5 Deferred tax 17 0.6 0.4 Non-controlling interest adjustments: Fair value of derivative financial instruments 0.1 Deferred tax 0.3 0.3 EPRA NNNAV 799.6 735.4 Number of ordinary shares millions In issue 1,900.4 1,828.1 Dilutive effect of: Contingently issuable share awards under the Long Term Performance Share Plan 4.6 1.3 Contingently issuable share awards under the Long Term Restricted Stock Plan 1.2 0.7 Diluted 1,906.2 1,830.1 Net asset value per share pence : Basic 42.3 40.5 Diluted 42.1 40.5 EPRA diluted NAV per share pence 42.8 41.4 EPRA diluted NNNAV per share pence 41.9 40.2 1 The Group has ceased to recognise the Esplanade in the IFRS statements as the cumulative losses of the joint venture to date have equalled or exceeded the cost of the Groupsinvestment refer to Note 17.
This adjustment eliminates the derivative financial instruments attributable to the Esplanade from the proportionate adjustments.
Contingencies, guarantees and commitments A former subsidiary of the Group, Redefine Australian Investments Limited, has undergone a review by the Australian Tax Office in respect of its calculation of Capital Gains Tax arising on the disposal of securities formerly held in Cromwell Property Group during 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The Directors remain of the view, having sought advice from reputable tax agents and advisers, that the respective filing positions were correct and therefore following the orderly wind down of activities, the Directors placed the company in liquidation in January 2018.
At 31August 2018, the Group was contractually committed to expenditure of 9.5million 31August 2017: 16.8million, of which 8.3million was committed to the future development and enhancement of investment property.
At 31August 2018, the Company had no external contractual commitments 31August 2017: 0.3million.
The Company has also provided wholly owned or controlled subsidiary undertakings with a commitment to provide continued financial support should the need arise.
Subsequent events On 10 September 2018, the Group completed on the acquisition of a 13.5 acre land interest in Bicester, Oxfordshire for 7.9million.
The site has been consented for the development of two distribution units totalling 288,000 sqft in size.
On the same day, the Group entered into a development agreement with Albion Land to construct the two units.
In this respect, the Group has committed to further payments of 7.8million and 10.3million which become payable on practical completion of the first and second unit respectively.
The first unit is expected to achieve practical completion in April 2019 and the second by the end of December 2019.
On 27 September 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of Southwood Business Park, an industrial estate in Farnborough, Hampshire for a total consideration of26.3million, reflecting a net initial yield of 6.2 per cent.
On 12 October 2018, the Group drew 19.4million from a new facility secured over its property at Ingolstadt in Germany following completion of the main development and handover to Primark.
The facility matures in June 2023 and carries a margin of 1.3 per cent and amortises by 0.3million per annum.
Dividends During the year ended 31August 2018, the second interim dividend of 1.3 pence per share for the half year ended 31August 2017 was distributed, as well as the interim dividend of 1.35 pence per share for the sixmonth period ended 28 February 2018.
Both dividends were settled partly in cash and partly through the issue ofscrip dividends.
The Board has declared a second interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31August 2018 of 1.35 pence per share.
The record date for the dividend will be Friday 30November 2018, with payment made on Tuesday 18 December 2018.
The payment will be made entirely in cash with no scrip alternative offered.
Approval of financial statements The financial statements were approved by the Board on 25 October 2018.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 173
