Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting Shareholders on the UK main register who already have their The AGM will be held on Thursday 9 May 2019 at 11.15am at dividends paid: 1 by direct credit into their UK bank or the London Heathrow Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, building society account: or 2 through the Euroclear service Middlesex UB3 5AN.
using the CREST messaging system: or 3 through Computershares Global Payments Service GPS are not The Notice convening the meeting is contained in a separate affected by this change.
Similarly, Shareholders who participate document for Shareholders.
The Notice contains an explanation in our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP are not required to of the business to be considered and is available on the take any action unless they choose to withdraw from the DRIP.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 2019 Financial Calendar and Key Dates Shareholders participating in the DRIP receive additional shares purchased in the market instead of receiving a cash dividend.
Announcement of Quarter 1 interim Statements and if appropriate share certificates are posted management statement 2 May 2019 Annual General Meeting 9 May 2019 to each DRIP participant after the shares have been Record date for 2018 final dividend 23 April 2019 purchased, confirming how many additional shares have Payment of 2018 final ordinary dividend 23 May 2019 been added to their holding.
You can elect to join the DRIP 1 Announcement of 2019 interim results 30 July 2019 by registering at the Computershare Investor Centre at 1 Record date for 2019 interim dividend 23 August 2019 www.
Alternatively, you can request a 1 Payment of 2019 interim ordinary dividend 26 September 2019 DRIP mandate form and terms and conditions by contacting Announcement of Quarter 3 interim 1 Computershare.
management statement 22 October 2019 1 Provisional dates Global Payments Service This service provided by the Registrar enables Shareholders to Dividend have dividend payments paid directly into their bank account in The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 100.2 their chosen local currency.
To view terms and register, please pence per share, for the year ended 31 December 2018. visit www.
Subject to approval at the 2019 AGM, payment will be made on 23 May 2019 to all Shareholders on the register as at Electronic Communications 23 April 2019.
The latest date for receipt of new applications to We encourage all Shareholders to receive an email notification participate in the DRIP in respect of the 2018 final dividend is when Shareholder documents become available online, to 1 May 2019. reduce our impact on the environment.
An election to receive Shareholder communications in this way will: Mandatory Direct Credit We recently changed our practice and now pay dividends to result in annual cost savings to the Company since less Shareholders directly to Shareholders bank accounts: we no paper documentation will need to be produced and posted: longer pay dividend payments by cheque.
The reasons and benefits for this change are: Shareholders receive dividend allow for more effective communications with Shareholders: funds quicker, we reduce our environmental impact, we reduce and the risk of cheque fraud, and reduce the administration costs of issuing or banking cheques.
For our Shareholders who currently support RBs corporate responsibility profile.
have not provided their bank details, you will need to provide Computershare with them as soon as possible, to have your Shareholders can register their email address at dividends paid directly into your bank account.
For each new Shareholder that does so, we will donate to the You can register your preference, either online at Tree for All campaign run by the Woodland Trust.
If you are overseas, you may choose Shareholders who have positively elected for electronic to have your dividends paid to your account in your local communications will receive an email whenever Shareholder currency by using Computershares Global Payment Service documents are available to view on the Companys website.
If you wish to reinvest your dividend to buy more Shareholders who have elected by deemed consent in shares, please join our Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 will receive a hard copy notice of availability of a document on the Companys If you do not choose a new payment method, we will hold website and are entitled to request a hard copy of any such your dividends for you until you provide valid bank details.
document, at any time, free of charge from the Companys Administration charges may be applied to reissue any Registrar.
Shareholders can revoke their consent at any time dividend payments.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 222 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Companys 2018 Annual Report and Notice of the 2019 American Depositary Receipts AGM are available to view at www.
The Investor Reckitt Benckiser Group plc American Depositary Receipts Relations section of the website contains up-to-date ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter market OTC under information for Shareholders, including: the symbol RBGLY.
Five ADRs represent one ordinary RB share.
J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. is the Depositary.
detailed share price information: J. P. Morgan Chase Bank N. A. financial results: PO Box 64504, St. Paul, MN 55164-0504, US Email: jpmorgan.
com regulatory announcements: Telephone number for general queries: Tel.
800 990 1135 dividend payment dates and amounts: Telephone number from outside the US: Tel.
1 651 453 2128 access to Shareholder documents including the Company Secretary Annual Report: and Rupert Bondy share capital information.
Registered Office 103105 Bath Road, Slough Share Dealing Facility Berkshire SL1 3UH The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, Telephone: 44 0 1753 217800 building societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, Registered and domiciled in England and Wales No.
6270876 UK-based Shareholders can buy or sell Reckitt Benckiser Group plc shares using a share dealing facility operated Company Status by the Registrar: Public Limited Company Telephone share dealing: Commission is 1%, plus 35: Auditor stamp duty at 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The service KPMG LLP is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays.
Solicitors Internet share dealing: Commission is 1%, subject to a Linklaters LLP Slaughter and May minimum charge of 30: stamp duty at 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The service is available to place orders out of Registrar and Transfer Office market hours.
The Companys Registrar, Computershare, is responsible for maintaining and updating the Shareholder register and making Terms and conditions of both services can be obtained by dividend payments.
If you have any queries relating to your telephoning 44 0 370 703 0118. shareholding please write to, or telephone, the Companys Registrar at the following address: Analysis of Shareholders as at 31 December 2018 Computershare Investor Services PLC Distribution of shares by type of Shareholder No.
of holdings Shares The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Nominees and institutional investors 5,757 725,203,894 Reckitt Benckiser Shareholder helpline: Individuals 12,011 11,331,285 Tel.
com uk Total 17,768 736,535,179 Size of shareholding No.
1052686 which Statements specialises in realising the value locked up in small This Annual Report and Financial Statements contains shareholdings for charitable purposes.
The resulting proceeds statements with respect to the financial condition, results of are donated to a wide range of charities, reflecting suggestions operations and business of RB the Group and certain of the received from donors.
If you have only a small number of plans and objectives of the Group that are forward-looking Reckitt Benckiser Group plc shares which are uneconomic to statements.
Words such as intends, targets, or the negative continue holding, you may wish to consider donating them to of these terms and other similar expressions of future ShareGift.
org donate-shares or performance or results, and their negatives, are intended to telephone 44 0 20 7930 3737 for more information about identify such forward-looking statements.
In particular, all how to proceed.
Further details about ShareGift can be found statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections at www.
with respect to future matters, including targets for Net Revenue, operating margin and cost efficiency, are forwardUnsolicited Mail looking statements.
Such statements are not historical facts, We are legally obliged to make our register of Shareholders nor are they guarantees of future performance.
available to the public, subject to a proper purpose test.
As a result, some Shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on write to the Mailing Preference Service, MPS FREEPOST 29 circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number LON20771, London W1E 0ZT or register online at register of factors that could cause actual results and developments to online at www.
differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, including many factors outside Boiler Room Scams the Groups control.
Among other risks and uncertainties, the Shareholders who are offered unsolicited investment advice, material or principal factors which could cause actual results to invited to comment on the Companys activities, discounted differ materially are: the general economic, business, political shares, a premium price for shares, or free company or and social conditions in the key markets in which the Group research reports, should take these steps before handing operates: the ability of the Group to manage regulatory, tax over any money: and legal matters, including changes thereto: the reliability of the Groups technological infrastructure or that of third parties Obtain the name of the person and organisation and their on which the Group relies: interruptions in the Groups supply telephone number if possible and make a record of any chain and disruptions to its production facilities: the reputation information given.
of the Groups global brands: and the recruitment and retention of key management.
Check the FCA website which lists steps you can take to protect yourself and how to avoid scams from unauthorised These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of firms: www.
uk consumers  Annual Report and Financial Statements.
by any applicable law or regulation, RB expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein are no contact details on the Register or if they are out to reflect any change in the Groups expectations with regard of date.
thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Using an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments will prohibit access to the Financial Ombudsman Any information contained in the 2018 Annual Report and or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things Financial Statements on the price at which shares or other go wrong.
securities in Reckitt Benckiser Group plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 224 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Registered office 103 - 105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire, SL1 3UH Registered in England & Wales No 6270876 rb.
