Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Responsibility statement of the directors in report and the Group and Company Financial statements respect of the annual financial report inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company Financial statements for each financial year.
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial statements in accordance with International profit or loss of the Group and of the Company and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted undertakings: and by the European Union EU and have prepared the the Strategic report and the Directors report include a Company Financial statements in accordance with UK fair review of the development and performance of the Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced business during the year and the position of the Company Disclosure Framework.
and the Group at the year end, together with a description Under company law the directors must not approve the of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give We consider the Annual report and accounts, taken as a a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial the Groups position and performance, business model statements, the directors are required to: and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply Signed on behalf of the Board.
them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Allen Roberts for the Group Financial statements, state whether they Group Finance Director have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 26th July 2018 adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial statements: for the Company Financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial statements: and prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that the Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 75
