| MORE INFORMATION CONTINUED COMPANY INFORMATION PRINCIPAL OFFICES Hazardous Waste Company Secretary CORPORATE ADVISORS Division Philip Griffin-Smith, FCIS Renewi Hazardous Waste B. V. Netherlands Commercial Vlasweg 12 Email: Independent Auditors Division 4782 PW Moerdijk info@renewi.
com  LLP Renewi Nederland B. V. The Netherlands Flight Forum 240 Websites: Principal Bankers 5657 DH Eindhoven Municipal Division For investors: ING Bank N. V. The Netherlands Renewi UK Services Limited www.
A. Dunedin House For customers: ABN Amro Bank N. V. Belgium Commercial Auckland Park, Mount Farm www.
com KBC Bank N. V. Division Milton Keynes BNP Paribas Fortis S. A. N. V. Renewi Belgium S. A. N. V. Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU HSBC Bank plc Gerard Mercatorstraat 8 B-3920 Registered Office Financial Advisers Lommel Renewi plc Greenhill & Co International LLP Belgium 16 Charlotte Square Edinburgh Corporate Brokers Monostreams Division EH2 4DF Investec Van Gansewinkel Recycling B. V. Registered in Scotland Peel Hunt Flight Forum 240 No.
SC077438 5657 DH Eindhoven Solicitors The Netherlands Corporate Head Office Ashurst LLP Renewi plc Dickson Minto W. S. Dunedin House Auckland Park, Mount Farm PR Advisers Milton Keynes FTI Consulting Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU Tel: 00 44 0 1908 650580 uneconomic to sell, they may wish to may offer to sell shares that turn out to be unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
consider donating them to the charity worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares uk scams.
If you buy or sell shares from an ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686. at an inflated price in return for an upfront unauthorised firm, you will not have access Further information may be obtained from payment.
to the Financial Ombudsman or Financial their website at www.
org or by While high profits are promised, if you buy Services Compensation Scheme.
You should calling 020 7930 3737. or sell shares in this way you will probably always consider getting independent financial lose your money.
Electronic shareholder communication Shareholders may elect to receive future How to avoid fraud Report a scam shareholder documents and information by Firms authorised by the Financial Conduct If you are approached by a fraudster please email or via the Companys website.
This is Authority FCA will rarely contact you out tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting intended to help the environment by reducing of the blue with an offer to buy or sell your form at www.
uk scams, where you paper and transport as well as enabling shares.
If you feel that the person contacting can find out more about investment the Company to save on administration, you is not legitimate, note their name and the scams, or call the FCA Consumer Helpline printing and postage costs.
Please contact the firm they work for: you can check the Financial on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid Company Registrar for details.
uk to see if money to share fraudsters, you should the person and firm is authorised by the FCA.
Share fraud warning Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure not have contact details on the register or tactics to lure investors into scams.
You can search the list of For investors: www.
com 196 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
