com Registrar services for marketing purposes.
Computershares 5,000 to 2,000 per annum came into effect Administrative enquiries concerning Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions can April 2018.
For the financial year 2018 19 shareholdings in the Company should be be found at www.
dividends received amounting to less than made to the Registrar, Computershare 2,000 are tax free.
Dividends in excess of this Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Dividends allowance will continue to be taxed at 7.5% Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ.
Shareholders are strongly encouraged to for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher Computershare can also be contacted by receive their cash dividends by direct transfer rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate telephone on 0370 707 1290.
Shareholders as this ensures dividends are credited taxpayers.
Renewi plc will continue to provide can also manage their holding online by promptly and efficiently.
Shareholders who registered shareholders with a confirmation registering at www.
do not currently have their dividends of the dividends paid by the Company.
Any paid directly to a bank or building society dividends received from Renewi plc should be added to all other dividend income received General Data Protection Regulation account, and who wish to do so, should by shareholders for the respective year when New regulations are now in force giving complete a mandate form obtainable from calculating and reporting their total dividend individuals more control over their personal Computershare.
Overseas shareholders income for tax purposes.
It is the responsibility data and providing greater protections.
wishing to receive their dividend payment of the shareholder to include all dividend Shareholders personal data is maintained in local currency can now do so using income from all shares held in all companies, in accordance with the Companies Act Computershares Global Payments Service.
when calculating any tax liability.
2006 and processed by Renewis Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
The Dividend tax allowance ShareGift security of shareholders data is of the utmost The announcement made by the Chancellor If shareholders have only a small number importance to Renewi and Computershare, in the 2017 Spring Budget that the annual of shares, the value of which makes it neither of whom will use shareholders data dividend tax allowance will be reduced from For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 195
