Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 167 Directors Report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements of The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the the Company and the Group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc the Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 81.
Directors service Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Details of the Directors contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company during 2018 can be found on pages 58 and 59. are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the offices of the Companys legal advisors, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer The Corporate Governance Report for the year on pages 56 to 97 forms LLP, at 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS until the conclusion of the part of the Directors Report, together with the sections of the Annual AGM and will be available at the AGM which will take place on 8 May Report incorporated by reference.
A pro-forma of the Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the is available on our website.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 54 and 104 to 107: Directors powers particulars of any important events affecting the Company which Under the articles of association, the Directors are responsible for the have occurred since the end of the financial year: management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the an indication of likely future developments in the business of the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes Company: and the Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles an indication of the Companys research and development activities contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys digital technology and innovation solutions are referred to throughout power to borrow money.
The articles of association also give power the Strategic Report but particularly on pages 2 to 13, 25 to 27 and 32 tothe Board to appoint and replace Directors as detailed above.
to 37 : details of employee involvement and human rights Corporate Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the articles Responsibility, pages 48 to 54 : of association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each information on greenhouse gas emissions and energy use year at the AGM, as detailed below.
Corporate Responsibility, page 51 : and Directors interests principal risks and uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties, pages 42 The beneficial interests of the Directors, including the interests of any to 47. connected persons, in the share capital of the Company are shown on The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the page 91.
During the year no Director had any material interest in any management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency contract of significance to the Groups business.
Dividend Information to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 in relation to The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 3.16p per share allotment of shares for cash Listing Rule 9.8.
4 7 and waiver of for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2018.
Payment of this dividend dividends Listing Rule 9.8.
No other is subject to shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
Further information paragraphs under Listing Rule 9.8.
on the Companys dividend policy can be found on page 107.
Company constitution Share capital Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales, with The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange company number 5393279.
The Company is a holding company with and an over-the-counter American Depository Receipt ADR listing to limited trading in its own right and with subsidiary undertakings in 73 facilitate shareholding in the United States.
All ordinary shares carry countries the Group operates in 75 countries.
The Companys related the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, undertakings are listed on pages 154 to 158. regardless of the size of their holding.
Articles of association The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the shares of 1p each.
There were 1,843,332,965 shares in issue at Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the 31 December 2018, which represents 100% of the Companys issued conduct of the Board and general meetings.
The articles themselves share capital 2017: 1,837,332,965.
Each ordinary share other than may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
The Company did not hold any Amendments to the articles of association have to be approved by treasury shares between 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 at least 75% of the votes cast by those voting in person or by proxy.
and accordingly the Company did not sell any treasury shares.
The Subject to company law and the articles of association, the Directors Companys articles of association provide that on a show of hands, may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authority every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting to Committees and day-to-day management and decision-making to of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is individual Executive Directors.
The articles of association are available present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of upon request and are displayed on our website at rentokil-initial.
Re-election of Directors and service contracts The articles do not contain special control rights or restrictions In accordance with the articles of association, Directors can be appointed on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no by the Board and must be subsequently elected by shareholders in requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds general meeting.
In accordance with the articles of association and the securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, Directors submit of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements themselves for re-election annually.
Directors can be removed, and their between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the replacements appointed, by shareholders in general meeting.
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Information on our Board of Directors, including full biographical details, The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another and changes during 2018, can be found in the Corporate Governance corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements which Report on pages 58 and 59.
All Board members will seek re-election may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company.
at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM, other than John McAdam and Richard Burrows who will be stepping down at the conclusion of the Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for AGM, and Richard Solomons who will stand for election for the first time.
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,248,000 was obtained at the AGM on 9 May 2018.
The authority remains in force and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2019 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
