136 Notes to the Financial Statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and reportable business unit.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on the higher of value-in-use calculations using cash flow projections and fair value less costs to sell if appropriate.
The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by management, which are prepared as part of the Groups normal planning process.
Cash flows for years two to five use managements expectation of sales growth, operating costs and margin, based on past experience and expectations regarding future performance and profitability for each CGU.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates.
It can be demonstrated that there is material headroom in the recoverable amount of the CGU goodwill balances based on the assumptions made, and there is not considered to be any reasonably possible scenario under which material impairment could be expected to occur based on the testing performed.
The equivalent pre-tax discount rates range from 7.4% to 18.6% across the Group 2017: 8.4% to 19.7%.
Key assumptions used by the US Pest Control CGU were a long-term growth rate of 1.4% 2017: 2.0% and a post-tax discount rate of 6.5% 2017: 8%.
The negative growth rate in the North America region is due to the Puerto Rico business.
The growth rates used by individual CGUs are based on the long-term growth rates predicted for the relevant sector and country in which a business operates.
They do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for that industry or country.
The pre-tax discount rates are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for specific risks relating to the relevant sector and country.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation with the exception of freehold land and assets under construction which are not depreciated.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
