Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 117 Notes to the Financial Statements A.
Revenue recognition and operating segments Revenue recognition Revenue represents the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled.
All revenue is considered revenue from contracts with customers as defined by IFRS 15, including non-contract service revenue job work and sale of goods.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of goods or services in line with identifiable performance obligations.
In the majority of cases the Group considers that the contracts it enters into are contracts for bundled services which are accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Accordingly the majority of revenue across the Group is recognised evenly over the course of the contract because this reflects the timing of the provision of the service.
Job work is short-term contact revenue whereby the period of service is less typically less than one month in duration.
The performance obligations linked to this revenue type are individual to each job due to their nature with revenue being recognised on a percentage of completion basis.
Where consumables are supplied separately from the service contract, revenue is recognised at the point the goods transfer.
The transaction price reported for all contracts is the price agreed in the contract and there are no material elements of variable consideration, financing component or non-cash consideration.
The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations because the Group has a right to consideration from customers in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the performance obligations completed to date.
Disaggregation of revenue into category, region and major type of revenue stream is shown below under Segment reporting and in Section E on pages 151 and 152.
Contract costs Contract costs are mainly incremental costs of obtaining contracts primarily sales commissions, and to a lesser extent costs to fulfil contracts which are not within the scope of other standards mainly incremental costs of putting resources in place to fulfil contracts.
It is anticipated that these costs are recoverable over the life of the contract to which they relate.
Accordingly the Group capitalises them as contract costs and amortises them over the expected life of the contracts.
The expected length of contracts across the Group and associated amortisation periods are between three and six years.
The contract costs recognised in the balance sheet at the period end amounted to 60.9m.
The amount of amortisation recognised in the period was 21.9m and impairment losses were nil.
Applying the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15, the Group recognises the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortisation period of the assets that the Group otherwise would have recognised is one year or less.
Contract assets Contract assets relate to the Groups right to consideration for performance obligations satisfied but where the customer has yet to be invoiced.
The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional.
This usually occurs when the Group issues an invoice to the customer.
All opening balances have been invoiced in the year.
Contract liabilities Contract liabilities relate to advance consideration received from customers where the performance obligations have yet to be satisfied.
All opening balances have subsequently been satisfied in the year.
In most business categories where revenue is recognised over time customers are invoiced in advance or simultaneously with performance obligations being satisfied.
Segment reporting Segmental information has been presented in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Reporting segments reflect the internal management organisation and reporting structures.
Each segment is headed by a Regional Managing Director who reports directly to the Chief Executive and is a member of the Groups Executive Leadership Team responsible for the review of Group performance.
The operating businesses within each segment report to the Regional Managing Directors.
Given the international nature of the Group foreign exchange movements can have a significant impact on regional performance.
As a result the segmental analysis is presented at constant exchange rates.
Restructuring costs and central and regional costs are presented at a Group level asthey are not targeted or managed at reportable segment level.
The basis of presentation is consistent with the information reviewed by internal management.
Revenue and profit are from Ongoing operations which is defined and reconciled tothenearest equivalent GAAP measure in Section E on page 150.
Disposed business for 2017 is restated for businesses disposed in 2018.
Includes revenue of 13.9m 2017: 8.8m from product sales by the Group to CWS-boco International GmbH.
Prior to 30th June 2017, this revenue was classified as intergroup revenue and eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue and operating profit relate to the main groups of business category and activity, as described on page 17: Pest Control, Hygiene and Protect & Enhance.
Central and regional overheads represent corporate expenses that are not directly attributable to any reportable segment.
Revenue at actual exchange rates AER from external customers attributed to the UK amounted to 275.6m 2017: 225.0m, with overseas countries accounting for the balance of 2,196.7m 2017: 2,187.3m.
The only countries accounting for more than 10% of revenue from external customers are USA, totalling 889.6m 2017: 804.6m, France, totalling 305.0m 2017: 348.7m, and United Kingdom, totalling 275.6m 2017: 225.0m.
No customer accounts for more than 10% of total revenue.
One-off items operating primarily relates to the acquisition and integration costs of Cannon Hygiene Services acquired in January 2018 and the ongoing acquisition programme in North America.
Analysis of Ongoing Revenue and Ongoing Operating Profit by business category Ongoing Ongoing Ongoing Ongoing Operating Operating Revenue Revenue profit profit 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Pest Control 1,571.9 1,396.6 277.0 252.0 Hygiene 536.7 424.3 90.2 75.3 Protect & Enhance 384.4 381.6 45.1 40.8 Central and regional overheads 71.4 66.2 Restructuring costs 7.3 7.3 Ongoing operations at constant exchange rates 2,493.0 2,202.5 333.6 294.6 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
