112 Notes to the Financial Statements General accounting policies Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by the European Union as at 31 December 2018.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with effect from 1 January 2018 and this is the first set of the Groups annual financial statements in which those standards are reflected.
Changes to significant accounting policies are described on pages 114 to 116.
The Group uses a number of non-GAAP measures to present the financial performance of the business that are not defined under IFRS.
An explanation of these Alternative Performance Measures APMs, along with reconciliation to the nearest equivalent IFRS measure, can be found in Section E of these notes on pages 149 to 153.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements see the Directors Report on page 169.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when i it has power over the entity: ii is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity: and iii has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls a subsidiary if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of these three elements of control.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances, and gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Where the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the assets and liabilities are derecognised along with any related non-controlling interest and other components of equity.
Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost.
Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests which may cause the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
Consideration in excess of net identifiable assets acquired in respect of non-controlling interests in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken directly to reserves.
b Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence over the financial and operating policies, but not control.
Significant influence is usually presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentation currency.
b Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: ii inc ome and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and iii al l resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments or deemed to be quasi-equity, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at period-end exchange rates.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
