162 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts 1.
Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The amendments to FRS 101 2014 15 Cycle issued in July 2017 have been applied.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivatives.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The results of Rentokil Initial plc are included in the consolidated financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc which are presented on pages 108 to 159.
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101, all of which have equivalent disclosures included in the consolidated financial statements: The requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The requirements of paragraphs 62, B64 d, B64 e, B64 g, B64 h, B64 j to B64 m, B64 n ii, B64 o ii, B64 p, B64 q ii, B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment: iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38 Intangible Assets: iv paragraphs 76 and 79 d of IAS 40 Investment Property: and v paragraph 50 of IAS 41 Agriculture The requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 39 c and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member The requirements of paragraphs 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 2.
Principal accounting policies Judgement and key areas of estimation The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires the Companys Directors to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas where significant judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements and their effect are disclosed in Note 3 and the consolidated financial statements.
Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In the opinion of the Directors the value of such investments are not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost where hedge accounting is not applied : any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date under its committed bank credit facility.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position differs from its tax base, except for differences arising on: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit: and investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it isprobable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax assets liabilities are settled recovered.
Financial instruments and risk management The Company policy in respect of financial instruments and risk management is disclosed in the Financing section of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosures have been made on financial instruments as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
