172 Glossary AER Actual exchange rates AGM Annual General Meeting APM Alternative Performance Measure Benelux Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg Board The Board of Directors of Rentokil Initial plc B2B Business to business CAGR Compound annual growth rate CER Constant exchange rate CGU Cash-generating unit CMA UK Competition & Markets Authority Company Rentokil Initial plc CVC Customer Voice Counts CWS-boco CWS-boco International GmbH CWS Italy Initial Italia SpA formerly CWS-boco Italia SpA Director A Director of Rentokil Initial plc EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ELT Executive Leadership Team EMTN Euro Medium-Term Note ETR Effective tax rate EPS Earnings per share FRC Financial Reporting Council FRS Financial Reporting Standards GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GDPR EU General Data Protection Regulation Group Rentokil Initial plc and its subsidiaries Growth and Emerging markets Rentokil Initial defined markets for Pest Control operations see pages 30 and 31 H&S Health and safety Haniel Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association IRR Internal rate of return JV Joint venture KPI Key performance indicator LTA Lost time accident LTIP Long-term incentive plans M&A Mergers and acquisitions MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Turkey NED Non-Executive Director NPS Net Promoter Score Parent Company Rentokil Initial plc PSP Rentokil Initial plc Performance Share Plan RCF Revolving credit facility R&D Research and development RIPS Rentokil Initial 2015 Pension Scheme S&P Standard & Poors SHE Safety, health and environment SID Senior Independent Director SLF Senior Leadership Forum TSR Total shareholder return UK & RoW United Kingdom and Rest of World VDCI Vector Disease Control International LLC WDL Working days lost Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 About us Rentokil Initial is a global leader in the provision of route-based services which protect people and enhance lives.
Our services include Pest Control, Hygiene and Workwear, as well as a range ofother smaller specialist services including Plants, Medical Services, Property Care and Specialist Hygiene.
We protect people from the dangers of pest-borne disease and therisks of poor hygiene.
We enhance lives with services that protect the health and wellbeing of people, and the reputation ofour customers brands.
Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial pest control company andour engine for growth.
Initial Hygiene is a global leader in hygiene services.
We have over 1,800 local service teams across the world covering over 90% of global GDP in over 90 of the worlds 100 largest cities across North America, Europe, UK & Rest of World, Asia andthe Pacific.
Operating in 75 countries, approximately 90% of our revenues are derived outside of the UK.
We have over a million customers to service from the largest multinational pharmaceutical, industrial and food production companies to local shops, restaurants and homes.
With high levelsofcustomer service and retention rates, we continue to buildour portfolio.
Find out more at rentokil-initial.
com Cautionary statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the Groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the Companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this 2018 Annual Report relating to the Company or its share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this 2018 Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report is printed on Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, Design Magno Satin paper and has been ISO14001 and FSC certified.
co. uk independently certified on behalf Print of the Forest Stewardship Council Principal Colour Ltd FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 rentokil-initial.
