Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary Trading business Represents the performance of the business before exceptional items and is considered as the key metrics for shareholders to evaluate and compare the performance of the business from period to period.
Exceptional items Those items that, by virtue of their unusual nature or size, warrant separate additional disclosure in the financial statements in order to fully understand the performance of the Group.
Like-for-like sales This measure provides an indicator of the underlying performance of our existing restaurants.
There is no accounting standard or consistent definition of like-for-like sales across the industry.
Group like-for-like sales are calculated by comparing the performance of all mature sites in the current period versus the comparable period in the prior year.
Sites that are closed, disposed or disrupted during a financial year are excluded from the like-for-like sales calculation.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Outlet EBITDA EBITDA directly attributable to individual sites and therefore excluding corporate and central costs.
Adjusted EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Calculated by taking the Trading business operating profit and adding back depreciation and amortisation.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as the net of the long-term borrowings and finance lease obligations less cash and cash equivalents.
Free cash flow EBITDA less working capital and non-cash movements excluding exceptional items, tax payments, interest payments and maintenance capital expenditure.
Adjusted operating profit Earnings before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Adjusted EPS Calculated by taking the profit after tax of the business pre-exceptional items divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted diluted EPS Calculated by taking the profit after tax of the business pre-exceptional items divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, including the effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Adjusted profit before tax Calculated by taking the profit before tax of the business pre-exceptional items.
Adjusted tax Calculated by taking the tax of the business pre-exceptional items.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 121 Shareholder information Directors Registrar Debbie Hewitt Equiniti Limited Non-executive Chairman Aspect House Spencer Road Andy McCue Lancing Chief Executive Officer West Sussex BN99 6DA 0371 384 2426 Kirk Davis from 5 February 2018 Chief Financial Officer Auditor Ernst & Young LLP Simon Cloke 1 More London Place Senior independent non-executive Director London SE1 2AF Graham Clemett Solicitors Independent non-executive Director Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row Mike Tye London EC1Y 8YY Independent non-executive Director Goodman Derrick LLP Allan Leighton from 24 December 2018 10 St Bride Street Independent non-executive Director London EC4A 4AD Company Secretary Brokers Jean-Paul Rabin from 16 January 2019 JPMorganCazenove 25 Bank Street Head office London E14 5JP and address for all correspondence 5-7 Marshalsea Road Numis Securities Limited London SE1 1EP The London Stock Exchange Building One Paternoster Square Telephone number London EC4M 7LT 020 3117 5001 Annual General Meeting Company number Friday 17 May 2019 SC030343 Proposed final dividend 2018 Registered office Announcement 15 March 2019 1 George Square Ex-dividend 6 June 2019 Glasgow G2 1AL Record date 7 June 2019 Payment date 5 July 2019 122 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 The paper used in this report is 100% recycled and FSC certified.
Printed in the UK using vegetable based inks which have lower VOC emissions Volatile Organic Compounds, are derived from renewable sources and less hazardous than oil-based inks.
The printer is ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
Under the framework of ISO 14001 a structured approach is taken by the company to measure, improve and audit their environmental status on an ongoing basis.
FSC ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com The Restaurant Group plc 5-7 Marshalsea Road London SE1 1EP Tel: 020 3117 5001 www.
