Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes forming part of the financial statements 1 General information Rightmove plc the Company is a public limited company registered in England Company no.
6426485 domiciled in the United Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2018 comprise the Company and its interest in its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group as at and for the year ended 31 December 2018 are available upon request to the Company Secretary from the Companys registered office at 2 Caldecotte Lake Business Park, Caldecotte Lake Drive, Caldecotte, Milton Keynes, MK7 8LE or are available on the corporate website at plc.
Statement of compliance The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Board of directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 1 March 2019.
Basis of preparation On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
This is the first set of the Groups full financial statements where IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 have been applied.
Changes to significant accounting policies are described in Note 2.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has existing rights that give it the ability to direct the relevant activities of an entity and has the ability to affect the returns the Group will receive as a result of its involvement with the entity.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
During the year the Group incorporated two new entities, Rightmove Rent Services Limited and Rightmove Property Services Limited, with further details of the investments set out in Note 15.
The results of these entities have been consolidated in these Group financial statements, with no significant impact for the financial year.
Going concern Throughout 2018, the Group was debt free and has continued to generate significant cash and has an overall positive net asset position.
The Group also had 4,090,000 of money market deposits 2017: 4,045,000.
During the year 168,505,000 2017: 140,420,000 of cash was returned to shareholders via dividends and discretionary share buybacks.
The Group agreed to extend a 12 month agreement with Barclays Bank plc for a 10,000,000 committed revolving loan facility on 13 February 2018.
This agreement was extended for a further year on 15 January 2019 and will expire on 12 February 2020.
No amount was drawn under the facility in either year.
The Board of directors is confident that with the existing cash resources and banking facilities in place, coupled with the strength of the underlying business model, the Group and the Company will remain cash positive and will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period of 12 months from the date of signing these accounts.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 19 to 23.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 97 Notes continued 1 General information continued Capital structure subdivision of shares On 31 August 2018 the ordinary shares of 1 pence each in the capital of the Company were subdivided into ten ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of the Company the New Ordinary Shares : the purpose being to make the Companys shares more accessible to smaller investors, including Rightmove employees.
Each New Ordinary Share has the rights and entitlements as before and continues to be subject to the restrictions set out in the articles of association of the Company.
Group disclosures in relation to earnings per share, dividends, capital and reserves and share-based payments have been updated accordingly.
Judgements and estimates The preparation of the consolidated and Company financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods, if applicable.
Management has determined that there are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty or critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated and Company financial statements.
Alternative performance measures In the analysis of the Groups financial performance certain information disclosed in the financial statements may be prepared on a non-GAAP basis or has been derived from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure.
These measures are reported in line with how financial information is analysed by management.
The key alternative performance measures presented by the Group are: Underlying operating profit which is defined as operating profit before share-based payments and National Insurance NI on share-based incentives: and Underlying basic earnings per share EPS which is defined as profit for the year before share-based payments and National Insurance on share-based incentives, with no related adjustment for tax, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the year.
The directors believe that these alternative performance measures provide a more appropriate measure of the Groups business performance as share-based payments are a significant non-cash charge and are driven by a valuation model, and NI on sharebased incentives is driven by reference to the Rightmove plc share price and so subject to volatility, rather than reflecting operational activity.
The directors therefore consider underlying operating profit to be the most appropriate indicator of the performance of the business and year-on-year trends.
For simplicity no adjustment for tax is made within the calculation of underlying basic EPS.
The alternative performance measures are designed to increase comparability of the Groups financial performance year-on-year.
2 Significant accounting policies Changes in significant account policies The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases with effect from 1 January 2018 with IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 having a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaced IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method, with the effect of initially applying this standard recognised at the date of initial application i. e. 1 January 2018.
Accordingly, the information presented for 2017 has not been restated i. e. it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18 and related interpretations.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Under IAS 18 revenue was recognised either over time where there was continuing service provided by Rightmove to the customer or at the point in time when the risks and rewards of ownership transferred to the customer.
Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised when performance obligations are satisfied.
For the Group the transfer of control under IFRS 15 and satisfaction of performance obligations remains consistent with the transfer of risks and rewards to the customer under IAS 18.
Consequently, there were no profit or loss impacting adjustments required on application of IFRS 15.
On adoption of IFRS 15 the Group no longer recognises a trade receivable and a corresponding deferred income balance for amounts billed in advance for services which have not yet been provided.
IFRS 15 classifies this as a contract liability, as the Group has not yet delivered the promised services to its customer, and a contract asset.
IFRS 15 requires the offset of contract assets and contract liabilities within the same contract.
Overall, this has resulted in no adjustment at the net asset level.
Accounting policy for revenue in 2018 Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and is recognised when a customer obtains control of the services.
Revenue principally represents the amounts receivable from customers in respect of membership of the Rightmove platforms.
Rightmove also provides non-property advertising services, including Data Services and third party advertising.
Revenue is recognised as services are provided to customers.
Contract assets primarily relate to the Groups rights to consideration for services provided but not invoiced at the reporting date.
Contract assets are transferred to receivables when invoiced and the rights have become unconditional.
Contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from Estate Agency, Overseas and Commercial customers, for which revenue is recognised as or when the services are provided.
The table below covers the different types of products and services offered to customers along with the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations: Type of product service: Property products Nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations For membership listing services customers pay monthly subscriptions to list their properties on the Rightmove platforms.
Control is obtained by customers across the life of the contract as their properties are continuously listed on the different platforms.
The continuous listing of properties is a distinct performance obligation for each customer.
Contracts for these services are per branch location or branch equivalent for Agency and per development for New Homes.
They vary in length from one month to five years, but are typically for periods of six to 12 months.
Agency, Overseas and Commercial services are typically billed in advance and New Homes developers are billed monthly in arrears.
For additional advertising products customers have the option to enhance their property listings and presence on Rightmove through additional advertising products.
Each additional advertising product is a distinct performance obligation.
For products that provide enhanced brand exposure or property exposure across the life of the product, control is passed to the customer over time.
Revenue is only recognised at a point in time for additional advertising products where the customer does not receive the benefit until they choose to apply the product.
Additional advertising products are principally billed on a monthly subscription basis in line with core listing services, however certain products are billed on an individual charge basis.
Contract modifications occur on a regular basis as customers add or remove additional advertising products from their contracts.
Each contract modification is treated as a separate performance obligation.
Following a contract modification, the customer is billed in line with the delivery of the remaining performance obligations.
A receivable is recognised when the Groups right to consideration is only conditional on the passage of time.
Discounted services may be offered to customers as part of membership or package offers.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 99 Notes continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Type of product service: Non-property products Nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations Data Services revenue relates to fees generated for data and valuation services under a variety of contractual arrangements, with each service being a separate performance obligation.
Control is obtained by customers either across the life of the contract where customers are licensed to use Rightmoves property tools or at a point in time when a one-off data service is provided.
Discounted services may be offered to customers and are taken into consideration in the transaction price for each performance obligation.
Third party advertising revenue represents amounts paid in respect of non-property advertising on the Rightmove platforms and control is obtained by customers across the life of the contract as their advertising is displayed on the different platforms.
Some of the Groups arrangements with third parties need to be considered to determine if the Group acts as a principal or an agent in providing the services to the customer.
On evaluation of a number of indicators it is appropriate for the Group to be treated as the agent so revenue is recognised at a net amount reflecting the margin earned.
A receivable is recognised only when the Groups right to consideration is only conditional on the passage of time.
Accounting policy for revenue in 2017 Revenue principally represents the amounts receivable from customers in respect of membership of the Rightmove platforms.
Agency, New Homes, Overseas and Commercial revenue comprises subscriptions for core listing fees and amounts paid for additional advertising products.
Revenue is recognised over the period of the contract or as advertising products are used.
Membership offers take place from time to time and may include discounted products and free periods.
These are recognised on a monthly basis over the contract term.
Agency, Overseas and Commercial services are typically billed in advance with revenue deferred until the service commencement date.
New Homes developers are billed monthly in arrears.
Where invoices are raised on other than a monthly basis, the amounts are recognised as deferred or accrued revenue and released to the profit or loss on a monthly basis in line with the provision of services as stipulated in the contract terms.
Data Services revenue relates to fees generated for data and valuation services under a variety of contractual arrangements.
Revenue is recognised when the service has been provided.
Third party advertising revenue represents amounts paid in respect of non-property advertising on the Rightmove platforms and is recognised in the month in which the service is provided.
Data Services, third party advertising and Consumer Services revenue is typically billed in arrears.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016, and was endorsed by the EU in 2017.
IFRS 16 replaces existing leases guidance including IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group has decided to early adopt this standard using the modified retrospective approach with a date of initial application to the Group of 1 January 2018.
Comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under IAS 17.
The adoption of IFRS 16 had a material impact on the Groups financial statements with the recognition of new right of use assets and lease liabilities on the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The nature of expenses related to those leases has also changed as the straight-line operating lease expense has been replaced with a depreciation charge for right of use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities.
On adoption there was no impact to the opening equity position.
Accounting policy for leases in 2018 At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether or not a contract is, or contains, a lease.
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Forcontracts entered into before 1 January 2018, the Group determined whether the arrangement was or contained a lease based on the assessment of whether fulfilment of the arrangement was dependent on the use of a specific asset and the arrangement had conveyed a right to use the asset.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued When a lease is recognised in a contract the Group recognises a right of use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
The right of use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease prepayments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The right of use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right of use asset or the end of the lease term.
The estimated useful lives of right of use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment.
In addition, the right of use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
The weighted average incremental borrowing rate used to measure the lease liability at initial application was 2.3%.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
It is re-measured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
The Group presents right of use assets in property, plant and equipment and leased liabilities in lease liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position.
The Group has elected not to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases of machinery that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets, including IT equipment.
The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Accounting policy for leases in 2017 Operating lease rentals are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The value of any lease incentive received, for example a rent-free period, is deferred and released on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items.
This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and simplifies the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes.
Comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under IAS 39.
There is no impact on the profit or loss or statement of financial position from the adoption of IFRS 9.
Accounting policy for financial instruments in 2018 IFRS 9 eliminates the previous IAS 39 category for financial assets of loans and receivables.
Under IFRS 9, on initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at: amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss or fair value through other comprehensive income.
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following conditions: it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows: and its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Under IFRS 9 trade receivables, without a significant financing component, are classified and held at amortised cost, being initially measured at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment loss.
The Group has elected to measure loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses.
Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
Credit losses are measured as the present value of all cash shortfalls i. e. the difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating expected credit losses, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Groups historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward looking information.
The Group performs the calculation of expected credit losses separately for each customer group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 101 Notes continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued The Group assumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly if it is more than 30 days past due.
The Group assesses whether a financial asset is in default on a case by case basis when it becomes probable that the customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when the Group has no reasonable expectations of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof.
For all customers, the Group individually makes an assessment with respect to the timing and amount of write-off based on whether there is a reasonable expectation of recovery.
The Group expects no significant recovery from the amount written off.
However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Groups procedures for recovery of amounts due.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial assets carried at amortised cost are credit-impaired.
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and expected credit losses for trade receivables as at 1January 2018.
Gross carrying Loss Weighted-average amount allowance loss rate 000 000 Credit-impaired Current 0.0% 10,055 4 No Past due 130 days 3.7% 2,750 101 No Past due 3160 days 18.8% 659 124 No Past due 6190 days 55.4% 336 186 No More than 91 days past due 16.8% 286 48 No 14,086 463 The loss allowance as a percentage of gross carrying amount within the category 6190 days is higher than other categories due to a specific provision for one customer.
IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities.
Theadoption of IFRS 9 has not had a significant effect on the Groups accounting policies related to financial liabilities.
Accounting policy for financial instruments in 2017 Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment loss.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the receivables original terms.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Money market deposits are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
They represent deposits with a maturity of over three months.
Inter-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from inter-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Impact of adoption of IFRS 9, 15 and 16 on the financial statements The following statements summarise the impacts of adopting IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 on the Groups Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as at and for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Adoption of IFRS 9 had no impact on any of the financial statements and adoption of IFRS15 had no impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts Year ended 31 December 2018 IFRS 16 without 000 Note As reported adjustments adoption Revenue 4, 5 267,821 267,821 Administrative expenses 69,231 143 69,374 Underlying operating profit 203,329 143 203,186 Share-based payments 25 4,320 4,320 NI on share-based incentives 25 419 419 Operating profit 198,590 143 198,447 Financial income 8 171 171 Financial expenses 9 491 302 189 Net financial expenses 320 302 18 Profit before tax 198,270 159 198,429 Income tax expense 10 37,815 28 37,843 Profit for the year being total comprehensive income 160,455 131 160,586 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 160,455 131 160,586 Rightmove plc annual report 2018 103 Notes continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impact on the consolidated statement of financial position Amounts 31 December 2018 without 000 Note As reported IFRS 15 IFRS 16 adoption Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 13 15,203 12,331 2,872 Intangible assets 14 2,873 2,873 Deferred tax assets 16 2,798 28 2,770 Total non-current assets 20,874 12,359 8,515 Current assets Trade and other receivables 17 22,479 17,961 329 40,769 Contract assets 5 427 427 Money market deposits 18 4,090 4,090 Cash and cash equivalents 18 15,847 15,847 Total current assets 42,843 17,534 329 60,706 Total assets 63,717 17,534 12,030 69,221 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 19 18,081 19,680 897 38,658 Lease liabilities 21 1,213 1,213 Contract liabilities 5 2,146 2,146 Income tax payable 16,753 16,753 Provisions 22 671 671 Total current liabilities 38,864 17,534 316 56,082 Non-current liabilities Lease liabilities 21 11,845 11,845 Provisions 22 424 424 Total non-current liabilities 12,269 11,845 424 Total liabilities 51,133 17,534 12,161 56,506 Net assets 12,584 131 12,715 Equity Share capital 23 908 908 Other reserves 524 524 Retained earnings 11,152 131 11,283 Total equity attributable to the equity holders of the Parent 12,584 131 12,715 104 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impact on the consolidated statement of cash flows Amounts Year ended 31 December 2018 without 000 Note As reported IFRS 15 IFRS 16 adoption Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 160,455 131 160,586 Adjustments for: Depreciation charges 13 3,307 1,863 1,444 Amortisation charges 14 545 545 Financial income 8 171 171 Financial expenses 9 491 302 189 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 7 7 Share-based payments 25 4,320 4,320 Income tax expense 10 37,815 28 37,843 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 206,769 2,006 204,763 Increase in trade and other receivables 5,344 261 61 5,666 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 1,069 287 535 247 Increase in provisions 22 46 46 Increase decrease in contract assets 5 261 261 Increase decrease in contract liabilities 5 287 287 Cash generated from operating activities 200,428 1,532 198,896 Financial expenses paid 190 190 Income taxes paid 32,798 32,798 Net cash from operating activities 167,440 1,532 165,908 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 118 118 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 13 1,614 1,614 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 Acquisition of intangible assets 14 128 128 Net cash used in investing activities 1,624 1,624 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 12 54,977 54,977 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 23 113,528 113,528 Purchase of own shares for share incentive plans 24 685 685 Share related expenses 23 778 778 Payment of lease liabilities 21 1,532 1,532 Proceeds on exercise of share-based incentives 601 601 Net cash used in financing activities 170,899 1,532 169,367 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 5,083 5,083 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 20,930 20,930 Cash and cash equivalents at period end 18 15,847 15,847 Rightmove plc annual report 2018 105 Notes continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued The following accounting policies applied by the Group in these consolidated financial statements are the same as those applied by the Group in its consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2017. a Investments Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost less any provision for impairment in the parent Company financial statements.
b Intangible assets i Goodwill Good will arising on a business combination represents the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired and is included in intangible assets.
In r espect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business that occurred prior to 1January 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS statement of financial position at 1 January 2004.
Good will is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
This applies to all goodwill arising both before and after 1 January 2004. ii Research and development T he Group undertakes research and development expenditure in view of developing new products and improving the existing property platforms.
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Expendit ure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of a new product or substantially enhanced website, is capitalised if the new product or the enhanced website is technically and commercially feasible, the Group has sufficient resources to complete development, future economic benefits are probable and the Group can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
Capitalised costs are held as an asset in progress until such point that the asset is brought into use, at which point it is transferred to the appropriate intangible asset category and amortisation is charged.
T he expenditure capitalised includes subcontractors and direct labour.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed when incurred.
iii Computer software and licences C omputer software and externally acquired software licences are capitalised and stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for use.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of the computer software or licence by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life as follows: Computer software 20.0% 33.3% per annum Software licences 20.0% 33.3% per annum iv Market appraisal algorithm T he market appraisal algorithm identified on the acquisition of the Outside View Analytics Ltd is valued using the reproduction cost method based on market rate salaries.
Amortisation is expensed in the profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life as follows: Market appraisal algorithm 33.3% per annum 106 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued c Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Capitalised costs are held as an asset in progress until such point that the asset is brought into use, at which point it is transferred to the appropriate property, plant and equipment category and depreciation is charged.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 20.0% per annum Computer equipment 20.0% 33.3% per annum Leasehold improvements and leased assets remaining life of the lease d Impairment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of non-financial assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they might be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Investments are assessed for possible impairment when there is an indication that the fair value of the investments may be below the Companys carrying value.
When such a condition is deemed to be other than temporary, the carrying value of the investment is written down to its fair value and the amount written off is included in profit or loss.
In making the determination as to whether a decline is other than temporary, the Company considers such factors as the duration and extent of the decline, the investees financial performance and the Companys ability and intention to retain its investment for a period that will be sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the investments market value.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
f Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
g Employee benefits i Pensions T he Group provides access to a stakeholder pension scheme a defined contribution pension plan into which employees may elect to contribute via salary exchange.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are incurred.
ii Employee share schemes T he Group provides share-based incentive plans allowing executive directors and other employees to acquire shares in the Company.
An expense is recognised in profit or loss, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to acquire equity settled share-based incentives.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 107 Notes continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Fair value at the gr ant date is measured using either the Monte Carlo or Black Scholes pricing model as is most appropriate for each scheme.
Measurement inputs include share price on measurement date, exercise price of the instrument, expected volatility based on weighted average historic volatility adjusted for changes expected due to publicly available information, weighted average expected life of the instruments based on historical experience and general option behaviour, expected dividends, and risk-free interest rates based on government bonds.
Service and non-market performance conditions attached to the awards are not taken into account in determining the fair value.
For shar e-based incentive awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based incentives is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
When either the employee or the Company chooses not to meet the non-vesting condition, the failure to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation and the cost that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
iii Own shares held by The Rightmove Employees Share Trust EBT T he EBT is treated as an agent of Rightmove Group Limited, and as such EBT transactions are treated as being those of Rightmove Group Limited and are therefore reflected in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In particular, at a consolidated level, the EBTs purchases of shares in the Company are charged directly to equity.
iv Own shares held by The Rightmove Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP T he SIP is treated as an agent of Rightmove plc, and as such SIP transactions are treated as being those of Rightmove plc and are therefore reflected in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In particular, at a consolidated level, the SIPs purchases of shares in the Company are charged directly to equity.
v National Insurance NI on share-based incentives Emplo yers NI is accrued, where applicable, at a rate of 13.8%, which management expects to be the prevailing rate when share-based incentives are exercised.
In the case of share options, it is provided on the difference between the share price at the reporting date and the average exercise price of share options.
In the case of nil cost performance shares and deferred shares, it is provided based on the share price at the reporting date.
h Treasury shares and shares purchased for cancellation When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are either held in treasury or cancelled.
i Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Groups Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available.
j Financial income and expenses Financial income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and money market deposits and dividend income.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised on the date that the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Financial expenses comprise banking facility fees and bank charges and the unwinding of the discount on provisions and leaseliabilities.
k Taxation Income tax on the results for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period net of any charge or credit posted directly to equity, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
In accordance with IAS 12, the Group policy in relation to the recognition of deferred tax on share-based incentives is to include the income tax effect of the tax deduction in profit or loss to the value of the income tax charge on the cumulative IFRS 2 charge.
The remainder of the income tax effect of the tax deduction is recognised in equity.
l Dividends Dividends unpaid at the reporting date are only recognised as a liability and deduction to equity at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
m Earnings per share EPS The Group presents basic, diluted and underlying basic and diluted EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for own shares held.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive shares.
The Groups potential dilutive instruments are in respect of share-based incentives granted to employees, which will be settled by ordinary shares held by the EBT, the SIP and shares held in treasury.
The calculation of underlying basic and diluted EPS is disclosed in Note 11.
3 Risk and capital management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk This note presents information about the Group and Companys exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The primary method by which risks are monitored and managed by the Group is through the monthly Executive Management Committee, where any significant new risks or change in status to existing risks will be discussed and actions taken as appropriate.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups internal controls and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 109 Notes continued 3 Risk and capital management continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or banking institution fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Group provides credit to customers in the normal course of business.
The Group provides its services to a wide range of customers in the UK and overseas and therefore believes it has no material concentration of credit risk.
More than 88.0% 2017: 88.0% of the Groups Agency and New Homes customers pay via monthly direct debit, minimising the risk of non-payment.
The Group establishes an expected credit loss that represents its estimate of losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
Further details of these are given in Note 26.
The Groups treasury policy is to monitor cash and deposit balances on a daily basis and to manage counterparty risk by ensuring that no more than 30,000,000 is held with any single institution.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulties in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash.
The Group and Companys approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups revenue model is largely subscription-based, which results in a regular level of cash conversion allowing it to service working capital requirements.
The Group and Company ensure that they have sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses excluding the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
Throughout the year, the Group typically had sufficient cash on demand to meet operational expenses, before financing activities, for a period of 138days 2017: 107 days.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange and interest rates will affect the Groups income.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
i Currency risk All of the Groups sales and more than 97.0% 2017: 95.0% of the Groups purchases are Sterling denominated, accordingly it has no significant currency risk.
ii Interest rate risk T he Group has interest bearing lease liabilities, although the interest on these is insignificant.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and money market deposit balances.
The Company has no interest bearing financial liabilities.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3 Risk and capital management continued Capital management The Board of directors policy is to maintain an efficient statement of financial position so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board of directors considers that the future working capital and capital expenditure requirements of the Group will continue to be low and accordingly return on capital measures are not key performance targets.
The Board of directors monitors the spread of the Companys shareholders as well as underlying basic EPS.
The Boards policy is to return surplus capital to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks.
i Dividend policy T he Board of directors has a progressive dividend policy and monitors the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders in relation to the growth in underlying basic EPS.
The Board has adopted this policy in order to align shareholder returns with the underlying growth achieved in the profitability of the Group.
T he capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the level of available retained earnings in the Company, after deduction of own shares held, and the cash resources of the Group.
The retained earnings of the Company, after deduction of own shares held, are 391,022,000 2017: 411,276,000 as set out in the Company statement of changes in shareholders equity on page 95.
The Group has cash and money market deposits at 31 December 2018 of 19,937,000 2017: 24,975,000, the majority of which are held by the principal operating subsidiary Rightmove Group Limited.
The Group is well positioned to fund its future dividends given the strong cash generative nature of the business and in 2018 cash generated from operating activities was 200,428,000 2017: 183,891,000 representing an operating cash conversion in excess of 100%.
ii Share buybacks T he Company purchases its own shares in the market: the timing of these purchases depends on available free cash flow and market conditions.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Groups processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure, and from external factors other than credit, market and liquidity risks such as those arising from legal and regulatory requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate behaviour.
Operational risks arise from all of the Groups operations.
The Groups objective is to manage operational risk so as to balance the avoidance of financial losses and damage to the Groups reputation with overall cost effectiveness and to avoid control procedures that restrict initiative and creativity.
The primary responsibility for the development and implementation of controls to address operational risk is assigned to senior management within each business unit.
This responsibility is supported by the development of overall Group standards for the management of operational risk in the following areas: requirements for appropriate segregation of duties, including the independent authorisation of transactions: requirements for the reconciliation and monitoring of transactions: compliance with regulatory and other legal requirements, including Financial Conduct Authority FCA requirements for the provision of the Rightmove Passport through Rightmove Rent Services Limited: documentation of controls and procedures: requirements for the periodic assessment of operational risks faced and the adequacy of controls and procedures to address the risks identified: requirements for reporting of operational losses and proposed remedial action: development and regular testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans: regular testing of the security of the IT systems and platforms, regular backups of key data and ongoing threat monitoring to protect against the risk of cyber attack: training and professional development and ongoing succession planning: and risk mitigation, including insurance where this is effective.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 111 Notes continued 4 Operating segments The Group determines and presents operating segments based on internal information that is provided to the Chief Executive Officer, who is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Groups reportable segments are as follows: The Agency segment which provides resale and lettings property advertising services on Rightmoves platforms: and The New Homes segment which provides property advertising services to new home developers and housing associations on Rightmoves platforms.
The Other segment which represents activities under the reportable segments threshold, comprises Overseas and Commercial property advertising services and non-property advertising services which include our Third Party advertising and Data Services.
Management monitors the business segments at a revenue and trade receivables level separately for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
All revenue in both years is derived from third parties and there is no inter-segment revenue.
Operating costs, financial income, financial expenses and income taxes in relation to the Agency, New Homes and the Other segment are managed on a centralised basis at a Rightmove Group Limited level and as there are no internal measures of individual segment profitability, relevant disclosures have been shown under the heading of Central in the table below.
The Company has no reportable segments.
2 Central operating profit does not include share-based payments charge of 4,320,000 2017: 4,836,000 and NI on share-based incentives charge of 419,000 2017: 1,228,000.
3 The only segment assets that are separately monitored by the Chief Operating Decision Maker relate to trade receivables net of any associated provision for impairment.
All other segment assets are reported on a centralised basis.
4 The adjustments column reflects the reclassification of credit balances in trade receivables and debit balances in trade payables made on consolidation for statutory accounts purposes.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 4 Operating segments continued Geographic information In presenting information on the basis of geography, revenue and assets are based on the geographical location of customers.
2018 2017 Revenue Trade receivables Revenue Trade receivables Group 000 000 000 000 UK 261,031 16,864 236,718 29,885 Rest of the world 6,790 73 6,555 408 267,821 16,937 243,273 30,293 5 Revenue The Groups operations and main revenue streams are those described in these annual financial statements.
The Groups revenue is derived from contracts with customers.
The nature and effect of initially applying IFRS 15 on the Groups financial statements is disclosed in Note 2.
Disaggregation of revenue In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by property and non-property advertising revenue.
The table also includes a reconciliation of the disaggregated revenue with the Groups reportable segments see Note 4.
Estate Agency New Homes Other Total Year ended 31 December 2018 000 000 000 000 Revenue stream Property products 201,022 46,167 12,300 259,489 Non-property products 8,332 8,332 201,022 46,167 20,632 267,821 Contract balances The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers.
31 December 2018 1 January 2018 Note 000 000 Receivables, which are included in trade and other receivables 17 17,655 14,086 Contract assets 427 166 Contract liabilities 2,146 2,724 The Group recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 15 as an adjustment to the opening balance at 1 January 2018.
The movement recognised in the cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2018 is the difference between the reported contract asset and contract liability balances at 31 December 2018 and the related balances on adoption of IFRS 15.
The contract assets primarily relate to the Groups rights to consideration for services provided but not invoiced at the reporting date.
The contract assets are transferred to receivables when invoiced and the rights have become unconditional.
The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from Agency, Overseas and Commercial customers, for which revenue is recognised as or when the services are provided.
The full amount of 2,724,000 recognised in contract liabilities at 1 January 2018 has been recognised as revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 113 Notes continued 6 Operating profit 2018 2017 000 000 Operating profit is stated after charging: Employee benefit expense 30,506 28,338 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,307 1,311 Amortisation of intangibles 545 473 Bad debt impairment charge 819 466 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 1,361 Other 547 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor in respect of the audit Audit of the Companys financial statements 19 19 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 132 122 Total audit remuneration 151 141 Fees payable to the Companys auditor in respect of non-audit related services Half-year review of the condensed financial statements 19 18 All other services 9 12 Total non-audit remuneration 28 30 7 Employee numbers and costs The average number of persons employed including executive directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2018 2017 Number of Number of employees employees Administration 461 449 Management 34 30 495 479 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2018 2017 000 000 Wages and salaries 26,087 24,249 Social security costs 3,280 3,168 Pension costs 1,139 921 30,506 28,338 Wages and salaries include 7,541,000 2017: 6,740,000 relating to the product development and technology teams: these teams spend a significant proportion of their time on research and development activities, including innovation of our product proposition and enhancements to the Rightmove platforms.
Social security costs relating to NI on share-based incentives are not included within this amount.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 8 Financial income 2018 2017 000 000 Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 126 110 Interest income on money market deposits 45 19 171 129 9 Financial expenses 2018 2017 000 000 Other interest payable 190 214 Interest unwind on lease liabilities 301 491 214 10 Income tax expense 2018 2017 000 000 Current tax expense Current year 37,744 34,582 Adjustment to current tax charge in respect of prior years 106 292 37,638 34,290 Deferred tax credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 50 170 Reduction in tax rate 127 177 170 Total income tax expense 37,815 34,120 Income tax credit recognised directly in equity 2018 2017 000 000 Current tax Share-based incentives 2,780 2,666 Deferred tax Share-based incentives refer Note 16 2,594 1,367 Reduction in tax rate 176 2,770 1,367 Total income tax credit recognised directly in equity 10 1,299 Total income tax recognised directly in equity in respect of the Company was a credit of 83,000 2017: 586,000 credit.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 115 Notes continued 10 Income tax expense continued Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Groups income tax expense for the year is higher 2017: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.0% 2017: 19.3%.
The differences are explained below: 2018 2017 000 000 Profit before tax 198,270 178,216 Current tax at 19.0% 2017: 19.3% 37,671 34,307 Reduction in tax rate 127 Non-deductible expenses 127 103 Share-based incentives 4 2 Adjustment to current tax charge in respect of prior years 106 292 37,815 34,120 The Groups consolidated effective tax rate on the profit of 198,270,000 for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 19.1% 2017:19.1%.
The difference between the standard rate and effective rate at 31 December 2018 of 0.1% 2017: 0.2% is primarily attributable to disallowable expenditure and a reduction in the rate at which the deferred tax asset is recognised of 0.1%, offset by an adjustment in respect of prior periods for research and development tax relief.
11 Earnings per share EPS Following the ten for one subdivision of the Companys ordinary share capital on 31 August 2018 refer Note 1, the 2017 comparatives have been restated in line with IAS 33.
Pence per share 000 Basic Diluted Year ended 31 December 2018 Earnings 160,455 17.80 17.69 Underlying earnings 165,194 18.33 18.22 Year ended 31 December 2017 Restated Earnings 144,096 15.67 15.51 Underlying earnings 150,160 16.33 16.17 Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic Restated 2018 2017 Number of shares Number of shares Issued ordinary shares at 1 January less ordinary shares held by the EBT and SIP Trust 929,347,400 950,968,410 Less own shares held in treasury at the beginning of the year 18,924,560 22,717,250 Effect of own shares purchased for cancellation 11,423,051 10,340,150 Effect of share-based incentives exercised 2,284,329 1,390,112 Effect of shares purchased by the EBT 7,768 9,110 Issued ordinary shares at 31 December less ordinary shares held by the EBT and SIP Trust 901,276,350 919,292,012 116 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11 Earnings per share EPS continued Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive shares.
Restated 2018 2017 Number of shares Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 901,276,350 919,292,012 Dilutive impact of share-based incentives outstanding 5,515,657 9,481,838 906,792,007 928,773,850 The average market value of the Groups shares for the purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share-based incentives was based on quoted market prices for the period during which the share-based incentives were outstanding.
Underlying EPS Underlying EPS is calculated by taking basic earnings for the year and adding back the charge for share-based payments and the charge for NI on share-based incentives but without any adjustment to the tax charge in respect of these items.
A reconciliation of the basic earnings for the year to the underlying earnings is presented below: 2018 2017 000 000 Basic earnings for the year 160,455 144,096 Share-based payments 4,320 4,836 NI on share-based incentives 419 1,228 Underlying earnings for the year 165,194 150,160 12 Dividends Following the ten for one subdivision of the Companys ordinary share capital on 31 August 2018 refer Note 1, the 2017 comparatives have been restated in order to aid comparability of information.
Dividends declared and paid by the Company were as follows: Restated 2018 2017 Pence per share 000 Pence per share 000 2016 final dividend paid 3.20 29,507 2017 interim dividend paid 2.20 20,104 2017 final dividend paid restated 3.60 32,559 2018 interim dividend paid 2.50 22,418 6.10 54,977 5.40 49,611 After the reporting date a final dividend of 4.0p 2017: 3.6p per qualifying ordinary share being 35,613,000 2017: 32,758,000 was proposed by the Board of directors.
The 2017 final dividend paid on 1 June 2018 was 32,559,000 being 199,000 lower than that reported in the 2017 Annual Report, which was due to a decrease in the ordinary shares entitled to a dividend between 31 December 2017 and the final dividend record date of 4 May 2018.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 117 Notes continued 12 Dividends continued The 2018 interim dividend paid on 3 November 2018 was 22,418,000 being 171,000 lower than that reported in the 2018 Half Year Report, which was due to a decrease in the ordinary shares entitled to a dividend between 30 June 2018 and the interim dividend record date of 2 November 2018.
The terms of the EBT provide that dividends payable on the ordinary shares held by the EBT are waived.
No provision was made for the final dividend in either year and there are no income tax consequences.
Further details of these leases are disclosed in Note 21.
The assets in progress consisted of capitalised costs relating to the leasehold improvements for the London office that were brought into use during the year.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 Property, plant and equipment continued Office equipment, Leasehold fixtures & Computer improveAssets in fittings equipment ments progress Total Group 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2017 829 7,053 451 8,333 Additions 232 906 430 187 1,755 Disposals 204 135 47 386 At 31 December 2017 857 7,824 834 187 9,702 Depreciation At 1 January 2017 678 5,101 266 6,045 Charge for year 88 1,159 64 1,311 Disposals 199 117 47 363 At 31 December 2017 567 6,143 283 6,993 Net book value At 31 December 2017 290 1,681 551 187 2,709 At 31 December 2016 151 1,952 185 2,288 The Company had no property, plant or equipment in either year.
Impairment testing for cash generating units containing goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups Agency segment which represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, which is not higher than the Groups operating segments as reported in Note 4.
The carrying value of 2,465,000 goodwill, comprises 732,000 of purchased goodwill arising pre-transition to IFRS and 1,733,000 on acquisition of Outside View.
Goodwill arising from the acquisition of the Outside View has been allocated to the Agency segment as the revenue expected from the Outside View product is attributable to Agency customers.
Given the low level of significance of the total goodwill balance and strong growth in the Agency segment revenue in the year, with no impairment indicators present, the disclosures as required by IAS 36 impairment of assets have not been made.
15 Investments The subsidiaries of the Group as at 31 December 2018 were as follows: Country of Company Nature of business incorporation Holding Class of shares Rightmove Group Limited Online property advertising England and Wales 100% Ordinary Rightmove Rent Services Limited Online rental services England and Wales 100% Ordinary Rightmove Property Services Limited Online rental services England and Wales 100% Ordinary The Outside View Analytics Ltd Property analytics services England and Wales 100% Ordinary Rightmove.
co. uk Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% Ordinary Rightmove Homes Information Packs Limited Dormant England and Wales 100% Ordinary All the above subsidiaries are included in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The registered office for all subsidiaries of the Group is 2 Caldecotte Lake Business Park, Caldecotte Lake Drive, Caldecotte, Milton Keynes, MK7 8LE.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Investments continued The shares in Rightmove Rent Services Limited, Rightmove Property Services Limited and The Outside View Analytics Ltd are attributed to the Company by virtue of their being held by Rightmove Group Limited.
2018 2017 Company 000 000 Investment in subsidiary undertakings At 1 January 548,827 546,202 Additions subsidiary share-based payments charge 2,651 2,625 At 31 December 551,478 548,827 In 2008, the Company became the holding company of Rightmove Group Limited formerly Rightmove plc, Company no.
03997679 and its subsidiaries pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under s425 of the Companies Act 1985 by way of a share-for-share exchange.
Following the Scheme of Arrangement, the Company underwent a court-approved capital reduction.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of the Group immediately after the Scheme were substantially the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of the Group immediately prior to the Scheme.
Following the capital reconstruction in 2008 all employees share-based incentives were transferred to the new holding company, Rightmove plc.
In addition certain directors contracts of employment were transferred from Rightmove Group Limited to Rightmove plc, whilst all other employees remained employed by Rightmove Group Limited.
Accordingly the share-based payments charge has been split between the Company and Rightmove Group Limited with 2,651,000 2017: 2,625,000 being recognised in the Company accounts as a capital contribution to its subsidiary.
16 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax is presented net on the balance sheet in so far as a right of offset exists.
The net deferred tax asset is attributable to the following: Group Company ShareProperty, Market Sharebased plant and appraisal based incentives equipment Provisions algorithm Total incentives 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2018 5,222 315 231 23 5,745 2,490 Recognised in income 191 53 62 23 177 278 Recognised directly in equity 2,770 2,770 1,246 At 31 December 2018 2,261 368 169 2,798 966 At 1 January 2017 6,604 252 125 39 6,942 3,757 Recognised in income 15 63 106 16 170 142 Recognised directly in equity 1,367 1,367 1,125 At 31 December 2017 5,222 315 231 23 5,745 2,490 The decrease in the deferred tax asset relating to share-based incentives at 31 December 2018 is due to increased exercises of share-based incentives in 2018 as well as the decrease in the Companys share price from 4.50 adjusted for the 10:1 share subdivision effective 31 August 2018 at 31 December 2017 to 4.32 at 31December 2018, which has outweighed the number of new share scheme awards.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015, and an additional reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This will reduce the Groups future tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax asset at 31 December 2018 has been calculated at the rate of 18% which represents the average expected rate at which the net deferred tax asset will reverse in the future.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 121 Notes continued 17 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 Group 000 000 Trade receivables 17,655 30,756 Less provision for impairment of trade receivables 718 463 Net trade receivables 16,937 30,293 Prepayments 5,446 4,545 Accrued income 166 Interest receivable 24 16 Other debtors 72 74 22,479 35,094 Following the application of IFRS 15, effective 1 January 2018, trade receivables have reduced refer Note 2.
Exposure to credit and currency risks and expected credit losses relating to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 26.
The Company had no trade and other receivables in either year.
18 Cash and deposits 2018 2017 Group 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 15,847 20,930 Money market deposits 4,090 4,045 19,937 24,975 Cash balances with an original maturity of less than three months were held in current accounts during the year and attracted interest at a weighted average rate of 0.4% 2017: 0.3%.
The cash and cash equivalents balance includes 1,718,000 2017: 1,803,000 which is restricted to use in accordance with the deeds of theEBT.
Money market deposits with an original maturity of more than three months and less than a year, attracted interest at a weighted average rate of 1.1% 2017: 1.1%.
The Company had no cash and cash equivalents either year.
19 Trade and other payables Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 2,653 1,424 Trade accruals 5,197 6,867 1,483 3,393 Other creditors 368 99 Other taxation and social security 9,863 11,105 Deferred revenue 19,393 Intergroup payables 40,657 20,017 18,081 38,888 42,140 23,410 Following the application of IFRS 15, effective 1 January 2018, deferred revenue is no longer recognised refer Note 2.
Exposure to currency and liquidity risk relating to trade and other payables is disclosed in Note 26.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 20 Loans and borrowings The Group agreed to extend a 12 month agreement with Barclays Bank plc for a 10,000,000 committed revolving loan facility on 13 February 2018.
The Company had no bank loans and borrowings in either year.
21 Leases The Group leases assets including land and buildings and motor vehicles that are held within property, plant and equipment.
Information about leases for which the Group is a lessee is presented below.
Analysis of property, plant and equipment 2018 between owned and leased assets 000 Net book value property, plant and equipment owned 2,872 Net book value right of use assets 12,331 15,203 Net book value of right of use assets Property Vehicles Total Balance at 1 January 2018 10,059 671 10,730 Additions 3,194 270 3,464 Depreciation charge 1,467 396 1,863 Balance at 31 December 2018 11,786 545 12,331 2018 Lease liabilities 000 Maturity analysis contractual undiscounted cash flows Less than one year 1,517 One to five years 7,283 More than five years 5,736 14,536 2018 Lease liabilities included in the statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 000 Current 1,213 Non-current 11,845 13,058 2018 Amounts recognised in profit or loss 000 Interest on lease liabilities 301 Expenses relating to short-term leases 81 Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets, excluding short-term leases of low-value assets 37 419 2018 Amounts recognised in the statement of cash flows 000 Total cash outflow for leases 1,532 Rightmove plc annual report 2018 123 Notes continued 21 Leases continued Comparative amounts for 2017 represent the non-cancellable operating lease rentals under IAS 17: 2017 Plant & Land & machinery buildings Total Group 000 000 000 Less than one year 304 929 1,233 Between one and five years 287 5,048 5,335 More than five years 5,700 5,700 591 11,677 12,268 During 2017 the Group entered into three new operating lease arrangements for additional space at the London office.
Theseleases were capitalised on adoption to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2018.
For further detail, refer Note 2.
The Company had no operating lease commitments in 2017.
22 Provisions 2018 2017 Dilapidations Employee Dilapidations Employee provision provisions Total provision provisions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 381 668 1,049 272 88 360 Utilised during the year 250 250 Charged in the year 43 253 296 109 580 689 At 31 December 424 671 1,095 381 668 1,049 Current 671 671 87 668 755 Non-current 424 424 294 294 The dilapidations provision is in respect of a number of the Groups leased properties where the Group has obligations to make good dilapidations.
The non-current liabilities are estimated to be payable over periods from one to ten years.
Where appropriate the provision may form part of the cost of the asset.
During the year the Group has accrued amounts in relation to a number of employee related provisions, principally holiday pay.
The provisions are based on the estimated future payroll cost to the Group and have not been discounted as the time value of money is not significant.
The Company had no provisions in either year.
23 Share capital Following the ten for one subdivision of the Companys ordinary share capital on 31 August 2018 refer Note 1, an adjustment has been made in the 2018 reconciliation of the number of ordinary shares in issue.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23 Share capital continued All issued shares are fully paid.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per ordinary share at general meetings of the Company.
In June 2007, the Company commenced a share buyback programme to purchase its own ordinary shares.
The total number of shares bought back in 2018 was 24,977,740 0.1 pence 2017: 2,224,059 1 pence shares representing 2.8% 2017: 2.4% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
All of the shares bought back in both years were cancelled.
The shares were acquired on the open market at a total consideration excluding costs of 113,528,000 2017: 90,809,000.
The maximum and minimum prices paid were 5.30 2017: 44.50 and 4.15 2017: 38.48 per share respectively.
Share-related expenses inrelation to stamp duty charges and broker expenses were 795,000 2017: 637,000.
Included within shares in issue at 31December 2018 are 2,248,020 0.1 pence 2017: 263,767 1 pence shares held by the EBT, 810,095 0.1 pence 2017: 67,700 1pence shares held by the SIP and 14,813,304 0.1 pence 2017: 1,892,456 1 pence shares held in treasury.
24 Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves Following the ten for one subdivision of the Companys ordinary share capital on 31 August 2018 refer Note 1, an adjustment has been made in the 2018 reconciliation of the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Group Own shares held 000 EBT shares SIP shares Treasury reserve reserve shares Total 000 000 000 000 Own shares held as at 1 January 2017 2,291 1,352 10,804 14,447 Shares purchased for SIP 761 761 Shares transferred to SIP 741 741 Share-based incentives exercised in the year 333 1,886 2,219 Reduction in shares released due to net settlement 81 81 SIP releases in the year 75 75 Own shares held as at 31 December 2017 1,978 2,018 8,999 12,995 Own shares held as at 1 January 2018 1,978 2,018 8,999 12,995 Shares purchased for SIP 685 685 Shares transferred to SIP 1,446 1,446 Sharebased incentives exercised in the year 104 68 2,027 2,199 Reduction in shares released due to net settlement 68 68 SIP releases in the year 411 411 Own shares held as at 31 December 2018 1,113 2,985 7,040 11,138 Own shares held number of shares Number of shares EBT shares SIP shares Treasury reserve reserve shares Total Own shares held as at 1 January 2017 343,275 50,150 2,271,725 2,665,150 Shares purchased for SIP 17,500 17,500 Shares transferred to SIP 20,000 20,000 Share-based incentives exercised in the year 77,008 396,192 473,200 Reduction in shares released due to net settlement 16,923 16,923 SIP releases in the year 2,450 2,450 1 pence own shares held as at 31 December 2017 263,767 67,700 1,892,456 2,223,923 Rightmove plc annual report 2018 125 Notes continued 24 Reconciliation of movement in capital and reserves continued Number of shares EBT shares SIP shares Treasury reserve reserve shares Total Own shares held as at 1 January 2018 263,767 67,700 1,892,456 2,223,923 Effect of 10:1 subdivision of shares 2,373,903 609,300 17,032,104 20,015,307 Shares purchased for SIP 157,525 157,525 Shares transferred to SIP 332,525 332,525 Share-based incentives exercised in the year 214,650 17,000 4,254,160 4,485,810 Reduction in shares released due to net settlement 142,904 142,904 SIP releases in the year 182,430 182,430 0.1 pence own shares held as at 31 December 2018 2,248,020 810,095 14,813,304 17,871,419 a EBT shares reserve This reserve represents the cost of own shares acquired by the EBT less any exercises of share-based incentives.
At 31 December 2018, the EBT held 2,248,020 0.1 pence 2017: 263,767 1 pence ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.3% 2017: 0.3% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
The market value of the shares held in the EBT at 31 December 2018 was 9,711,000 2017: 11,870,000. b SIP shares reserve Group and Company In November 2014, the Company established the Rightmove Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP.
This reserve represents the cost of acquiring shares less any exercises or releases of SIP awards.
Employees of the Group were offered 500 0.1 pence free shares shares with effect from 5 January 2018 and 475 0.1 pence free shares with effect from 21 December 2018, split across two different tax years, 2017: 50 1 pence shares with effect from 3 January 2017, subject to a three year service period.
182,430 0.1pence shares were exercised and 17,000 0.1 pence 2017: 2,450 1 pence shares were released by the SIP during the year inrelation to good leavers and retirees.
332,525 0.1 pence 2017: 20,000 1 pence shares were transferred to the SIP reserve fromthe EBT.
At 31 December 2018 the SIP held 810,095 0.1 pence 2017: 67,700 1 pence ordinary shares in the Company, representing 0.09% 2017: 0.07% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
The market value of the shares held in the SIP at 31 December 2018 was 3,500,000 2017: 3,047,000. c Treasury shares Group and Company This represents the cost of acquiring shares held in treasury less any exercises of share-based incentives.
These shares were bought in 2008 at an average price of 4.76 per 1 pence share and may be used to satisfy certain share-based incentive awards.
An additional 142,904 0.1 pence 2017: 6,277 1 pence shares were issued as a result of rolled up dividend payments in relation to performance shares.
Other reserves This represents the Capital Redemption Reserve in respect of own shares bought back and cancelled.
The movement of 25,000 2017: 22,000 is the nominal value of ordinary shares cancelled during the year.
Retained earnings The loss on the exercise of share-based incentives of 1,941,000 2017: 1,485,000 loss is the difference between the value that the shares held by the EBT, SIP and treasury shares were originally acquired at and the exercise price at which share-based incentives were exercised or released during the year.
Details of share buybacks and cancellation of shares are included in Note 23.
Company Reverse acquisition reserve This reserve resulted from the acquisition of Rightmove Group Limited by the Company and represents the difference between the value of the shares acquired at 28 January 2008 and the nominal value of the shares issued.
Other reserves Awards relating to share-based incentives made to Rightmove Group Limited employees have been treated as a deemed capital contribution.
The principal movement in other reserves for the year comprises 2,651,000 2017: 2,625,000 in respect of the share-based incentives charge for employees of Rightmove Group Limited.
In addition, other reserves include 386,000 2017: 361,000 of Capital Redemption Reserve.
A movement of 25,000 2017:22,000 has been recorded in relation to the nominal value of ordinary shares cancelled during the year.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Share-based payments The Group and Company operate a number of share-based incentive schemes for executive directors and employees.
All share-based incentives are subject to a service condition.
Such conditions are not taken into account in the fair value of the service received.
The fair value of services received in return for share-based incentives is measured by reference to the fair value of share-based incentives granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the share-based incentives is measured using either the Monte Carlo or Black Scholes pricing model as is most appropriate for each scheme.
Following the ten for one subdivision of shares effective 31 August 2018, the 2017 comparatives have been restated in order to aid comparability of information.
NI is being accrued, where applicable, at a rate of 13.8%, which management expects to be the prevailing rate when the awards are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
The total NI charge for the year relating to all awards was 419,000 2017: 1,228,000.
The Group recognised a total share-based payments charge for the year of 4,320,000 2017: 4,836,000 with a Company charge for the year of 1,669,000 2017: 2,211,000, as set out below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 Sharesave Plan 308 310 3 Performance Share Plan PSP 1,766 2,297 1,289 1,544 Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSP 1,585 1,441 377 667 Share Incentive Plan SIP 661 788 Total share-based payments charge 4,320 4,836 1,669 2,211 NI on applicable share-based incentives at 13.8% 419 1,228 205 876 A 2% reduction or increase in the employee leaver assumption excluding executive directors for the DSP and the PSP would have increased or decreased the share-based payments charge in the year by 34,000 2017: 34,000.
Approved and Unapproved Plans There has been no award of share options for Approved and Unapproved Plans since 5 March 2010.
Restated 2018 2017 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price exercise price Group Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 3,317,720 29.41 5,465,270 30.74 Exercised 2,792,190 22.40 2,147,550 32.81 Outstanding at 31 December 525,530 66.60 3,317,720 29.41 Exercisable at 31 December 525,530 66.60 3,317,720 29.41 The weighted average market value per ordinary share for options exercised in 2018 was 436.51 pence 2017: 417.70 pence.
Theoptions outstanding at 31 December 2018 have an exercise price of 66.69 pence 2017: in the range of 22.40 to 66.60 in both years and a weighted average contractual life of 1.2 years 2017: 1.3 years.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 127 Notes continued 25 Share-based payments continued Sharesave Plan The Group operates an HMRC Approved Sharesave Plan under which employees are granted an option to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at invitation, in three years time, dependent on their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period.
These funds are used to fund the option exercise.
No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of Sharesave options.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the fair value at grant date of the Sharesave Plan are as follows: Employee turnover Share before price at vesting Fair grant Exercise Expected Option Risk free Dividend non-vesting value per date price volatility life rate yield condition option Grant date pence pence % years % % % pence 1 October 2017 404.50 328.90 30.1 3.0 0.1 1.3 25.0 119.50 1 October 2018 476.35 389.00 25.4 3.0 0.8 1.3 25.0 118.49 Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
The requirement that an employee has to save in order to purchase shares under the Sharesave Plan is a non-vesting condition.
This feature has been incorporated into the fair value at grant date by applying a discount to the valuation obtained from the Black Scholes pricing model.
The discount has been determined by estimating the probability that the employee will stop saving based on expected future trends in the share price and past employee behaviour.
Restated 2018 2017 Weighted average Weighted average exercise price exercise price Group Number pence Number pence Outstanding at 1 January 971,400 318.25 1,169,330 271.27 Granted 315,208 385.44 369,390 328.90 Forfeited 117,684 325.92 196,200 293.81 Exercised 214,650 280.72 371,120 196.16 Outstanding at 31 December 954,274 349.15 971,400 318.25 Exercisable at 31 December 53,340 296.00 32,990 197.20 The weighted average market value per ordinary share for Sharesave options exercised in 2018 was 428.89 pence 2017:413.60pence.
The Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2018 have an exercise price in the range of 296.00pence to 389.00 pence 2017: 197.00 pence to 332.00 pence and a weighted average contractual life of 2.2 years 2017:2.4 years.
Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP permits awards of nil cost options or contingent shares which will only vest in the event of prior satisfaction of a performance condition.
364,800 PSP awards were made on 28 February 2018 the Grant Date subject to Earnings Per Share EPS and Total Shareholders Return TSR performance.
Performance will be measured over three financial years 1 January 2018 31 December 2020.
The vesting in February 2021 Vesting Date of 25% of the 2018 PSP award will be dependent on a relative TSR performance condition measured over a three year performance period and the vesting of the 75% of the 2018 PSP award will be dependent on the satisfaction of an EPS growth target measured over a three year performance period.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Share-based payments continued The PSP awards have been valued using the Monte Carlo model for the TSR element and the Black Scholes model for the EPS element and the resulting share-based payments charge is being spread evenly over the three year period between Grant Date and Vesting Date.
PSP award holders are entitled to receive dividends accruing between the Grant Date and the Vesting Date and this value will be delivered in shares.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the fair value at grant date of the PSP awards are as follows: Employee turnover Share before price at vesting Fair grant Exercise Expected Option Risk free Dividend non-vesting value per date price volatility life rate yield condition option Grant date pence pence % years % % % pence 1 March 2017 1 TSR dependent 406.50 nil 30.1 3.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 211.10 1 March 2017 1 EPS dependent 406.50 nil n a 3.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 406.50 9 May 2017 1 TSR dependent 424.40 nil 30.1 3.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 211.10 9 May 2017 1 EPS dependent 424.40 nil n a 3.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 406.50 28 February 2018 1 TSR dependent 427.70 nil 25.4 3.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 199.80 28 February 2018 1 EPS dependent 427.70 nil n a 3.0 0.8 0.0 0.0 427.70 1 For details of TSR and EPS performance conditions refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84.
Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
Restated 2018 2017 Group Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 2,423,340 4,029,520 Granted 364,800 381,770 Forfeited 236,350 Exercised 1,069,070 1,751,600 Outstanding at 31 December 1,719,070 2,423,340 Exercisable at 31 December 245,562 251,400 The weighted average market value per ordinary share for options exercised in 2018 was 453.33 pence 2017: 412.54 pence.
Theweighted average exercise price was nil in both years.
The PSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 have a weighted average contractual life of 2.7 years 2017: 2.7 years.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 129 Notes continued 25 Share-based payments continued Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSP In March 2009 a DSP was established which allows executive directors and other selected senior management the opportunity to earn a bonus determined as a percentage of base salary settled in nil cost deferred shares.
The award of shares under the plan is contingent on the satisfaction of pre-set internal targets relating to underlying drivers of long-term revenue growth the Performance Period.
The right to the shares is deferred for two years from the date of the award the Vesting Period and potentially forfeitable during that period should the employee leave employment.
The deferred share awards have been valued using the Black Scholes model and the resulting share-based payments charge is being spread evenly over the combined Performance Period and Vesting Period of the shares, being three years.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the fair value of the deferred share awards are calculated at the date on which the potential DSP bonus is communicated to directors and senior management the grant date as follows: Employee turnover Share before price at vesting Fair grant Exercise Expected Risk free Dividend non-vesting value per date price term rate yield condition option Grant date Award date pence pence years % % % pence 1 1 March 2017 1 March 2018 406.50 nil 3.0 0.1 1.3 10.0 391.50 2 28 February 2018 28 February 2019 427.70 nil 3.0 0.8 1.3 10.0 411.80 1 Following the achievement of 60% of the 2017 internal performance targets, 432,120 nil cost deferred shares were awarded to executives and senior management on 1 March 2018 the Award Date with the right to the release of the shares deferred until March 2020.
2 Based on the 2018 internal performance targets, the Remuneration Committee determined that 78% of the maximum award in respect of the year will be made in March 2019.
The number of shares to be awarded will be determined based on the share price at the Award Date in March 2019.
Restated 2018 2017 Group Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 711,130 761,720 Awarded 432,120 384,160 Forfeited 35,790 Exercised 353,610 398,960 Outstanding at 31 December 789,640 711,130 Exercisable at 31 December The weighted average market value per ordinary share for deferred shares exercised in 2018 was 450.86 pence 2017:410.72pence.
The weighted average exercise price was nil in both years.
The DSP awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 have a weighted average contractual life of 1.7 years 2017: 1.7 years.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25 Share-based payments continued Share Incentive Plan In 2014, the Group established the Rightmove Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP.
Employees were offered 500 shares on 1 January 2018 and a further 475 shares on 21 December 2018 across two separate tax years 2017:5001pence shares as a gift, subject to a three year service period the Vesting Period.
The SIP awards have been valued using the Black Scholes model and the resulting share-based payments charge spread evenly over the Vesting Period of three years.
The SIP shareholders are entitled todividends paid in cash over the Vesting Period.
No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of SIP options.
The assumptions used in the measurement of the fair value at grant date of the SIP awards are as follows: Employee turnover Share before price at vesting Fair grant Exercise Expected Option Risk free Dividend non-vesting value per date price volatility life rate yield condition option Grant date pence pence % years % % % pence 1 January 2017 394.50 nil 30.1 3.0 0.1 nil 33.0 394.50 1 January 2018 456.80 nil 25.4 3.0 0.8 nil 33.0 456.80 21 December 2018 420.90 nil 25.4 3.0 0.8 nil 33.0 420.90 Expected volatility is estimated by considering historic average share price volatility at the grant date.
Restated 2018 2017 Group Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 592,000 443,000 Granted 475,400 236,000 Forfeited 77,500 62,500 Exercised 182,430 Released 17,000 24,500 Outstanding at 31 December 790,470 592,000 Exercisable at 31 December 55,570 The weighted average market value per ordinary share for SIP awards released and exercised in 2018 was 454.90 pence 2017:416.61 pence.
The weighted average exercise price in both years was nil.
The SIP shares released relate to good leavers and retirements from the SIP, in accordance with the terms of the SIP.
The SIP options outstanding at 31 December 2018 have a weighted average contractual life of 1.5 years 2017: 0.9 years.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 131 Notes continued 26 Financial instruments Credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets, previously recognised as loans and receivables under IAS 39 now classified as amortised cost under IFRS 9, represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2018 2017 Group Note 000 000 Net trade receivables 17 16,937 30,293 Accrued interest receivable 17 24 16 Contract assets 5 427 Other debtors 17 72 74 Cash and cash equivalents 18 15,847 20,930 Money market deposits 18 4,090 4,045 37,397 55,358 The Company had no exposure to credit risk in either year.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 2018 2017 Group Note 000 000 UK 16,864 29,885 Rest of the world 73 408 17 16,937 30,293 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by type of customer was: 2018 2017 Group Note 000 000 Property advertisers 15,688 29,020 Other 1,249 1,273 17 16,937 30,293 The Groups most significant customer accounts for 791,000 2017: 1,408,000 of net trade receivables as at 31 December 2018.
Expected credit loss assessment For the Groups smaller Estate Agency and Overseas customers, expected credit losses are measured using a provisioning matrix based on the reason the trade receivable is past due.
The provision matrix rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years and adjusted, when required, to take into account current macro-economic factors.
For all other customers the Group applies experienced credit judgement that is determined to be predictive of the risk of loss to assess the expected credit loss, taking into account external ratings, financial statements and other available information.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 26 Financial instruments continued The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and expected credit losses for trade receivables from individual customers as at 31 December 2018.
Gross carrying Weighted-average amount Loss allowance loss rate 000 000 Credit-impaired Current 2.1% 11,813 249 No Past due 130 days 6.4% 4,064 261 No Past due 3160 days 10.9% 963 105 No Past due 6190 days 21.1% 370 78 No More than 91 days past due 5.6% 445 25 No 17,655 718 Comparative information under IAS 39 The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December 2017 under IAS 39 was as follows: 2017 Gross Impairment Group 000 000 Not past due 26,725 4 Past due 030 days 2,750 68 Past due 3060 days 659 30 Past due 6090 days 336 75 Past due older 286 286 30,756 463 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows.
Comparative amounts for 2017 represent the allowance account for impairment losses under IAS 39: 2018 2017 Group 000 000 At 1 January 463 428 Charged during the year 819 466 Utilised during the year 564 431 At 31 December 718 463 Rightmove plc annual report 2018 133 Notes continued 26 Financial instruments continued The Group has identified specific balances for which it has provided an impairment allowance on a line by line basis across all ledgers, in both years.
No general impairment allowance has been provided in either year.
The allowance accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at that point the amounts considered irrecoverable are written off against the financial asset directly.
Liquidity risk The contractual maturities of undiscounted financial liabilities, including undiscounted estimated interest payments, as at year-end were: Carrying Contractual 6 months amount cash flows or less Group 000 000 000 At 31 December 2018 Trade payables being non-derivative financial liabilities 2,653 2,653 2,653 At 31 December 2017 Trade payables being non-derivative financial liabilities 1,424 1,424 1,424 The Company had no derivative financial liabilities in either year.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur earlier or at significantly different amounts and all payables are due within six months of the balance sheet date.
Currency risk During 2018 all the Groups sales and more than 97.0% 2017: 95.0% of the Groups purchases were Sterling denominated and accordingly it has no significant currency risk.
Interest rate risk The Group has exposure to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalent balances and money market deposit balances.
Fair values The fair values of all financial instruments in both years are equal to the carrying values.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 27 Related party disclosures Inter-group transactions with subsidiaries Under the inter-group loan agreement dated 30 January 2008, Rightmove Group Limited settles all expenses on behalf of the Company, including dividends paid to shareholders and share buybacks and related costs.
During the year, the Company was charged interest of 471,000 2017: 330,000 under this agreement and at 31 December 2018, the unsecured inter-group loan balance was 40,657,000 2017: 20,017,000 including capitalised interest refer Note 19.
On 26 June 2018 Rightmove Group Limited declared an interim dividend of 60p per ordinary share to the Company.
Additionally, on 20 November 2018, Rightmove Group Limited declared a further interim dividend of 57p per ordinary share to the Company.
The dividends of 151,399,000 2017: 148,810,000 were settled via a reduction in the inter-group loan balance owed by Rightmove plc to Rightmove Group Limited.
Rightmove Group Limited also declared a dividend in specie of 1,446,000 2017:741,000, representing the cost of the SIP shares transferred from the EBT to the SIP during the year.
The Company grants share options to employees of Rightmove Group Limited.
This transaction is recognised as a recharge arrangement with an increase in the carrying value of the investment of Rightmove Group Limited refer Note 15.
Inter-group transactions between subsidiaries During the year Rightmove Rent Services Limited became a related party to the Company following its incorporation on 19February 2018.
During the year, Rightmove Group Limited has settled liabilities on behalf of Rightmove Rent Services Limited and the balance owing under the inter-group loan agreement dated 28 March 2018 was 365,000 as at 31 December 2018.
Under IFRS 9 this loan has been fully impaired within Rightmove Group Limited as it is not expected to be recovered.
Following its acquisition on 31 May 2016, The Outside View Analytics Ltd became a related party to the Company.
During the year, Rightmove Group Limited has settled liabilities on behalf of The Outside View Analytics Ltd and the unsecured inter-group loan balance was 31,000 2017: 25,000 as at 31 December 2018.
Directors transactions There were no transactions with directors in either year other than those disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Information on the emoluments of the directors who served during the year, together with information regarding the beneficialinterest of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84.
During the year, the directors in office in total had gains of 8,157,000 2017: 5,574,000 arising on the exercise of share-based incentive awards.
The total share-based payments charge in relation to the directors in office was 1,669,000 2017: 2,211,000.
Key management personnel No other Rightmove employees are considered to meet the definition of key management personnel other than those disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 84.
28 Contingent liabilities The Group and the Company had no contingent liabilities in either year.
29 Subsequent events There have been no subsequent events having a material impact on the financial statements between 31 December 2018 and the reporting date.
