Financial statements Group statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Share Share Other Retained capital premium reserves earnings Non-controlling Total notes 27 and 28 account note 29 note 29 Total interests equity Year ended 31 December 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 4,360 4,306 12,284 23,761 44,711 6,404 51,115 a Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards 10 179 169 169 Restated opening balance 4,360 4,306 12,294 23,582 44,542 6,404 50,946 b Total comprehensive income for the year 3,600 14,263 10,663 123 10,786 Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limiteds c sharecapital 382 382 382 Dividends note 11 5,356 5,356 415 5,771 d Share buy-back 290 9 5,423 5,704 5,704 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders e tosatisfy share options 114 140 254 254 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 60 60 60 Treasury shares reissued and other movements 6 6 6 Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests 85 85 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges totheincome statement 50 61 111 111 Transfers and other movements 22 22 Closing balance 3,688 4,312 8,661 27,025 43,686 6,137 49,823 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Share Other Retained capital Share premium reserves earnings Non-controlling Total notes 27 and 28 account note 29 note 29 Total interests equity Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 4,139 4,304 9,216 21,631 39,290 6,440 45,730 b Total comprehensive income for the year 3,078 8,613 11,691 248 11,939 Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limiteds c sharecapital 310 310 310 Dividends note 11 4,250 4,250 403 4,653 d Share buy-back 89 4 2,312 2,397 2,397 Companies no longer consolidated 124 130 6 8 2 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders e tosatisfy share options 64 18 82 82 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 43 43 43 Treasury shares reissued and other movements 2 2 2 Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests 170 170 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges totheincome statement 41 57 98 98 Transfers and other movements 133 133 Closing balance 4,360 4,306 12,284 23,761 44,711 6,404 51,115 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Share Other Retained capital Share premium reserves earnings Non-controlling Total notes 27 and 28 account note 29 note 29 Total interests equity Year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 4,174 4,300 9,139 19,736 37,349 6,779 44,128 b Total comprehensive income for the year 49 4,553 4,504 209 4,713 Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limiteds c share capital 35 35 35 Dividends note 11 2,725 2,725 352 3,077 Companies no longer consolidated 8 8 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders e to satisfy share options 43 37 80 80 f Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 108 40 148 313 165 Treasury shares reissued and other movements 4 4 4 Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests 109 109 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges totheincome statement 61 64 125 125 Closing balance 4,139 4,304 9,216 21,631 39,290 6,440 45,730 a The impact of the transition to new accounting standards: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 is discussed in note 45. b R efer to Group statement of comprehensive income for further details.
Adjustments to other reserves include currency translation attributable to owners of Rio Tinto, other than that arising onRio Tinto Limiteds share capital.
c Refer to note 1 d. d I n 2018, the total amount of US$5,704 million includes own shares purchased from the owners of Rio Tinto as per the cash flow statement of US$5,386 million and a financial liability recognised in respect of an irrevocable contract in place as at 31 December 2018 to cover the share buy-back programme, less amounts paid during the year in respect of a similar irrevocable contract in place at 31 December 2017.
In 2017, the total amount of US$2,397 million includes own shares purchased from the owners of Rio Tinto as per the cash flow statement of US$2,083 million and afinancial liability recognised in respect of the irrevocable contract in place as at 31 December 2017. e Net of contributions received from employees for share options.
f T he restructure of Coal & Allied Industries Limited completed on 3 February 2016.
The restructure involved the exchange of a 32.4% interest in Hunter Valley Operations mine for an additional 20% shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, increasing Rio Tintos shareholding of Coal & Allied Industries Limited from 80% to 100%.
Rio Tinto sold its 100% interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited on 1 September 2017.
com Financial statements Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards Accounting standards The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with IFRS withIFRS, as defined in note 1, which differs in certain respects from the asdefined in note 1.
The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK version of International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable GAAP.
As permitted under the rules governing the transition to IFRS, which inAustralia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business combinations that occurred before the transition date of 1 January 2004.
As a result, the DLC Prior to 1 January 2004, the Groups financial statements were prepared Merger of economic interests described above continues to be accounted inaccordance with UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, goodwill for as a merger under IFRS as defined in note 1. onacquisitions prior to 1998, which was eliminated directly against equity in the Groups UK GAAP financial statements, has not been reinstated.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition Thiswas permitted under the rules governing the transition to IFRS set accounting is that the balance sheet of the merged Group includes the outin IFRS 1.
The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, does not provide assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their carrying for the netting of goodwill against equity.
As a consequence, shareholders values prior to the Merger, subject to adjustments to achieve uniformity funds under AAS include the residue of such goodwill, which amounted ofaccounting policies, rather than at their fair values at the date of the toUS$379 million at 31 December 2018 2017: US$557 million.
For accounting purposes Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single public parent company with their respective public Save for the exception described above, the Groups financial statements shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
As a result, drawn up in accordance with IFRS are consistent with the requirements the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited ofAAS.
publicshareholders are included in the amounts attributed to owners ofRioTinto on the balance sheet, income statement and statement Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis ofcomprehensive income.
of financialstatements The Rio Tinto Group Australian Corporations Act These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the merger The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Merger, and undersection 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued presented by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated bytheAustralian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC on financial statements in accordance with both UK and Australian legislation 14December 2015.
The main effect of the order is that the financial and regulations.
statements are prepared on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic Merger terms entity, and in accordance with the principles and requirements of On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, entered into International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European adual listed companies DLC merger.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in Union EU IFRS and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the theUKand listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges and  of IFRS see above.
RioTinto Limited is incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
The Merger was effected by contractual arrangements For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief see page 252. betweenthe companies and amendments to Rio Tinto plcs Memorandum and Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution.
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with neither assuming adominant role.
In particular, the arrangements: confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a common economic interest in both groups: provide for common boards of directors and a unified management structure: provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions: and provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to takekey decisions, including the election of directors, through an electoral procedure in which the public shareholders of the two companies in effect vote on a joint basis.
The Merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the ownership of any existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each company of one special voting share to a trustee company which facilitates the joint electoral procedure for public shareholders.
During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financialstatements Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 149 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively Corporate information referred to as IFRS in this report.
The Group has not early adopted any Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial minerals not yet mandatory.
borates, titanium dioxide and salt, iron ore and uranium.
Activities span the world and are strongly represented in Australia and North America, Further detail on the going concern basis of accounting is included on withsignificant businesses also in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London and The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis New York Stock Exchanges and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in ofaccounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial Australia andlisted on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plcs statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, except for the change registered office is at 6 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4AD, UK.
Rio Tinto inaccounting requirements set out below, all of which were effective as Limitedsregistered office is at Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, at1January 2018 without restatement of prior years.
The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis Contracts with Customers and IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions offinancial statements on page 149, for the purposes of preparing the IFRS and Advance Consideration and a number of other minor amendments to compliant consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group, both IFRS on 1 January 2018.
All of these pronouncements have been endorsed the DLC companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, are viewed as a by the EU.
Information on the transition impact of these new single economic entity, and the interests of shareholders of both companies pronouncements is included in note 45. are presented as the equity interests of shareholders in the Rio Tinto Group.
Mandatory in 2019 These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc The impact on the Group of transition to the accounting pronouncements andRio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective listed below that are mandatory in 2019 is currently expected to be subsidiaries together the Group and include the Groups share of joint immaterial other than for IFRS 16 Leases.
arrangements and associates as explained in note 1 b below.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised IFRS 16 Leases Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in 2019 for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 27 February 2019.
Under the new standard, a lessee is in essence required to: a Recognise all right of use assets and lease liabilities, with the exception Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Groups subsidiaries, joint of short-term 12 months or fewer and low value leases, on the arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on the balance sheet.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present Groups transactions with other related parties.
value of future lease payments for the lease term.
Where a lease contains an extension option, the lease payments for the extension The 2018 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited period will be included in the liability if the Group is reasonably certain toprepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as that it will exercise the option.
The liability includes variable lease amendedby an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments payments that depend on an index or rate but excludes other variable Commission on 14 December 2015.
The 2018 financial statements disclose lease payments.
The right of use asset at initial recognition reflects the on page 149 the effect of the adjustments to the Groups consolidated lease liability, initial direct costs and any lease payments made before profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive income loss and the commencement date of the lease less any lease incentives and, consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under IFRS as defined whereapplicable, provision for dismantling and restoration.
belowthat would be required under the version of IFRS that is applicable b Recognise depreciation of right of use assets and interest on inAustralia, referred to as AustralianAccounting Standards AAS.
leaseliabilities in the income statement over the lease term.
c Separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial presented within financing activities and interest portion which the statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global Group presents in operating activities in the cash flow statement.
The Group will implement the standard as at 1 January 2019.
For contracts Basis of preparation of the financial statements in place at this date, the Group will continue to apply its existing definition The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing of leases under current accounting standards grandfathering, instead theGroups 2018 financial statements are set out below.
ofreassessing whether existing contracts are or contain a lease at the dateof application of the new standard.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies For transition, as permitted by IFRS 16, the Group will apply the modified reporting under IFRS and in accordance with applicable UK law, applicable retrospective approach to existing operating leases which will be capitalised Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments under the new standard ie retrospectively, with the cumulative effect Commission Order dated 14December 2015, Article 4 of the European recognised at the date of initial application as an adjustment to the Union IAS regulation and alsowith: openingbalance of retained earnings with no restatement of comparative International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the information in the financial statements.
For existing finance leases, International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations thecarrying amounts before transition will represent the 31 December 2018 issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC values assigned to the right of use asset and lease liability.
both as adopted by the European Union EU and which are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2018: and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB andinterpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which aremandatory as at 31 December 2018.
com Financial statements The Group has made the following additional choices, as permitted The lease liability of US$1.3 billion inclusive of amounts already reported by IFRS 16, for existing operating leases: as finance leases under IAS 17 shown above will be included in net debt as Not to bring short-term leases 12 months or fewer to run as at 1 January at 1 January 2019.
2019 including reasonably certain options to extend or low value leases on balance sheet.
Costs for these items will continue to be expensed The Group has implemented a lease accounting system which will be used directly to the income statement.
for the majority of the Groups leases.
A separate contract linked system For all leases, the lease liability will be measured at 1 January 2019 as will be used for the Groups shipping leases.
the present value of any future lease payments discounted using the appropriate incremental borrowing rate.
The carrying value of the right Contracts signed after 1 January 2019 will be assessed against the lease of use asset for property, vessels and certain other leases will generally identification criteria under IFRS 16.
This may increase or decrease the be measured as if the lease had been in place since commencement number of contracts which are deemed to be leases.
For all other leases the right of use asset will be measured as equal ofIFRS 16 continues to develop and the Group continues to monitor this.
to the lease liability and adjusted for any accruals or prepayments already on the balance sheet.
The Group will also exclude any initial In future periods EBITDA, as disclosed in the Financial Information by direct costs eg legal fees from the measurement of the right of use Business Unit on page 249 will increase as the operating lease cost is assets at transition.
charged against EBITDA under IAS 17 whereas under IFRS 16 the charge An impairment review must be performed on right of use assets at initial will be included in depreciation and interest, which are excluded from application of the standard.
The Group has elected to rely on its onerous EBITDA although included in net earnings.
Short-term leasing costs and lease assessments under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and non-lease components will continue to be charged against EBITDA.
In 2018, Contingent Assets, as at 31 December 2018 as permitted by IFRS 16. an operating lease expense of US$787 million has been recorded in net Any existing onerous lease provision is set against the right of use asset operating costs: refer to note 4.
This includes arrangements entered into carrying value upon transition.
and maturing during 2018 and therefore not disclosed as non-cancellable To apply the use of hindsight when reviewing the lease arrangements operating lease commitments at 31 December 2017.
The Group has fordetermination of the measurement or term of the lease under the disclosed US$0.5 billion of non-cancellable operating lease commitments retrospective option.
due within one year at 31 December 2018, approximately US$0.3 billion of To separate non-lease components from lease components for vessels which are not expected to be charged against EBITDA in 2019 as a result and properties for the first time as part of the transition adjustment.
To continue not to apply lease accounting to intangible assets.
In some cases, to apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases Operating cash flows will increase under IFRS 16 as the element of cash withreasonably similar characteristics.
paid attributable to the repayment of principal will be included in financing cash flows.
The net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents will The impact of transition to IFRS 16 on the Groups 1 January 2019 balance remain the same.
sheet is expected to be an increase in lease liabilities debt of US$1.2 billion, an increase in right of use assets net investments in leases of The Groups activities as a lessor are not material and hence the Group US$1.1 billion, net adjustments to other assets and liabilities of US$0.1 does not expect any significant impact on the financial statements.
billion, and a charge of less than US$0.1 billion to retained earnings.
As the Group has some property sub lease arrangements, these must be reassessed for classification purposes as operating or finance leases at The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the Groups transition.
Some additional disclosures will also be required from next year.
lease liabilities to be recognised in the balance sheet at 1January 2019 is4.7%.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in 2019 The Groups undiscounted non-cancellable operating lease commitments IFRIC 23 changes the method of calculating provisions for uncertain tax of US$1.7 billion at 31 December 2018 under IAS 17 Leases are shown positions.
The Group currently recognises provisions based on the most onpage 200 of this Report.
The most significant differences between likely amount of the liability, if any, for each separate uncertain tax position.
theselease commitments and a lease liability recorded on transition The interpretation requires a probability weighted average approach to be ofUS$1.3 billion as shown above are set out below: taken for issues for which there are a wide range of possible outcomes.
For tax issues with a binary outcome, the most likely amount method still US$bn remains.
Operating lease commitments under IAS 17 per note 31 1.7 Exclude deduct The interpretation must be implemented retrospectively, either with a restatement of comparatives or with the cumulative impact of application Leases expiring in 12 months or fewer 0.1 a recognised as at 1 January 2019 without restatement of comparatives.
Committed leases not commenced 0.1 a Components excluded from the lease liability 0.2 Include add a Cost of reasonably certain extensions 0.3 b Other 0.1 Sub total 1.7 Effect of discounting on payments included in the calculation ofthelease liability excluding finance lease balances 0.4 Lease liability opening balance reported as at 1 January 2019 IFRS16 1.3 a Undiscounted.
b Includes finance lease liabilities already reported under IAS 17.
Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 151 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets determination of cash generating Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative units CGUs and assessment of indicators of impairment note 1 e and Compensation, Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in i, note 6, note 12 and note 13.
Associates and Joint Ventures Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in Estimation of asset lives whether certain assets are indefinite lived 2019, Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle and note 1 e and i.
Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Provision for onerous contracts determination of assets dedicated Mandatory in 2019 and not yet endorsed by the EU to a contract note 1 i. Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations determining The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these pronouncements.
when an estimate is sufficiently reliable to update note 1 k. Deferral of stripping costs judgment on components strip ratios and Mandatory in 2020 and beyond separate or integrated multiple pit mines note 1 h. Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting Uncertain tax positions technical interpretation of tax law and the use Mandatory in 2020 and not yet endorsed by the EU of the most likely scenario for provision note 1 m, note 9 and note 31.
The 2018 Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting is effective in 2020 Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets recognition of deferred for preparers that develop an accounting policy based on the Framework.
tax assets for loss-making operations note 17 c, e and f. Identification of functional currencies different companies may make The IASB revised its Conceptual Framework in April 2018.
Where specific different judgments based on similar facts note 1 d. accounting policies are not covered by IFRS they must be in accordance Basis of consolidation judgment as to when the Group has control, joint with the principles in the Framework by 2020. control or significant influence notes 33 to 36.
Contingencies assessing the probability of any loss and whether it is The 2018 Conceptual Framework describes the objective of, and the possible to quantify any loss note 31. concepts for, general purpose financial reporting.
The purpose of the Exclusions from underlying earnings judgment on items to be excluded Conceptual Framework is to: on grounds of nature or size note 2. a Assist the International Accounting Standards Board Board to develop Accounting for the Pilbara Arrangements treatment of payments made IFRS Standards Standards that are based on consistent concepts: over a contractually specified period for network infrastructure capacity b Assist preparers to develop consistent accounting policies when no critical policies note xiii.
Standard applies to a particular transaction or other event, or when aStandard allows a choice of accounting policy: and Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing c Assist all parties to understand and interpret the Standards.
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: The Conceptual Framework is not a Standard.
Nothing in the Conceptual Impairment of non-current assets review of asset carrying values, Framework overrides any Standard or any requirement in a Standard.
The impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill Group is currently evaluating this pronouncement.
determination of discounted cash flows note1 e and i, note 6, note 12and note 13.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Provision for onerous contracts cash flow estimates and the discount Mandatory in 2021 and not yet endorsed by the EU rate to be used note 1 i.
The Standard provides consistent principles for all aspects of accounting Close-down, restoration and environmental cost obligations estimation forinsurance contracts.
The Group will evaluate the impact of this of costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 26. pronouncement in due course.
Uncertain tax positions estimating the potential exposures for each possible scenario note 1 m, note 9 and note 31.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets determination of ofestimation uncertainty cashflows note 1 m, note 17 c, e and f. The preparation of the financial statements requires management to Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 1 n usejudgment in applying accounting policies and in making critical andnote44.
Contingencies estimate of possible liability note 31.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best Ore reserves and mineral resources knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to Estimates of ore reserves and, in some cases, mineral resources can previous experience, but actual results may differ materially from the impact: depreciation and amortisation rates: the carrying values of amounts included in the financial statements.
Areas of judgment in the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: deferred stripping application of accounting policies that have the most significant effect on costs: provisions for close-down and restoration costs: and the recovery of the amounts recognised in the financial statements and key sources of deferred tax assets.
estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on financial year are noted below and further information is contained in the information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code see note 1 j.
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires judgment to accounting policies and estimates on pages 162 to 164.
The quantum of ore interpret available geological data and subsequently to select an reserves and mineral resources impacts many of these areas and the basis appropriate mining method and then to establish an extraction schedule.
of calculation is explained below.
Information on less material judgments Estimation requires assumptions about future commodity prices and and sources of estimation uncertainty has been incorporated into the demand, exchange rates, production costs, transport costs, close-down and relevant accounting policy notes.
restoration costs, recovery rates and discount rates and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
Areas of judgment in the application of accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial There are many uncertainties in the estimation process and assumptions statements are: thatare valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological or economic data, or 152 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements unforeseen operational issues, may change estimates of ore reserves Other unincorporated arrangements andmineral resources.
In some cases, the Group participates in unincorporated arrangements andhas rights to its share of the assets and obligations for its share of the The Group uses judgment as to when to include mineral resources liabilities of the arrangement rather than a right to a net return, but does not inaccounting estimates, for example, the use of mineral resources share joint control.
In such cases, the Group recognises: its share of assets intheGroups depreciation policy is described in note 1 i below and and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share inthedetermination of the date of closure as described in note 1 k. of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the unincorporated Theunaudited statement of ore reserves is included on page 271 arrangement: and its share of expenses.
All such amounts are measured in andofmineral resources on page 275. accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which is usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the arrangement.
These amounts are recorded in a Accounting convention the Groups financial statements on the appropriate lines.
The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, and for the related comparative periods, has Associates been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement, revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the accounting for presumed to exist where there is neither control nor joint control and the post-employment assets and obligations.
The Groups policy in respect Group has more than 20% of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly ofthese items is set out in the notes below.
demonstrated that this is not the case.
Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20% of the voting rights if it has the power to All financial statement values are rounded to the nearest million US$m participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the unless otherwise stated.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or present them on the same basis as current period figures.
The Group uses the term equity accounted units EAUs to refer to associates and JVs collectively.
Under the equity accounting method the b Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the investment onconsolidation.
is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
Long-term loans to EAUs Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, that in substance form part of the Groups net investment quasi equity liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to loans are financial assets but are included in the line Investments in equity bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the Group.
accounted units on the face of the balance sheet.
When the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including such Subsidiaries long-term loans and any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either of the Companies.
Control recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive exists where either of the Companies has: power over the entities, that is, obligations to continue to make payments on behalf of the EAU.
existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect the Companies returns : Acquisitions note 37 exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, entities: and the ability to use its power to affect thosereturns.
Subsidiaries the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control.
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition, which isthedate on which control is obtained.
Joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which two or more parties have The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former such that decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement those owners of the acquiree, the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from that significantly affect the Companies returns require the unanimous a contingent consideration arrangement and any equity interests issued consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has two types of joint bythe Group.
Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed arrangements: asincurred.
Joint operations JO The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonA JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any haverights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any shortfall is immediately joint activity through a share of the output, rather than by receiving a share recognised in the income statement.
of the results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its Non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that are present ownership share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net ofthe output by the JO: and its share of expenses.
All such amounts are assets in the event of liquidation, are recognised by the Group in one of two measured in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which is ways with the choice being available on an  basis.
usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the JO.
These amounts are They can be measured at either the non-controlling interests proportionate recorded in the Groups financial statements on the appropriate lines.
share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as equity options and valued on Joint ventures JV that basis.
Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to nonA JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
JVs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
com 153 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Sales revenue is recognised on individual sales when control transfers Where the Group previously held a non-controlling interest in the acquiree, tothe customer.
In most instances, control passes and sales revenue is this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is obtained withany gain recognised when the product is delivered to the vessel or vehicle on which or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost ofthe share it will be transported once loaded, the destination port or the customers purchase that gives rise to control is included within Investingactivities premises.
There may be circumstances when judgment is required based inthe cash flow statement.
on the five indicators of control below.
The customer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership and Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the hasthe ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of the difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the remaining benefits from, the goods or service.
shareof net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of The customer has a present obligation to pay in accordance with the suchpurchases is included within Financing activities in the cash terms of the sales contract.
For shipments under the Incoterms Cost, flowstatement.
Insurance and Freight CIF Carriage Paid to CPT Cost and Freight CFR this is generally when the ship is loaded, at which time the Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within obligation for payment is for both product and freight.
The customer has accepted the asset.
Sales revenue may be subject to adjustment if the product specification does not conform to the terms The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the specified in the sales contract but this does not impact the passing of consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control.
Assay and specification adjustments have been immaterial control or significant influence is obtained.
The customer has legal title to the asset.
The Group usually retains Disposals note 37 legaltitle until payment is received for credit risk purposes only.
Individual non-current assets or disposal groups that is, groups of assets The customer has physical possession of the asset.
This indicator and liabilities to be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single transaction maybe less important as the customer may obtain control of an are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are met at the assetprior toobtaining physical possession, which may be the periodend: caseforgoods intransit.
The carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use: and The Group sells a significant proportion of its products on CFR or CIF The disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present Incoterms.
This means that the Group is responsible acts as principal condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for forproviding shipping services and, in some instances, insurance after the suchsales: and date at which control of goodspasses to the customer at the loading port.
The sale is highly probable.
The Group therefore has separate performance obligations for freight Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying andinsurance services that are provided solely to facilitate sale of the amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance sheet is commodities it produces.
Other Incoterms commonly used by the Group not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at the are Free on Board FOB, where the Group has no responsibility for freight fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets acquired for or insurance once control of the goods has passed at the loading port, resale no profits or losses are recognised between the acquisition date and andDelivered at Place DAP where control of the goods passes when the the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
product is delivered to the agreed destination.
For these Incoterms there is only one performance obligation, being for provision of product at the point On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated where control passes.
and, if applicable, equity accounting ceases.
The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which vary in If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is tenure and pricing mechanisms, including some volumes sold in the spot remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is market.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
orfinancial asset depending on the facts.
Certain amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed Within each sales contract, each unit of product shipped is a separate of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has ceased, performance obligation.
Revenue is generally recognised at the contracted may be recycled to the income statement.
The cash proceeds of disposals price as this reflects the stand-alone selling price.
Sales revenue excludes are included within Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Mining royalties payable are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit-based tax, Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of withintaxation.
control are accounted for in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included within Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated net of the treatment and refining charges which will be required to convert it to an end product.
c Sales revenue Recognition and measurement The Group recognises sales revenue related to the transfer of promised goods or services when control of the goods or services passes to the customer.
The amount of revenue recognised reflects the consideration to which the Group is or expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods orservices.
com Financial statements Certain of the Groups products may be provisionally priced at the date The Group does provide information on freight revenue for the iron revenue is recognised: however, substantially all iron ore and aluminium oreandbauxite businesses on pages 36 and 41 to help stakeholders sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period.
The final understand FOB operating margins for those products.
selling price for all provisionally priced products is based on the price for thequotational period stipulated in the contract.
Final prices for copper Third-party commodity swap arrangements principally for delivery and concentrate are normally determined between 30 to 180 days after delivery receipt of smelter-grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
The change in value of the provisionally priced receivable is based on relevant forward market prices and is included in sales revenue.
Presentation of comparative consolidated sales revenue is in accordance with the previous standard IAS 18 Revenue Recognition.
No material Rio Tinto has a number of long-term contracts to supply product to measurement or recognition differences on comparative information were customers in future periods.
Generally, revenues are recognised on an identified between IAS 18 and the current standard IFRS 15.
For further asinvoiced basis, hence, the right to consideration from a customer understanding of the impact of the transition to IFRS 15, refer to note 45. corresponds directly with the entitys performance completed to date.
d Currency translation A number of the Groups businesses provide volume discounts in certain The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint circumstances.
The impact of constraining such variable consideration arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic under IFRS 15 was immaterial at 31 December 2018. environment in which that entity operates.
For many of these entities, thisis the currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency does not disclose information on the transaction price allocated to atthe exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets performance obligations that are unsatisfied.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at period-end exchange rates.
Presentation and disclosures Consolidated sales revenue as reported in the income statement comprises The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that sales to third parties.
Certain of the Groups products may be provisionally presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business priced at the date revenue is recognised.
Sales revenue includes revenue performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement from contracts with customers, which is accounted for under IFRS 15 items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US Revenue from Contracts with Customers and subsequent movements dollars at average rates of exchange, except for material one-off inprovisionally priced receivables which are accounted for under IFRS 9 transactions, which are translated at the rate prevailing on the transaction Financial Instruments.
A breakdown of sales revenue between these date.
Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period-end twoamounts is disclosed in the product analysis in note 3 and further exchange rates.
detailon provisional pricing in note 3.
Sales revenue includes revenue frommovements in provisionally priced receivables, consistent with Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities thetreatment in prior periods.
with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are The Group considers that the impact of economic factors on its sales shownin the statement of comprehensive income, with the exception revenue, particularly pricing and volumes, is best understood by reference oftranslation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital, to the disclosure of sales revenue by product group and sales destination in whichare shown in the statement of changes in equity.
The analysis of provisional pricing adjustments by commodity in the product analysis in note 3 shows which products are subject to price Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net volatility post the transfer of control.
With the exception of Oyu Tolgoi, investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are which sells copper concentrate to China, this price uncertainty is largely taken to the currency translation reserve.
resolved at the period end.
Except as noted above, or in note 1 p relating to derivative contracts, Typically, the Group has a right to payment before or at the point that allother exchange differences are charged or credited to the income control of the goods passes including a right, where applicable, to payment statement in the year in which they arise.
for provisionally priced products and unperformed freight and insurance services.
Cash received before control passes is recognised as a contract e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and liability.
The amount of consideration does not contain a significant evaluation expenditure notes 12 and 13 financing component as payment terms are less than one year.
Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are impairment.
Investments in EAUs, including any goodwill, are tested for included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue eg sales of surplus power impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been incidental to the main revenue-generating activities of the operations, identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i. istreated as a credit to operating costs.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life The Group does not disclose sales revenue from freight and insurance intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a services separately as it does not consider that this is necessary in order to straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible understand the impact of economic factors on the Group: the Groups chief assetsthat are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that executive, the chief operating decision maker, as defined under IFRS 8, are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually Operating Segments, does not review information specifically relating to forimpairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances these sources of revenue in order to evaluate the performance of business indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy segments and Group information on these sources of revenue is not note1 i. provided externally.
com 155 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued In the case of undeveloped mining projects that have arisen through The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price consideration may result in based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable undeveloped properties being recognised at an earlier stage of project limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows evaluation compared with projects arising from the Groups exploration and for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the evaluation programme.
Subsequent expenditure on acquired undeveloped existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms or evidence that renewal projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of confidence of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be threshold discussed above.
expected for indefinite future periods in view of the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure for undeveloped on the asset are also considered.
mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group are f Exploration and evaluation note 13 reviewed at each reporting date for indicators of impairment in accordance Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly with IFRS 6, and when indicators that are identified are tested in accordance attributable to: withIAS 36.
Evaluation expenditure for non-mining projects is reviewed Researching and analysing existing exploration data: andtested under IAS 36.
Conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: Examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the Groups Compiling various studies order of magnitude, pre-feasibility intentions to recover value through development, sale or other partnering andfeasibility.
If a project does not prove viable and is cancelled, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any previously Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with recorded impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
Expenditure on exploration activity undertaken bytheGroup is not capitalised.
g Property, plant and equipment note 14 Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as commercially Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure other than that on projects including smelter and refinery projects that have been identified land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in progress is capitalised as having economic potential.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure under Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group from Exploration and evaluation.
willdetermine that a project is commercially viable, that is the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
inthe period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended The Groups view is that a high degree of confidence is greater than more by management, are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the likely than not that is, greater than 50% certainty and less than virtually commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are certain that is, less than 90% certainty.
expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate Assessing whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group payable on project-specific debt if applicable or at the Group or subsidiarys willultimately determine that an evaluation project is commercially viable cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities requires judgment and consideration of all relevant factors such as the that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are nature and objective of the project: the projects current stage: project complete.
It may be appropriate to use a subsidiarys cost of borrowing timeline: current estimates of the projects net present value, including when the debt was negotiated based on the financing requirements sensitivity analyses for the key assumptions: and the main risks of the ofthatsubsidiary.
Development expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less confidence that the Group will ultimately determine that a project is accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
ofproperty, plant and equipment includes, where applicable, the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the h Deferred stripping note 14 case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials when the current source of ore is exhausted or when existing smelters or mustbe removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted refineries are closed.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials isreferred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or, in some Ore reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its instances, pit: see below, before production commences, stripping costs commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may related to a component of an orebody are capitalised as part of the cost of continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently amortised over the reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are applied accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
consistently from period to period.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, thesecond and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit inaccounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping ieoverburden and other waste removal of the second and subsequent pitsis considered to be production phase stripping see below.
com Financial statements The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered some mines, other mineral resources may also have an impact on the separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific life-of-component ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access theindividual pits being accounted for separately: additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted thefirst phase has taken place.
Where applicable, the Group considers this  that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
Generally, the only ore attributed to the stripping If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life-of-component ratio, than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
andfor the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be extracted from the If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning originally identified component.
andthe sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather thanasanintegrated unit.
Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and within Property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity subsequent pits are relatively large.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather is included in Depreciation of property, plant and equipment within Net thanfrom a single orebody.
operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from several pits combined, including i Depreciation and impairment notes 13 and 14 the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits, then this would Depreciation of non-current assets point to treatment as an integrated operation for the purposes of Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over accounting for initial stripping costs.
The relative importance of each of the theremaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and above factors is considered in eachcase.
there is no reasonable alternative use for the asset by the Group.
In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation The useful lives of the major assets of a CGU are often dependent on the asa stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is thecase, the lives of It must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access long-lived processing equipment are generally limited to the expected life tothe orebody: of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, isestimated on the basis of It must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets ofa CGU are not dependent whichaccess has been improved: and on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in It must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
affecting the remaining service potential of smelters include, for example, smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when power is not A component is a specific section of the orebody that is made more sourced from the companys, or in some cases a local governments, accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the renewably sourced electricity generating capacity.
largerorebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life forexample, a pushback.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of assets are reviewed annually and changes are reflected prospectively.
Production phase stripping can give rise to two benefits: the extraction of ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be extracted Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major in future periods.
When the cost of stripping which has a future benefit is categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units not distinguishable from the cost of producing current inventories, the of production and or straight line basis as follows: stripping cost is allocated to each of these activities based on a relevant production measure using a life-of-component strip ratio.
The ratio divides Units of production basis the tonnage of waste mined for the component for the period either by the For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, quantity of ore mined for the component or by the quantity of minerals consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to production.
contained in the ore mined for the component.
In some operations, the Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on the units of quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for allocating costs, particularly production basis.
where there are significant by-products.
Stripping costs for the component are deferred to the extent that the current period ratio exceeds the life of In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally component ratio.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated on a units of calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total production basis based on expected production of either ore or minerals expected production in current and future periods based on ore reserves contained in the ore over the life of the component unless another method and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Other mineral resources is more appropriate.
maybe included in the calculations of total expected production in limitedcircumstances where there are very large areas of contiguous The life-of-component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual mine plan: variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and they are a function of the mine design and, therefore, changes to that industrial minerals deposits and where there is a high degree of confidence design will generally result in changes to the ratios.
Changes in other that the other mineral resources can be extracted economically.
This would technical or economic parameters that impact the ore reserves and for be the case when the other mineral resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources in the calculation of total expected production is appropriate based on historical reserve conversion rates.
com 157 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued When the recoverable amount of the CGU is measured by reference to The required level of confidence is unlikely to exist for minerals that are FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance with the fair value typically found in low-grade ore as compared with the above, such as hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent with the unit of copper or gold.
In these cases, specific areas of mineralisation have to be account for the CGU being tested.
The Group considers that the best evaluated in detail before their economic status can be predicted with evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained from an active market or binding confidence.
sale agreement and, in this case, the recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1.
When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of equity instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit in the market, the recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair current and future mines, then the measured and indicated resources may value hierarchy.
No CGUs are currently assessed for impairment by relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where there is reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 1 or a high degree of confidence that they will be brought into production in the level 2. future.
The quantum of mineral resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the JORC code.
The depreciation Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the calculation, however, applies to current mines only and does not take into recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available account future development costs for mines that are not yet in production.
to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the CGU in an orderly Measured and indicated resources are currently incorporated into transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
depreciation calculations in the Groups Australian iron ore business.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Straight line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis.
detailed life-of-mine and or long-term production plans.
These may include anticipated expansions which are at the evaluation stage of study.
Impairment charges reversals of non-current assets Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cashThe cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on managements generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of assets that cash costs of production, capital expenditure, and closure, restoration and generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows environmental costs.
For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a market from other assets.
Separate CGUs are identified where an active market participants perspective, the cash flows incorporate managements price exists for intermediate products, even if the majority of those products are and cost assumptions in the short and medium term.
In the longer term, further processed internally.
Impairment of financial assets isevaluated in operating margins are assumed to remain constant where appropriate, as accordance with IAS 39. itis considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash flow forecasts may include net cash In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations with flows expected to be realised from the extraction, processing and sale of independent cash-generating streams which constitute separate CGUs.
material that does not currently qualify for inclusion in ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included when there is a high degree of Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the CGU confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the related business onpreliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are combination, and tested for impairment at the lowest level within the contiguous with existing ore reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
required to achieve reserves status for such material has not yet been All goodwill, intangible assets that have an indefinite life and intangible donebecause this would involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than assets that are not ready for use are tested annually for impairment as at isrequired for the efficient planning and operation of the mine.
30 September, regardless of whether there has been an impairment trigger or, more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate a As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for potential impairment.
FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term production plan for the CGU.
This differs from value in use which requires Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its current condition and reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount therefore does not include future cash flows associated with improving or may not be recoverable.
The Group conducts an internal review of the asset enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of information may be included in FVLCD calculations and, therefore, generally result in to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised a higher value.
External factors, such as changes in forecasted commodity prices, costs and other market factors as well as internal factors Where the recoverable amount of a CGU is dependent on the life of its such as cancellation of a project or reduced project scope, are also associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the current life monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously of mine and or long-term production plans, which are based on detailed recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication exists then an research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return impairment review is undertaken: the recoverable amount is assessed by from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The mine plan takes reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste-toexpected future cash flows of the relevant CGU in its current condition ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical and fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD.
properties of the ore impacting process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan and or long-term production plans are, therefore, the basis for forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
com Financial statements Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are j Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates generally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which assume The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on short-term market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most withthe JORC code.
commodities, these forecast commodity prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources determined theincentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often differ inthis way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and from current price levels and are updated periodically.
The Group does not impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of believe that published mediumand long-term forward prices necessarily close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
provide a good indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly The depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in which influenced by spot prices.
The price forecasts used for ore reserve mineral resources are taken into account for accounting purposes.
estimation are generally consistent with those used for impairment testing Inaddition, value may be attributed to mineral resources in purchase unless management deems that in certain economic environments, a priceallocations undertaken for the purposes of business market participant would not assume Rio Tintos view on prices, in which .
case in preparing FVLCD impairment calculations management estimates the assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which Forecast future cash flows of a CGU take into account the sales prices include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of under existing sales contracts.
residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and certain refineries and smelters.
These provisions are based on all regulatory The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders.
estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no known estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
capital is generally used as a starting point for determining the discount This applies primarily to certain Canadian smelters which have indefiniterates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in lived water rights or power agreements for renewably sourced power with which the individual CGUs operate, weighted for gold content.
feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Groups weighted average cost of capital, are Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining used.
For developments funded with project finance, the debt component orproduction, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure ofthe weighted average cost of capital may be calculated by reference to is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
the specific interest rate of the project finance and anticipated leverage Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups ofthe project.
businesses estimate their costs using current restoration standards andtechniques.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
In Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts of exchange rates take into account periodwhen the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are kept based on the net present value of the estimated future costs of restoration constant in real terms after five years.
The great majority of the Groups to be incurred during the life of the operation and post-closure.
Where sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that appropriate, the provision is estimated using probability weighting of the thecurrencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities different remediation and closure scenarios.
The obligation may occur strengthen against the US dollar without an increase in commodity prices, during development or during the production phase of a facility.
cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the additional obligations that are expected to arise from future disturbance.
value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are reviewed at arenot synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating each reporting period during the life of the operation to reflect known valuein use, the present value of future cash flows in foreign currencies developments.
The estimates are also subject to formal review, with istranslated at the spot exchange rate on the testing date.
appropriate external support, at regular intervals.
Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered impairment are The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within reviewed using the same basis for valuation as explained above whenever Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the closeevents or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment loss may down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, including those no longer exist, or may have decreased.
If appropriate, an impairment resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities reversal will be recognised.
The carrying amount of the CGU after reversal qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, changes to the must be the lower of a the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities b the carrying amount that would have been determined net of and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, plant amortisation or depreciation had no impairment lossbeen recognised for and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the the CGU in prior periods.
assets to which they relate.
Changes in closure provisions relating to closed operations are charged credited to Net operating costs in the income An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent statement.
Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is made when operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the the assets dedicated to the contract are fully impaired or the contract estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance becomes stranded as a result of a business decision.
sheet date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
com 159 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued n Post-employment benefits note 44 The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
lumpsums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within Finance items in the Inaccordance with IAS 19, for post-employment defined benefit plans, income statement.
thedifference between the fair value of any plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a balance sheet.
necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the value of such costs at the balance sheet date.
These costs are charged present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of toNet operating costs, except for the unwinding of the discount, refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
In determining which isshown within Finance items.
the extent to which a refund will be available the Group considers whether any third party, such as a trustee or pension committee, has the power to Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the enhance benefits or to wind up a pension plan without the Groups consent.
disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
the discount rate, the inflation rate and mortality rates.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the obligations, the interest cost l Inventories note 16 on the obligations and the interest income on plan assets.
The discount Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, rate used is the yield on high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated terms that match those of the post-employment obligations as closely as byreference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together possible.
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a currency, with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw materials and consumable the rate on government bonds is used.
The inflation rate is used to project stores is the purchase price.
The cost of partly-processed and saleable increases in future benefit payments for those plans that have benefits products is generally the cost of production, including: linked to inflation.
The mortality rates are used to project the period over Labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly which benefits will be paid, which is then discounted to arrive at the net attributable to the extraction and processing of ore or the production present value of the obligations.
ofalumina and aluminium The depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore or the curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement.
production of alumina and aluminium Theinterest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also Production overheads charged to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plans are included within Net operating Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available appropriate.
If there is significant uncertainty as to if and or when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as mined.
If the The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the ore will not be processed within 12 months after the balance sheet date, it income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
These are is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated included within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed equity accounted units, as appropriate.
primarily through surveys and assays.
Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries, are calculated using available industry, o Cash and cash equivalents note 21 engineering and scientific data, and are periodically reassessed For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise: takingintoaccount technical analysis and historical performance.
cash on hand, deposits held with banks, and short-term, highly liquid investments mainly money market funds that are readily convertible m Taxation note 9 and note 17 intoknown amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for ofchanges in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in theyear calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively thebalance sheet.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Where the Further detail on cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes isshown in note 21. provisions based on the Groups judgment of the most likely amount of theliability, or recovery.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12.
The Group provides for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions including p Financial instruments note 30 mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
The Group has elected to apply the limited exemption in IFRS 9 relating Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying toclassification, measurement and impairment requirements for financial value of the asset and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even when instruments, and accordingly comparative periods have not been restated there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax and remain in line with the previous standard IAS 39 Financial purposes is not usually taken into account in determining the deferred tax Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
For further understanding provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale or it is ofthe impact of the transition to IFRS 9, refer to note 45. determined for other reasons that the carrying amount is expected to be recovered primarily through disposal and not through use of the assets.
com Financial statements i Financial assets c Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss FVPL Classification and measurement This classification applies to the following financial assets.
In all cases, The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: those transaction costs are immediately expensed to the income statement.
to be measured subsequently at fair value either through other Debt instruments that do not meet the criteria of amortised cost or fair comprehensive income FVOCI or through the income statement FVPL value through other comprehensive income.
The Group has a significant and those to be held at amortised cost.
proportion of trade receivables with embedded derivatives for provisional pricing.
These receivables are generally held to collect but do not meet Classification depends on the business model for managing the financial the SPPI criteria and as a result must be held at FVPL.
Subsequent fair assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
Equity investments which are held for trading or where the FVOCI Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial election has not been applied.
All fair value gains or losses and related recognition.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is dividend income are recognised in the income statement.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for Derivatives which are not designated as a hedging instrument.
the purpose of selling in the short term.
Allsubsequent fair value gains or losses are recognised in the incomestatement.
The Groups business model is primarily that of hold to collect where assets are held in order to collect contractual cash flows.
When the Group ii Financial liabilities enters into derivative contracts, these transactions are designed to reduce Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but exposures relating to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net anticipated transactions.
oftransaction costs incurred, and are subsequently measured at amortisedcost.
a Financial assets held at amortised cost This classification applies to debt instruments which are held under The Group participates in supply chain finance arrangements whereby a holdto collect business model and which have cash flows that meet vendors may elect to receive early payment of their invoice from a bank thesolely payments of principal and interest SPPI criteria.
byfactoring their receivable from Rio Tinto.
These arrangements do not modify the terms of the original liability, and therefore financial liabilities At initial recognition, trade receivables that do not have a significant subject to supply chain finance continue to be classified as trade payables.
financing component, are recognised at their transaction price.
Other financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus related iii Impairment of financial assets transactioncosts: they are subsequently measured at amortised cost A forward-looking expected credit loss ECL review is required for: debt usingthe effective interest method.
Any gain or loss on derecognition instruments measured at amortised cost or held at fair value through other ormodification of a financial asset held at amortised cost is recognised comprehensive income: loan commitments and financial guarantees not inthe income statement.
measured at fair value through profit or loss: lease receivables and trade receivables that give rise to an unconditional right to consideration.
b F inancial assets held at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI As permitted by IFRS 9, the Group applies the simplified approach to This classification applies to the following financial assets: trade receivable balances and the general approach to all other financial Debt instruments that are held under a business model where they assets.
The general approach incorporates a review for any significant areheld for the collection of contractual cash flows and also for sale increase incounterparty credit risk since inception.
The ECL reviews collect and sell and which have cash flows that meet the SPPI includeassumptions about the risk of default and expected loss rates.
An example would be where trade receivable invoices for Fortradereceivables, the assessment takes into account the use of certaincustomers were factored from time to time.
creditenhancements, for example, letters of credit.
Impairments for All movements in the fair value of these financial assets are taken undrawn loancommitments are reflected as a provision.
through other comprehensive income, except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest revenue including transaction iv Derivatives and hedge accounting costsby applying the effective interest method, gains or losses arising The Group applies the hedge accounting requirements under IFRS 9 and on derecognition and foreign exchange gains and losses which are itshedging activities are discussed in note 30 with movements on hedging recognised in the income statement.
When the financial asset is reserves disclosed in note 29.
Where applicable, the Group may defer the derecognised, the cumulative fair value gain or loss previously costs of hedging including currency basis spreads, forward points and the recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to the time value of options.
Equity investments where the Group has irrevocably elected to present q Share-based payments note 43 fair value gains and losses on revaluation in other comprehensive The fair value of the Groups share plans is recognised as an expense income.
The election can be made for each individual investment: over the expected vesting period with an offset to retained earnings for however, it is not applicable to equity investments held for trading.
Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
Fair value gains or losses on revaluation of such equity investments, including any foreign exchange component, are recognised in other The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated comprehensive income.
When the equity investment is derecognised, using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo thereis no reclassification of fair value gains or losses previously simulation model.
recognised in other comprehensive income to the income statement.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right toreceivepayment is established.
com 161 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Generally, discounted cash flow models are used to determine the The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to recoverable amount of CGUs.
In this case, significant judgment is required determine whether the plan should be accounted for as equity-settled to determine the appropriate estimates and assumptions used and there is orcash-settled.
The Group does not operate any plans as cash-settled.
In particular, for fair value less costs of However, the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the disposal valuations, judgment is required to determine the estimates a directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
This is not market participant would use.
The discounted cash flow model is most standard practice.
In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cashsensitive to the following estimates: the timing of project expansions: settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local thecost to complete asset construction: long-term commodity prices: lawsandregulations.
The value of these awards is immaterial.
production timing and recovery rates: exchange rates: operating costs: reserve estimates: closure costs and discount rates and, in some instances, The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issuance the renewal of mining licences.
Some of these variables are unique to an ofshares by the relevant parent company: the purchase of shares on individual CGU.
Future changes in these variables may differ from market: or the use of shares held in treasury which were previously managements expectations and may materially alter the recoverable acquiredas part of a share buy-back.
If the cost of shares acquired to amounts of the CGUs.
satisfythe plans differs from the expense charged, the difference is takentoretained earnings or other reserves, as appropriate.
Note i above also describes the Groups methodology for estimating long-term commodity prices, exchange rates and discount rates for r Share capital notes 27 and 28 impairment testing purposes.
Note 6 outlines the significant judgments, Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly assumptions and sensitivities made for both measuring the impairments attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity recorded and for determining whether reversal of part or all of a previous as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Judgments, assumptions and sensitivities inrelation to the testing of CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital intangible assets are outlined in notes 12 and 13 respectively.
treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity ii Estimation of asset lives attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives and therefore reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable norelated depreciation or amortisation charge if, in the Groups judgment, incremental costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
If purchased Rio Tinto plc shares are to generate cash flows.
Factors that are considered in making this judgment cancelled, an amount equal to the nominal value of the cancelled share include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms or evidence iscredited to the capital redemption reserve.
that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental costs can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups s Segment reporting notes 2 and 3 investment intentions.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The The useful lives of the major assets of a CGU are often dependent on the Group considers that Rio Tintos chief executive is the CODM, who is life of the orebody to which they relate.
The life of the orebody will be responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the determined on the basis of the life-of-mine plan, which is based on the operating segments.
estimates of ore reserves as described on page 271.
Critical accounting policies and estimates iii Provision for onerous contracts i Determination of CGUs, assessment of indicators of impairment, Provision for an onerous contract is made only when the assets dedicated review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and to that contract are fully impaired or the contract becomes stranded as a the recoverability of goodwill notes 6, 12 and 13 result of a business decision.
Judgment is required in determining which Impairment is assessed at the CGU level.
A CGU isthe smallest assets are considered dedicated to a contract when there is optionality identifiable asset or group of assets that generates independent cash astohow the contract obligations can be settled.
Key estimates are the inflows.
Judgment is applied to identify the Groups CGUs, particularly cash flows associated with the contract and the discount rate assumption.
when assets belong to integrated operations, and changes in CGUs could The Group completed the disposal of its remaining coking coal assets in impact impairment charges and reversals.
The mostsignificant examples 2018 and has retained the onerous provisions made in past periods for of this judgment are the grouping of the Weipa bauxite mine and the railinfrastructure take or pay contracts which were considered stranded.
Gladstone alumina refineries Yarwun and QAL in Queensland, Australia Refer to note 37.
As at 31 December 2018, the balance of the provision and of Rio Tinto Fer et Titane in Quebec, Canada andQIT Madagascar wasUS$324 million.
Minerals QMM into combined CGUs on the basis thatthey are vertically integrated operations with no active market for either bauxite or ilmenite.
iv Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 Management reviews these judgments on an annual basis as part of the Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs annual internal review of asset values as described in note i above.
when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs required to satisfy the obligation.
Management uses its External and internal factors are monitored for indicators of impairment and judgment and experience to determine the potential scope of closure include an annual internal review of asset values as described in note i rehabilitation work required to meet the Groups legal, statutory and above.
Judgment is required to determine whether the impact of adverse constructive obligations, and any other commitments made to spot commodity price movements is significant and structural in nature.
stakeholders, and the options and techniques available to meet those There were no material instances of this judgment as at 31 December 2018. obligations and estimate the associated costs and the likely timing of those costs.
Significant judgment is also required to determine both the costs associated with that work and the other assumptions used to calculate the provision.
External experts support the cost estimation process where appropriate but there remains significant estimation uncertainty.
com Financial statements The key judgment in applying this accounting policy is determining when The expected timing of expenditure can also change for other reasons, for anestimate is sufficiently reliable to make or adjust a closure provision.
example because of changes to expectations around ore reserves and mineral resources, production rates, renewal of operating licences or Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no known economic conditions.
restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain Canadian smelters which have indefiniteAs noted in note k above, changes in closure and restoration provisions lived water rights or power agreements for renewably sourced power with forongoing operations other than the impact relating to current year local governments.
production are capitalised and therefore will impact assets and liabilities but have no impact on equity at the time the change is made.
However, Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation: generally these changes will impact depreciation and the unwind of discount in future cost estimates must comply with the Groups Capital Project Framework years.
Changes in closure estimates at the Groups ongoing operations once the operation is ten years from expected closure.
This means, for could result in a material adjustment to assets and liabilities in the next example, that where an Order of Magnitude OoM study is required for 12months.
closure it must be of the same standard as an OoM study for a new mine, smelter or refinery.
As at 31 December 2018, there are 13 operations with Changes to closure cost estimates for closed operations, and changes to remaining lives of under ten years before taking into account unapproved environmental cost estimates at any operation, would impact equity: extensions: the largest of these is Rio Tinto Kennecott for which a however, the Group does not consider that there is significant risk of a pre-feasibility study is expected to be concluded in the next 24 months.
change in estimates for these liabilities causing a material adjustment to Adjustments are made to provisions when the range of possible outcomes equity in the next 12 months.
Any new environmental incidents may require becomes sufficiently narrow to permit reliable estimation.
Depending on the a material provision but cannot be predicted.
materiality of the change, adjustments may require review and endorsement by the Groups Closure Steering Committee before the provision is updated.
Cash flow estimates must be discounted at the risk-free interest rate if this has a material effect on the provision.
The selection of appropriate sources In some cases, the closure study may indicate that monitoring and, on which to base the calculation of the risk-free discount rate requires potentially, remediation will be required in perpetuity.
In this case, the judgment.
The 2% real rate currently used by the Group is based on a provision may be restricted to a period for which the costs can be reliably number of inputs including observable historic yields on 30 year US estimated: on average this is around 30 years for operations in closure.
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities TIPS, and recommendations byindependent valuation experts.
The most significant assumptions and estimates used in calculating the provision are: v Deferral of stripping costs note 14 Timeframes.
The weighted average remaining lives of operations is shown Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase in note 26 c. Some expenditure may be incurred before closure whilst of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a mine and the operation as a whole is in production.
The length of any post-closure of the life of component strip ratios requires judgment and is dependent on monitoring period will depend on the specific site requirements: an individual mines design and the estimates inherent within that.
Changes someexpenditure can continue into perpetuity.
to that design may introduce new components and or change the life of The probability weighting of possible closure scenarios.
The most component strip ratios.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters significant impact of probability weighting is at the Pilbara operations that impact ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component Iron Ore relating to infrastructure and incorporates the possibility that strip ratios, even if they do not affect the mines design.
Changes to the life some infrastructure may be retained by the relevant State authorities of component strip ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The assignment of probabilities to this scenario reduces theclosure provision by US$0.8 billion.
The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered Appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of discount rate.
At 31 December 2018 the carrying value of the close-down, apit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and, restoration and environmental provision was US$9,975 million.
The therefore, the amortisation base for those costs.
The analysis depends on change in carrying value of the provision which would result if the real each mines specific circumstances and requires judgment: another mining discount rate was 0.5% lower than that assumed by management company could make a different judgment even when the fact pattern isshown in note 26. appears to be similar.
There is significant estimation uncertainty in the calculation of vi Uncertain tax positions theprovision and cost estimates can vary in response to many The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to factorsincluding: periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during Changes to the relevant legal or local national government requirements the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and and any other commitments made to stakeholders transaction-related issues.
Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable Review of remediation and relinquishment options isuncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on the Groups Additional remediation requirements identified during the rehabilitation interpretation of tax law and judgment of the most likely amount of the The emergence of new restoration techniques liability, or recovery.
An alternative approach under current standards is Change in the expected closure date touse a weighted average of various possible scenarios.
The weighted Change in the discount rate average approach is required under IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax The effects of inflation Treatments which is mandatory in 2019 although for issues with a binary outcome, the most likely amount method can continue to be applied.
Experience gained at other mine or production sites may also change The impact on the Group of implementing IFRIC 23 is currently expected expected methods or costs of closure, although elements of the restoration to beimmaterial as noted on page 150. and rehabilitation of each site are relatively unique to a site.
Generally, there is relatively limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent elsewhere in the Group, or in the industry as a whole, against which to benchmark cost estimates.
com 163 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous vii Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in the The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, mainly assumptions are set out in note 44. in Australian, Canadian, French, US and Mongolian taxable entities, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have x Contingencies note 31 been recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of to the availability of sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the any loss arising is considered remote based on the Groups judgment and same taxation authority and the same taxable entity, the estimates of legal advice.
Contingent liabilities are quantified unless, in the Groups projected future taxable income of these taxable entities and after taking judgment, the amount cannot be reliably estimated.
account of specific risk factors that are expected to affect the recovery of these assets including the risk of expiry of losses.
Further information on xi Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 deferred tax assets is given in note 17.
Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether after considering all relevant factors, the Group has control, joint control or significant influence In addition to the risk of expiry of losses the projections on which recovery of over an entity or arrangement.
Other companies may make different tax losses are based are subject to the same estimation uncertainty as noted judgments regarding the same entity or arrangement.
Significant influence in i above in relation to impairment.
The key judgment in the application of includes situations of collective control see note 36 a. this accounting policy is the recognition of deferred tax assets for losses where the operation is not currently profitable for tax purposes.
xii Exclusions from underlying earnings note 2 As set out in note 2, certain items are excluded from net earnings loss viii Identification of functional currencies inarriving at underlying earnings in each period irrespective of materiality.
The functional currency for each subsidiary, unincorporated arrangement, Inaddition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where joint operation and equity accounted unit, is the currency of the primary applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order currency involves significant judgment and other companies may make to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
different judgments based on similar facts.
For many of Rio Tintos businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the country in The exclusion of the impact of changes in closure estimates at Argyle and whichthey operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currency of ERA, the operating assets of each having previously been fully impaired, and itsbusinesses if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events a gain relating to the lease and sale of surplus land at Kitimat were the only orconditions which determine their primary economic environment.
judgments in this respect in 2018.
The determination of functional currency is a key judgment which affects the xiii Pilbara Iron arrangements measurement of non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a The arrangements described in note 34 c to the accounts permit each consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income ofthepartners to the joint operation to request the other to construct assets statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income on their tenure to widen the capacity of the network.
The requesting partners statement and in equity.
The Group applies judgment to determine whether Asset Users share of the capacity of the network will increase bythe or not certain intragroup loans are likely to be repaid in the foreseeable future capacity of the newly constructed asset but, generally, that capacity may be and therefore whether the associated exchange gains and losses can be taken provided from any of the network assets.
The Asset User will pay anannual to equity.
During 2018, A$14 billion of intragroup loans continued to meet charge Committed Use Charge CUC over a contractually specified period these criteria and associated exchange gains weretaken to equity.
irrespective of usage of the network.
The constructing partner AssetOwner has an ongoing obligation to make available capacity from those assets ix Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 44 andto maintain the assets in good working order as required under The value of the Groups obligations for post-employment benefits is relevantState Agreements and associated tenure.
dependent on the amount of benefits that are expected to be paid out, discounted to the balance sheet date.
The discount rate is a key assumption The Group considered whether the CUC arrangements give rise to a lease and is based upon the yields on high-quality corporate bonds in the relevant between the Asset Owner and the Asset User under the current lease currency which have durations consistent with the term of the obligations.
accounting standards IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements arrangement contains a lease.
The conclusion that they do not is because in corporate bond yields, but at any given measurement datethere is there is no specified asset, rather the Asset User has a first priority right to relatively little estimation uncertainty.
This rate is also usedtocalculate the capacity in the CUC asset.
This treatment has been grandfathered on theinterest cost on obligations and interest income onplan assets.
Management considers that these arrangements are unique and has used judgement to apply the principles of IFRS to the The following key assumptions are used to calculate the estimated benefit: accounting for the arrangements as described above.
The obligation of the future pay increases to be received by members of final pay plans, the level Asset Owner to make capacity available is fulfilled over time and not at a ofinflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation point in time.
The CUC arrangement is therefore an executory contract protection, current mortality rates and future improvements in mortality asdefined under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent rates.
The assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields assets whereby neither party has performed any of its obligations, or both oninflation-linked instruments, where possible, combined with consensus parties have partially performed their obligations to an equal extent, and so views.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major the CUC payments areexpensed as incurred.
An alternative treatment would pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current have resulted inagross presentation in the Groups balance sheet with an mortality assumptions.
It also uses its judgment with respect to allowances asset and a corresponding liability to reflect the present value of the CUC for future improvements in longevity having regard to standard improvement payments.
TheAsset User is awholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto, whereas scales in each relevant country and after takingexternal actuarial advice.
the AssetOwner is a joint operation.
This impact would be some US$2 billion calculated on the basis of grossing up the written down value of the CUC Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants assets.
Other methods of calculating the gross up might give rise to and the majority of the obligations relate to former employees.
value of the Groups post-employment obligations is therefore less sensitive to assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future inflation.
com Financial statements 2 Operating segments Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups in the tables below together with the global functions that support the business, which include Growth & Innovation.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive ofRio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures, including underlying earnings, underlying EBITDA, capitalexpenditure, operating cash flow and free cash flow.
Finance costs and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy & Minerals product group includes businesses withproducts such as uranium, borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with coal operations prior to the divestment of these assets, IronOre Company of Canada and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Energy & Minerals product group chief executive.
TheCopper & Diamonds product group also produces gold, silver, molybdenum and other by-products.
The financial information by business unit provided on pages 249 to 251 of these financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure which theGroup considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
2018 2017 2016 Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 18,485 18,251 14,605 Aluminium 12,191 11,005 9,458 Copper & Diamonds 6,468 4,842 4,524 Energy & Minerals 5,697 7,764 6,734 Other Operations 9 10 8 Reportable segments total 42,850 41,872 35,329 Inter-segment transactions 15 15 11 Product group total 42,835 41,857 35,318 Items excluded from underlying earnings 10 18 Gross sales revenue 42,835 41,867 35,336 Share of equity accounted unit sales and adjustments for intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 2,313 1,837 1,555 Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 40,522 40,030 33,781 Gross sales revenue includes the Groups proportionate share of sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries ofUS$2,354 million 2017: US$1,859 million: 2016: US$1,585 million which are not included in consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenueincludes subsidiary sales of US$41 million 2017: US$22 million: 2016: US$30 million to equity accounted units which are not included ingrosssales revenue.
2018 2017 2016 Capital expenditure US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 1,288 1,201 868 Aluminium 1,373 1,436 916 Copper & Diamonds 2,150 1,622 1,441 Energy & Minerals 456 467 141 Other Operations 12 35 11 Reportable segments total 5,279 4,691 3,355 Other items 65 70 46 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 500 417 651 Capital expenditure per financial information by business unit 4,844 4,344 2,658 Add back: proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 586 138 354 Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 5,430 4,482 3,012 Capital expenditure for reportable segments comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100% of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of joint operations and equity accounted units.
2018 2017 2016 Depreciation and amortisation US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 1,682 1,645 1,645 Aluminium 1,122 1,199 1,250 Copper & Diamonds 1,317 1,452 1,601 Energy & Minerals 475 652 739 Other Operations 26 32 34 Reportable segments total 4,622 4,980 5,269 Other items 43 42 51 Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 650 647 526 Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,015 4,375 4,794 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 165 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued Product group depreciation and amortisation for reportable segments totals include 100% of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation, excluding equity accounted units, as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges and reversals, which are excluded from underlying earnings.
2018 2017 2016 Tax charge credit US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 2,819 2,871 2,005 Aluminium 532 543 171 Copper & Diamonds 118 48 320 Energy & Minerals 511 652 331 Other Operations 51 84 73 Reportable segments total 3,929 4,030 2,114 Other items 276 261 191 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 38 36 27 Net finance costs 174 364 484 3,441 3,369 1,412 Tax charge excluded from underlying earnings 801 596 155 Tax charge per income statement 4,242 3,965 1,567 Tax charge credit excludes amounts relating to equity accounted units.
Further information on the tax charge credit excluded from underlying earnings is provided in the section Underlying earnings, below.
2018 2017 2016 Underlying EBITDA US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 11,325 11,520 8,526 Aluminium 3,095 3,423 2,472 Copper & Diamonds 2,776 1,904 1,387 Energy & Minerals 2,193 2,803 1,806 Other Operations 70 116 95 Reportable segments total 19,319 19,534 14,096 Central pension costs, share-based payments and insurance 128 68 34 Restructuring, project and one-off costs 272 177 13 Central costs 552 491 364 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 231 218 175 Underlying EBITDA 18,136 18,580 13,510 Items excluded from underlying EBITDA 5,127 1,912 687 EBITDA 23,263 20,492 12,823 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges in subsidiaries and equity accounted units 4,691 5,746 5,466 Taxation and finance items in equity accounted units 372 272 241 Profit on ordinary activities before finance items and tax 18,200 14,474 7,116 2018 2017 2016 Underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 6,514 6,692 4,611 Aluminium 1,347 1,583 947 Copper & Diamonds 1,054 263 18 Energy & Minerals 1,012 1,242 612 Other Operations 102 138 88 Reportable segments total 9,825 9,642 6,064 Central pension costs, share-based payments and insurance 90 48 24 Restructuring, project and one-off costs 190 124 9 Central costs 410 311 208 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 193 178 147 Net finance costs 134 354 576 Underlying earnings 8,808 8,627 5,100 Items excluded from underlying earnings 4,830 135 483 Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 13,638 8,762 4,617 166 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Underlying EBITDA and underlying earnings are reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of itsoperations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
The measures of underlying EBITDA and underlying earnings, in conjunction with net cash generated from operating activities and capital expenditure net of proceeds on disposals, are used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings and netearnings both represent amounts net of tax attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded from net earnings in arriving at underlying earnings in each period irrespective of materiality: Net gains losses on disposal of interests in businesses.
Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, unrealised gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting, unrealised gains losses on certain commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting, and unrealised gains losses on embedded derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the EBITDA impact of the same items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and the Groups share of the underlying earnings of equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount on provisions.
Rio Tintos share of the underlying earnings of equity accounted units amounted to US$513 million in 2018 2017: US$332 million: 2016: US$309 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$476 million profit to the Copper & Diamonds product group and US$38 million profit to other product groups 2017: US$295 million profit to the Copper & Diamonds product group and US$37 million profit to other product groups: 2016: US$272 million profit totheCopper & Diamonds product group and US$37 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts are included in underlying earnings and includethe underlying earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
Reconciliation of net earnings losses to underlying earnings Non-controlling Net Net Net m Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2016 Exclusions from underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Impairment charges note 6 132 25 3 104 481 183 a Net gains on consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses 4,622 626 3,996 2,022 382 Exchange and derivative gains losses : Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt, intragroup balances b andderivatives 694 136 8 550 488 516 Losses gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying c forhedge accounting 59 11 48 30 12 Gains losses on embedded commodity derivatives not qualifying d forhedgeaccounting 288 83 3 202 352 32 Losses from increases to closure estimates non-operating and fully e impairedsites 376 41 335 282 f Gain relating to surplus land at Kitimat 602 33 569 g Changes in corporate tax rates in the US and France 439 h Onerous port and rail contracts 329 Restructuring costs and global headcount reductions 177 i Rio Tinto Kennecott insurance settlement 45 j Tax provision 380 k Tax charge relating to expected divestments 202 l Other exclusions 50 Total excluded from underlying earnings 5,639 801 8 4,830 135 483 Net earnings 18,167 4,242 287 13,638 8,762 4,617 Underlying earnings 12,528 3,441 279 8,808 8,627 5,100 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 167 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued a O n 10 May 2018, Rio Tinto and Alcoa announced they had launched a new joint venture, Elysis, to develop and commercialise a carbon-free aluminium smelting process.
Rio Tintos interest in the joint venture has been accounted for using the equity method.
The patents contributed and intellectual property licensed to the arrangement by Rio Tinto had no carrying value, and therefore a gain has been recognised for the fair value uplift on formation of the arrangement.
This gain has been reduced so that it only represents the proportion contributed by outside shareholders, resulting in a pre-tax gain of US$171 million US$141 million after tax.
On 1 August 2018, a pre-tax gain of US$1,141 million US$836 million after tax was recognised on the sale of the Hail Creek coal mine and a pre-tax gain of US$1,010 million US$724 million after tax was recognised on the sale of the Kestrel underground coal mine.
On 14 December 2018, a pre-tax gain of US$128 million US$122 million after tax was recognised on the sale of the Dunkerque aluminium smelter.
On 21 December 2018, a pre-tax gain of US$2,146 million was recognised on the sale of Grasberg.
No tax is payable on this gain.
Amounts relating to the sale of undeveloped properties, Winchester South and Valeria, are included within underlying earnings.
In 2017, the net gain related mainly to the sale of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, which completed on 1 September 2017.
In 2016, the net gain related mainly to the sale of Rio Tintos 40% interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture on 1 March 2016 and the sale of the Lochaber assets in Scotland on 23 November 2016.
This was partially offset by a loss on disposal of the 100% interest in Carbone Savoie on 31 March 2016. b E xchange gains losses on external US dollar net debt and intragroup balances comprise of post-tax foreign exchange losses on US dollar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional currency companies of US$386 million loss and post-tax gains of US$936 million on intragroup balances, primarily as a result of the Australian and Canadian dollars both weakening against theUS dollar.
Net exchange gains in 2017 comprise post-tax foreign exchange gains of US$420 million on US dollar denominated net debt, and US$908 million losses on intragroup balances.
Net exchange gains in 2016 comprise post-tax foreign exchange gains of US$123 million on external US dollar denominated net debt, and US$393 million gains on intragroup balances, mainlyas the Canadian dollar strengthened against the US dollar.
c V aluation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives, which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and the currency revaluation ofembedded US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
d V aluation changes on derivatives, embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings.
From1January 2018, all mark-to-market movements on commodity derivatives entered into with the commercial objective of achieving spot pricing for the underlying transaction at the dateofsettlement are now included within underlying earnings.
In 2017 and previous years, valuation changes on this type of commodity derivative were excluded from underlying earnings.
The impact of this change on the reported comparatives is insignificant, and therefore the comparatives have not been restated.
e T he pre-feasibility study for the Argyle mine closure was completed in late 2018, resulting in an increase to the closure provision.
As the assets at Argyle have been fully impaired, this increasehas not been capitalised and has instead been recognised in the income statement.
The impairment charge in respect of Argyle recognised in 2017 see note 6 was based on preliminary findings from the pre-feasibility study.
On this basis, the charge arising from the finalisation of this study in 2018 of US$134 million US$93 million after tax has been  earnings.
On 6 December 2018, Energy Resources of Australia ERA 68% owned by Rio Tinto and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange announced a likely increase to its closure provision of A$296million pending finalisation of the Ranger Project Area closure feasibility study.
The final assessment has indicated an increase equivalent to US$242 million.
As the assets of ERA havebeen fully impaired, this increase has not been capitalised and has instead been recognised in the income statement.
There is no tax impact in respect of this item.
In 2016, the closure provision for non-operating and legacy operations increased mainly due to the Gove alumina refinery in Northern Territory, Australia where operations have been curtailed since May 2014.
The provision was updated based on the cost estimates from the studies.
Future revisions to the closure cost estimate during the study periods including the next stage of feasibility study will continue to be excluded from underlying earnings as the site operating assets have been fully impaired.
f I n November 2018, Rio Tinto completed the lease and sale of a wharf and land in Kitimat.
This resulted in a pre-tax gain of US$549 million on disposal of Property, plant and equipment and Other income of US$53 million total impact of US$569 million after tax.
This has been excluded from underlying earnings on the grounds of materiality.
g In 2017, deferred tax assets were remeasured to reflect lower corporate income tax rates in the US and France as a result of tax legislation changes substantively enacted in December 2017. h I n 2016, a review of the infrastructure capacity requirements in Queensland, Australia, confirmed that it was no longer likely that Rio Tinto would utilise the Abbot Point Coal Terminal and associated rail infrastructure capacity contracted under take or pay arrangements, and agreement was reached with Adani, the owner of the port, to relinquish that capacity.
Accordingly, anonerous contract provision was recognised based on the net present value of expected future cash flows for the port and rail capacity discounted at a post-tax real rate of 2%, resulting inapost-tax onerous contract charge of US$329 million.
i I n 2017, Rio Tinto received the final settlement on the insurance claims related to the 2013 slide at Rio Tinto Kennecotts Bingham Canyon mine.
The amounts excluded from underlying earnings were consistent with the previous excluded losses to which they related, in line with the treatment of the 2013 and 2015 settlement payments.
j T ax provision includes amounts provided for specific tax matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
During 2016, provision was made in relation tomatters under discussion with the Australian Taxation Office ATO in relation to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between Rio Tinto entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in Singapore for the period since 2009. k I n 2017, deferred tax assets were derecognised as a result of revised profit forecasts in France due to the expected divestments of Dunkerque and ISAL.
l O ther credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
In 2016, other exclusions included costs related to multiple transformation projects and the recuperation of capital losses against capital gains on divestment.
m Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units are stated after tax and are included in the column Pre-tax.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through tradersisnot known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when control is transferred.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the UK and Australia.
Consolidated sales revenue by product Consolidated sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: Revenue from contracts with Other Consolidated Consolidated Consolidated a customers revenue sales revenue sales revenue sales revenue 2018 2018 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Iron ore 19,888 21 19,867 20,010 15,855 Aluminium 12,041 22 12,019 10,864 9,342 Copper 2,420 32 2,388 1,760 1,609 Coal 986 3 989 2,822 2,567 Industrial minerals 2,093 2,093 2,060 1,954 Gold 869 869 378 608 Diamonds 695 695 706 613 Other 1,602 1,602 1,430 1,233 Consolidated sales revenue 40,594 72 40,522 40,030 33,781 Share of equity accounted unit sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted unit sales 2,313 1,837 1,555 Gross sales revenue 42,835 41,867 35,336 a C ertain of the Groups products may be provisionally priced at the date revenue is recognised.
The change in value of the provisionally priced receivables is based on relevant forward market prices and is included in Other revenue above.
In prior periods there was no equivalent requirement under IAS 18 to separate out such provisional price movements and therefore this was notseparately disclosed.
com 169 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 3 Operating segments additional information continued a Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holdingthe assets.
b Adjusted 2017 US$m Australia 28,592 32,890 Canada 13,775 14,822 Mongolia 9,912 8,582 United States of America 4,815 4,812 Africa 3,476 3,781 South America 3,047 3,304 Indonesia 1,458 Europe excluding France and the UK 50 362 UK 59 66 France 79 94 Other countries 850 892 Total non-current assets other than excluded items 64,655 71,063 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,137 3,395 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 814 510 c Quasi equity loans to equity accounted units 129 159 Tax recoverable 8 30 Trade and other receivables 1,304 1,397 Total non-current assets per balance sheet 70,047 76,554 a A llocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
It includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$4,170 million 2017:US$4,327 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
b T he 2017 comparatives above have been amended to correct the allocation of non-current assets other than excluded items by location.
The impact is an increase in the amounts allocated toCanada and a decrease to the amounts allocated to France of US$182 million.
There is no impact on the total non-current assets.
c L oans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$129 million 2017: US$159 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the balance sheet andnon-current non-quasi equity loans of US$38 million 2017: US$39 million shown within Other financial assets.
4 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 10,613 9,286 8,760 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 133 177 227 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 3,882 4,198 4,567 Employment costs 5 4,728 4,765 4,881 a Shipping and other freight costs 2,580 2,338 1,454 Increase decrease in finished goods and work in progress 186 82 87 Royalties 2,117 2,228 1,889 b Amounts charged by equity accounted units 1,200 980 1,184 Net foreign exchange gains losses 56 61 38 a c Other external costs 3,184 3,967 3,512 d Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 506 32 40 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 1,011 527 1,404 Research and development 45 58 60 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 589 486 521 Other operating income 1,041 1,002 703 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 27,115 26,983 26,799 a N et operating costs includes operating lease expense of US$787 million 2017: US$555 million, 2016: US$541 million.
Costs for leases of dry bulk vessels which include costs for crewing services are included within Shipping and other freight costs and other lease costs are included within Other external costs.
The Group will implement IFRS 16 Leases as at 1 January 2019: refer to note 1. b Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the equity accounted unit but in 2018, US$332 million 2017: US$229 million: 2016: US$383 million related to purchases of the other investors share of production.
c I n 2017, other external costs include a financial penalty of 27.4 million US$36.4 million paid to the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation to the timing of the impairment of the Groups former coal operations in Mozambique.
Refer to note 31 for further detail.
d Includes a pre-tax gain of US$549 million from the sale of property, plant and equipment at Kitimat.
com Financial statements 5 Employment costs 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m Total employment costs Wages and salaries 4,154 4,129 4,235 Social security costs 336 337 429 Net post-retirement charge 44 532 500 522 Share-based payment charge 43 122 91 116 5,144 5,057 5,302 a Less: charged within provisions 26 416 292 421 Total employment costs 4 4,728 4,765 4,881 a A mounts included above in respect of provisions for pensions, post-retirement healthcare, long service leave and other employee entitlements which are included in Provisions including exchange differences on provisions in note 4.
6 Impairment charges Non-controlling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Aluminium ISAL Smelter 123 25 98 Energy & Minerals Rssing 9 3 6 267 Energy & Minerals Roughrider 357 Copper & Diamonds Argyle 172 241 Other 8 Total impairment charge 132 25 3 104 796 249 Allocated as: Goodwill 12 Intangible assets 13 2 357 1 Property, plant and equipment 14 130 435 248 Other assets and liabilities 4 Total impairment charge 132 796 249 Comprising: Total impairment charges in the financial information by business unit page 249 132 796 249 Taxation including related to EAUs 25 141 66 Non-controlling interests 3 174 Total impairment in the income statement 104 481 183 Aluminium ISAL Smelter In 2018, we reached agreement to sell the ISAL Smelter in Iceland, our 53.3% interest in the Aluchemie anode plant in the Netherlands and our 50% share in the Aluminium fluoride plant in Sweden.
The anticipated headline sales price of US$345 million was lower than the carrying value of these assets leading us to recognise an impairment charge of US$123 million.
This was based on a fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD model, against property, plant and equipment and acquired software.
Subsequently, Hydro withdrew its offer.
We continue to actively market this CGU and have notidentified any indications of further impairment or impairment reversals.
Energy & Minerals Rssing, Namibia In 2017, our annual impairment trigger assessment at the Rssing Uranium CGU identified a drop in forecast prices for uranium due to oversupply in the market.
When we assessed the recoverable amount of the assets, we determined that the property, plant and equipment and certain other non-current assets should be fully impaired, resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$267 million.
In 2018, we agreed to sell our share of Rssing Uranium to China National Uranium Corporation Limited.
Subject to the completion of certain conditions precedent, the transaction is expected to complete in the first half of 2019.
After taking account of the cash held by Rssing that will go to the buyer as part of the transaction, it is our expectation that the transaction will result in a cash outflow refer to note 19.
We have recognised a pre-tax impairment charge of US$9 million on transfer to assets held for sale to write off the property, plant and equipment purchased during the year.
com 171 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges continued Copper & Diamonds Argyle Diamond Mine, Australia In 2016, our annual impairment trigger assessment at the Argyle CGU identified the impact of lower production volumes compared with forecast andlowerprices achieved for bulk diamonds as impairment indicators.
We calculated a recoverable amount for Argyle of US$191 million, resulting inapre-taximpairment charge of US$241 million to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
In 2017, our annual impairment trigger assessment at the Argyle CGU identified impairment indicators because of lower production volumes compared with forecast, a smaller than expected contribution from productivity improvements and lower realised prices.
In assessing the recoverable amount of the assets, we determined that the property, plant and equipment, including an updated closure asset, was fully impaired resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$172 million.
The impairment charge resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets of US$34 million, which will berecovered by other business units in the same tax group.
Energy & Minerals Roughrider, Canada In 2017, after reassessing our planned exploration spend, we decided not to plan or budget for evaluating the Roughrider deposit.
We identified this as animpairment indicator under IFRS 6 and, due to uncertainty around whether there are viable quantities of uranium there, set a recoverable amount ofUS$nil for the evaluation and exploration assets.
In light of this, we recorded an impairment charge of US$357 million to write off the mineral interests recognised when we acquired Roughrider.
Copper & Diamonds Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia As noted in the Strategic report for Copper & Diamonds, the Group has observed a deterioration in some internal and external indicators of value for the Oyu Tolgoi CGU and has therefore prepared an assessment of recoverable amount.
The net present value of post-tax cash flows, based on the IAS 36 fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD methodology, for the Oyu Tolgoi CGU, discounted at 8% in real-terms, exceeds the carrying value by US$3.1 billion.
As such, no impairment charge has been recognised.
The recoverable amount incorporates a reduction in value of approximately US$1.1 billion, compared with the 2017 forecast, as a result of those changes to the project schedule, cost and scope, including the location of the power station, where the extent of those changes, and their value impacts, can be reasonably assessed at this time.
This reduction was offset by value accretion of US$1.3 billion due to the annual unwind of the discount for the timing of expected cash inflows and inflation.
The individual assumptions subject to the most estimation uncertainty for the FVLCD calculation are the copper price and the discount rate.
To illustrate these sensitivities, the valuation headroom would be eliminated by an increase to the discount rate of 1.9%, or a reduction of US$0.39 per pound to the forecast copper price throughout the life of mine, if all other inputs remained constant.
In the long term, this price sensitivity is the equivalent to a 13% reduction in copper prices.
These cash flows have been calculated in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
As set out in the Strategic report, in October 2018 we announced our annual reforecast of the development schedule which at that time suggested a nine-month delay in the schedule to sustainable production, primarily caused by delays in completing and equipping the primary production shaft and bysome zones of variable rock strength that had been encountered.
In December 2018, we announced the signing of the Power Source Framework Agreement, which sets out an amended timetable for Oyu Tolgoi to meet its obligation to source power domestically.
These updates, together with an estimate of the financial impact of a potential further delay in the commissioning of the primary production shaft, have been reflected in the recoverable amount of the CGU as set out above.
Since then, our mine design teams have continued to work with the more comprehensive geotechnical data that has become available as the  continues, and it is clear that potentially significant changes to the design of some future elements of the development, andtothe development schedule, will be needed, to allow for zones of particularly variable rock strength which have been encountered in the footprint ofthe mine.
The detailed design work is under way, as is the work necessary to estimate the impact on cost and schedule that these changes may have.
Giventhe very early status of this work, no adjustments have at this time been made to the recoverable amount.
The Group will continue to review theCGU for further indicators of impairment as this work progresses.
Recognising the uncertainties noted above, as well as the time remaining through to ramp-up of commercial production, the Group highlights that itdoesnot consider the current headroom to be indicative of an impairment reversal at this time.
com Financial statements 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 2,497 1,960 1,727 Operating costs 1,656 1,400 1,237 Profit before finance items and taxation 841 560 490 Finance items 69 47 33 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 14 17 20 Profit before taxation 786 530 477 Taxation 273 191 156 Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 513 339 321 a Sales revenue of equity accounted units includes sales by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Further information relating to the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
8 Finance income and finance costs 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units Rio Tinto share 7 4 6 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 242 137 83 Total finance income 249 141 89 Interest on: Financial liabilities at amortised cost and associated derivatives 775 819 895 Finance leases 2 3 3 Fair value movements: Bonds designated as hedged items in fair value hedges 96 28 89 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in fair value hedges 73 22 89 a Loss on early redemption of bonds 94 256 324 Amounts capitalised 14 296 224 111 Total finance costs 552 848 1,111 a I n 2018, loss on early redemption of bonds includes a premium charge of US$72 million: unamortised debt issuance costs and fees of US$9 million, the write-off of the fair value hedge adjustment of US$16 million and the reclassification of a gain out of the cost of hedging reserve of US$3 million see note 30.
In 2017, loss on early redemption of bonds included a premium charge of US$238 million: unamortised debt issuance costs and fees of US$14 million and the write-off of the fair value hedgeadjustment of US$4 million see note 30.
In 2016, loss of early redemption of bonds included a premium charge of US$441 million: unamortised debt issuance costs and fees of US$42 million partially offset by the write-off of fair valuehedge adjustments of US$159 million see note 30.
com 173 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 9 Taxation Taxation charge 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m Current 3,726 3,270 2,115 Deferred 17 516 695 548 Total taxation charge 4,242 3,965 1,567 Prima facie tax reconciliation 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m Profit before taxation 18,167 12,816 6,343 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 513 339 321 Parent companies and subsidiaries profit before tax 17,654 12,477 6,022 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 19% 2017: 19%: 2016: 20% 3,354 2,371 1,204 Higher rate of taxation on Australian underlying earnings 1,106 1,069 604 a Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings : Impairment charges 10 16 Net gains and losses on consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses 251 123 30 Exchange and gains losses on derivatives 32 48 33 Losses from increases to closure estimates non-operating and fully impaired sites 30 40 Gain relating to surplus land at Kitimat 81 b Changes in corporate tax rates in the US and France 439 Onerous port and rail contracts 46 c Tax provision 380 d Tax charge relating to expected divestments 202 Other exclusions 14 48 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 47 21 9 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia on underlying earnings 47 92 283 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 46 33 15 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 40 154 e Write-down of previously recognised deferred tax assets 13 160 f Other items 85 15 7 g Total taxation charge 4,242 3,965 1,567 a The impact for each item includes the effect of tax rates applicable outside the UK.
b In 2017, deferred tax assets were remeasured to reflect lower corporate income tax rates in the US and France as a result of tax legislation changes substantively enacted in December 2017. c T ax provision includes amounts provided for specific tax matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
During 2016, provision was made in relation tomatters under discussion with the Australian Taxation Office ATO in relation to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between Rio Tinto entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in Singapore for the period since 2009. d I n 2017, deferred tax assets were derecognised as a result of revised profit forecasts in France due to expected divestments of Dunkerque and ISAL.
e The write-down of previously recognised deferred tax assets in 2017 primarily relates to a reduction in recognised deferred tax assets on brought forward losses in Grasberg.
f Other items include various adjustments to provisions for taxation of prior periods.
g T his tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations.
The Groups share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$273 million 2017: US$191 million: 2016: US$156 million.
2018 2017 2016 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax on fair value movements: Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 54 1 4 Tax charge credit on actuarial gains and losses on post-retirement benefit plans 271 12 29 Adjustments to deferred tax on post-retirement benefit plans due to changes in corporate tax rates in the US and France 140 a Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income loss for the year 325 153 33 a T his comprises a deferred tax charge of US$325 million 2017: charge of US$153 million: 2016: credit of US$33 million and a current tax charge of US$nil 2017: US$nil: 2016: US$nil, plusashare of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately see note 17.
com Financial statements 10 Earnings per ordinary share 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average 2018 average 2017 2018 number of Per share 2017 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders a of Rio Tinto 13,638 1,719.3 793.2 8,762 1,786.7 490.4 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders b of Rio Tinto 13,638 1,731.7 787.6 8,762 1,799.5 486.9 2016 Weighted average 2016 2016 number of Per share Earnings shares amount US$m millions cents a Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 4,617 1,797.3 256.9 b Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto 4,617 1,808.6 255.3 a T he weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,312.7 million 2017: 1,364.5 million: 2016:1,373.7 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 406.6 million 2017: 422.3 million: 2016: 423.6 million over the relevant period.
No Rio Tinto Limitedordinary shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b F or the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 12.4 million shares in 2018 2017: 12.8 million: 2016: 11.3 million is added to the weighted averagenumber of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The Groups only potential dilutiveordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 43.
11 Dividends 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 2,446 1,725 1,443 Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,666 1,530 604 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 731 523 473 Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 513 472 205 Dividends paid during the year 5,356 4,250 2,725 Dividends per share: paid during the year 307.0c 235.0c 152.5c Final dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 180.0c 180.0c 125.0c Special dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 243.0c Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2018 2017 2016 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 129.43p 100.56p 74.21p Rio Tinto plc interim pence 96.82p 83.13p 33.80p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 228.53c 163.62c 151.89c Rio Tinto Limited interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 170.84c 137.72c 59.13c Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares 2018 2017 2016 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year final 1,334.8 1,374.6 1,373.9 Rio Tinto plc interim 1,308.4 1,366.1 1,374.4 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 412.4 424.0 423.5 Rio Tinto Limited interim 412.4 424.0 424.0 The dividends paid in 2018 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2017 final 180.0 cents, 2018 interim 127.0 cents 2017 dividendspaid: 2016 final 125.0 cents, 2017 interim 110.0 cents: 2016 dividends paid: 2015 final 107.5 cents, 2016 interim 45.0 cents.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee share trusts which waived the right to dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 132,294 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 22,824 American Depository Receipts ADRs for the 2017 final dividend and on 314,529 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 36,321 ADRs for the 2018 interim dividend 2017: 277,946 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 22,021 ADRs for the 2016 final dividend and on 173,297 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 24,377 ADRs for the 2017 interim dividend: 2016: 428,529 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 13,881 ADRs for the 2015 final dividend and on 217,661 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 31,604 ADRs for the 2016 interim dividend.
In 2018, 2017 and 2016, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
com 175 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 11 Dividends continued The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 130,129 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares for the 2017 final dividend and on 251,394 shares for the 2018 interim dividend 2017: 214,278 shares for the 2016 final dividend and on 274,899 shares for the 2017 interim dividend: 2016: 681,818 shares for the 2015final dividend and on 152,834 shares for the 2016 interim dividend.
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 180.0 cents per share and a special dividend of 243.0 cents per share on 27 February 2019.
These are expected to result in payments ofapproximately US$7 billion.
The dividends will be paid on 18 April 2019 to Rio Tinto plc and RioTinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 March 2019.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income taxduring 2019.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and frankedout of available credits that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2018 after deducting franking creditsexpected to be utilised on the 2018 final dividend declared is US$6,178 million 2017: US$8,542 million: 2016: US$11,577 million.
12 Goodwill 2018 2017 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 1,037 951 Adjustment on currency translation 125 86 At 31 December 912 1,037 cost 15,861 17,942 accumulated impairment 14,949 16,905 At 1 January cost 17,942 17,144 accumulated impairment 16,905 16,193 At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2018 2017 US$m US$m Net book value Richards Bay Minerals 474 552 Pilbara 351 389 Dampier Salt 87 96 912 1,037 Impairment tests for goodwill Richards Bay Minerals Richards Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2018 2017: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount hasbeen assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determined by estimating cash flows until the end of the life-of-mine plan including anticipated expansions.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rateof 8.8% 2017: 8.7% has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set outbelow: US$m 5% decrease in the titanium slag price 174 1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 195 10% strengthening of the South African rand 328 Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated inline with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the CGU exceeds the carrying value when each of these sensitivities are applied whilst keeping all other assumptions constant.
Pilbara The annual impairment review of the Pilbara CGU has been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is inlinewith the policy set out in note 1 i and is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 6.8% 2017: 6.7% has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The recoverable amount was determined to be significantly in excessofcarrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired.
com Financial statements 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Exploration patented and Contract-based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2018 393 75 2,188 463 3,119 Adjustment on currency translation 25 3 171 46 245 Expenditure during the year 90 1 83 174 c Amortisation for the year 14 23 96 133 d Impairment charges 2 2 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 225 12 103 134 At 31 December 2018 233 59 1,982 505 2,779 cost 2,346 217 3,114 1,538 7,215 accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,113 158 1,132 1,033 4,436 Trademarks, Exploration patented and Contract-based Other and non-patented intangible intangible a b evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2017 711 78 2,103 387 3,279 Adjustment on currency translation 27 10 150 29 216 Expenditure during the year 57 65 122 c Amortisation for the year 13 67 97 177 d Impairment charges 357 357 e Disposals, transfers and other movements 45 2 79 36 At 31 December 2017 393 75 2,188 463 3,119 cost 2,658 224 3,438 1,537 7,857 accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,265 149 1,250 1,074 4,738 a Exploration and evaluation assets useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment.
b T he Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan, including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute tothe efficiency and cost-effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in Contract-based intangible assets.
The remaining carrying value of the water rights US$1,684 million as at 31 December 2018 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters CGU.
The Quebec smelters CGU was tested for impairment by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a real post-tax discount rate of 6.8% 2017: 6.7%.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining water rights to be impaired.
c F inite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademarks, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: ten to 20 years Contract-based intangible assets Power contracts water rights: two to 45 years Other purchase and customer contracts: five to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: two to five years Other intangible assets: two to 20 years d Impairment charges in 2018 relate to the ISAL Smelter see note 6.
Impairment charges in 2017 relate to the full write-off of the Roughrider deposit in Canada see note 6. e D isposals, transfers and other movements includes transfers to assets held for sale relating to Rssing Uranium and ISAL assets, transfers to Mining properties and leases in relation to theKoodaideri mine from Exploration and evaluation, offset by transfers into other intangibles as part of the Autohaul project.
Disposals, transfers and other movements for Exploration andevaluation in 2017 included US$34 million transferred to Mining Property in relation to the Kemano tunnel following approval of the project.
com 177 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m Net expenditure in the year net of cash proceeds of US$233 million 2017: US$3 million: 2016: US$208 million on disposal of undeveloped projects 345 493 284 Non-cash movements and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 45 24 177 Amount capitalised during the year 90 57 8 Net charge for the year 210 460 453 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 488 445 497 a Profit loss relating to interests in undeveloped projects 278 15 44 Net charge for the year 210 460 453 a D uring 2018, profit relating to interests in undeveloped properties relates to the gains on the sales of Valeria US$83 million and Winchester South US$195 million undeveloped properties which are included within underlying earnings.
At 31 December 2018, a total of US$233 million had been capitalised related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed 31 December 2017:a total of US$420 million had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$393 million included above and US$27 million of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment.
14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2018 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2018 11,488 7,376 36,285 6,944 62,093 c Adjustment on currency translation 689 548 2,671 249 4,157 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs 26 486 486 d Interest capitalised 8 296 296 Additions 403 80 459 4,359 5,301 a e Depreciation for the year 664 382 2,836 3,882 f Impairment charges 3 20 101 6 130 Disposals 1 54 71 4 130 g Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 1,103 377 1,392 514 3,386 h Transfers and other movements 1,146 188 2,346 3,810 130 At 31 December 2018 11,063 6,263 32,019 7,016 56,361 cost 23,318 10,601 63,051 7,324 104,294 accumulated depreciation and impairment 12,255 4,338 31,032 308 47,933 i Non-current assets held under finance leases 31 31 j Non-current assets pledged as security 3,054 385 5,194 4,588 13,221 178 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2017 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2017 10,848 7,316 35,706 4,985 58,855 c Adjustment on currency translation 495 461 2,242 183 3,381 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs 26 710 710 d Interest capitalised 8 224 224 Additions 230 41 646 3,834 4,751 a e Depreciation for the year 673 403 3,122 4,198 f Impairment charges 304 2 128 1 435 Disposals 57 40 26 123 g Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 211 95 417 26 749 h Transfers and other movements 393 115 1,398 2,229 323 At 31 December 2017 11,488 7,376 36,285 6,944 62,093 cost 24,691 12,029 71,903 7,266 115,889 accumulated depreciation and impairment 13,203 4,653 35,618 322 53,796 i Non-current assets held under finance leases 37 37 j Non-current assets pledged as security 3,307 410 5,308 3,278 12,303 a A t 31 December 2018, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$2,050 million, with US$1,572 million within Property, plant and equipment and a further US$478 million within Investments in equity accounted units 2017: total of US$1,815 million with US$1,374 million in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$441 million within Investments in equity accounted units.
During the year capitalisation of US$526 million was partly offset by depreciation of US$274 million including amounts recorded within equity accounted units.
Depreciation of deferred stripping costs in respect of subsidiaries of US$134 million 2017: US$194 million: 2016: US$203 million is included within Depreciation for theyear.
b At 31 December 2018, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,240 million 2017: US$7,294 million and long leasehold US$23 million 2017: US$82 million.
c A djustment on currency translation represents the impact of exchange differences arising on the translation of the assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar, recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
The adjustment in 2018 arose from the strengthening of the US dollar against other currencies.
d I nterest is capitalised at a rate based on the Group or relevant subsidiarys cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is 4.90% 2017: 4.45%.
e A ssets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on astraight line basis as follows: Land and buildings Land: not depreciated Buildings: five to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: three to 50 years Power assets: 25 to 50 years Capital work in progress: not depreciated f During 2018, impairment charges primarily related to the ISAL Smelter see note 6.
During 2017, impairment charges primarily related to Argyle Diamonds and Rssing Uranium see note 6. g D uring 2018, Subsidiaries no longer consolidated relates primarily to the disposal of Kestrel and Hail Creek, which completed on 1 August 2018 and the disposal of Grasberg on 21 December 2018.
During 2017, Subsidiaries no longer consolidated relates primarily to the disposal of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, which completed on 1 September 2017. h Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories and transfers to assets held for sale relating to Rssing Uranium and ISAL assets in 2018, and Dunkerque in2017.
i T he finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. j E xcludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$4,562 million 2017: US$4,677 million of loans, whichare included in note 22.
com 179 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 15 Investments in equity accounted units Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share 2018 2017 US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Non-current assets 6,000 5,913 Current assets 887 990 6,887 6,903 Rio Tintos share of liabilities Current liabilities 607 654 Non-current liabilities 1,981 1,763 2,588 2,417 Rio Tintos share of net assets 4,299 4,486 Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
At 31 December 2018, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$1,158 million 2017: US$1,244 million.
16 Inventories 2018 2017 US$m US$m Raw materials and purchased components 734 648 Consumable stores 862 875 Work in progress 1,026 1,082 Finished goods and goods for resale 977 1,027 Total inventories 3,599 3,632 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 3,447 3,472 Expected to be used after more than one year 152 160 Total inventories 3,599 3,632 During 2018, the Group recognised inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$48 million.
During 2017, the Group recognised a net inventory write-back of US$7 million.
This comprised a US$81 million write-back of amounts previously written down due to an increase in realisable values, partly offset by inventory write-offs of US$74 million.
At 31 December 2018, US$566 million 2017: US$611 million of inventories were pledged as security for liabilities.
17 Deferred taxation 2018 2017 US$m US$m At 1 January deferred tax liability asset 233 607 Adjustment to opening balance on transition to IFRS 15 71 At 1 January restated opening balance 162 607 Adjustment on currency translation 172 53 Charged to the income statement 516 695 a Charged to statement of comprehensive income 325 153 Disposals 263 b Other movements 32 61 At 31 December deferred tax liability 536 233 Comprising: c d deferred tax liabilities 3,673 3,628 c e f deferred tax assets 3,137 3,395 180 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as permitted byIAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Analysis of deferred tax Total Total 2018 2017 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Capital allowances 4,408 5,208 d Unremitted earnings 454 588 Capitalised interest 259 391 Unrealised exchange gains 5 31 Other temporary differences 309 222 Total 5,435 6,440 Deferred tax assets arising from: e Tax losses 1,894 2,282 Provisions 1,585 1,731 Capital allowances 154 579 Post-retirement benefits 293 616 Unrealised exchange losses 187 317 Other temporary differences 786 682 Total 4,899 6,207 Charged credited to the income statement Unrealised exchange losses 57 36 Tax losses 30 12 Provisions 19 451 Capital allowances 461 278 Tax on unremitted earnings 33 4 Post-retirement benefits 30 149 Other temporary differences 50 235 Total 516 695 a T he amounts charged directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and on post-retirement healthcare plans.
b Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
c T he deferred tax liability of US$3,673 million 2017: US$3,628 million includes US$3,658 million 2017: US$3,615 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,137 million 2017: US$3,395 million includes US$3,133 million 2017: US$3,386 million receivable in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12. d D eferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures totalling US$3,726 million 2017: US$3,242 million where the Group is able to control the timing ofthe remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$157 million 2017: US$131 million would be payable.
e T here is a limited time period, the shortest of which is six years, for the recovery of US$1,519 million 2017: US$1,679 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised asdeferred tax assets in the financial statements.
f R ecognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$5,647 million at 31 December 2018 2017: US$7,071 million.
Of this total, US$3,137 million hasbeen recognised as deferred tax assets 2017: US$3,395 million, leaving US$2,510 million 2017: US$3,676 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
Recognised Unrecognised 2018 2017 2018 2017 At 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m France 1,122 1,163 Canada 545 546 559 674 US 932 877 12 7 Australia 796 1,055 289 257 a Mongolia 703 631 87 61 b Other 161 286 441 1,514 Total 3,137 3,395 2,510 3,676 a D eferred tax assets in Mongolia include US$469 million 2017: US$432 million from tax losses that expire if not recovered against taxable profits within eight years.
Tax losses have been calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Oyu Tolgoi Investment Agreement and Mongolian laws.
Recovery of the recognised deferred tax assets is expected to commence from 2024based on projected cash flows in the latest life-of-mine plan, which has been calculated on a consistent basis with the impairment test described in note 6.
Tax law in Mongolia and itsinterpretation by the tax authority has been, and is expected to continue to be, subject to change.
Such future changes could have a material impact on the amount and period of recoveryofthese deferred tax assets.
b U S$684 million 2017: US$777 million of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, the recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$96 million of the unrecognised assets 2017: US$250 million.
com 181 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 18 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Trade receivables 2,167 2,167 1 2,314 2,315 a Other financial receivables 240 550 790 178 462 640 Amounts due from equity accounted units 50 50 30 30 Other receivables 129 226 355 348 358 706 b Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 228 228 269 269 Pension surpluses note 44 935 935 871 871 Other prepayments 53 186 239 57 279 336 Total 1,585 3,179 4,764 1,724 3,443 5,167 a A t 31 December 2018, trade and other financial receivables are stated net of allowances for expected credit losses of US$8 million.
The 2017 closing provision for doubtful debt under IAS 39 ofUS$55 million was adjusted by US$7 million pre-tax upon adoption of IFRS 9 refer to note 45.
During the year there has been an increase to the provision for expected credit losses of US$2million and US$42 million has been utilised.
b These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest-bearing or financing in nature.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current trade and other receivables approximates totheir carrying value.
There are no material trade receivables that are past due but not impaired.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale At 31 December 2018, assets and liabilities held for sale include Rio Tintos interest in the Rssing Uranium mine US$106 million and the ISAL Smelter, the Aluchemie anode plant and the Alufluor aluminium fluoride plant US$334 million.
At 31 December 2017, assets and liabilities held for sale included Rio Tintos interest in the Dunkerque aluminium smelter US$355 million and certain other separate assets.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of those entities classified as held for sale at 31 December 2018 are: 2018 2017 US$m US$m Assets Intangible assets 4 6 Property, plant and equipment 238 190 Investments in equity accounted units 5 Inventories 186 88 Deferred tax assets 66 49 Trade and other receivables 58 139 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 60 22 Cash and cash equivalents 117 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 734 494 Liabilities Trade and other payables 134 60 Provisions including post-retirement benefits 160 64 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 294 124 Net assets associated with disposal groups 440 370 On completion of the sale of Rssing Uranium, it is expected that a loss of approximately US$300 million will be recognised, including the loss that will be recycled from the currency translation reserve on sale of the business.
The loss is subject to currency movements up until completion of the sale, which is expected to be in the first half of 2019.
com Financial statements 20 Other financial assets including non-quasi equity loans to equity accounted units Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 468 88 556 238 29 267 Equity shares and quoted funds 53 77 130 45 91 136 a Other investments, including loans 255 2,527 2,782 188 964 1,152 Loans to equity accounted units 38 38 39 39 Total 814 2,692 3,506 510 1,084 1,594 a Current Other investments, including loans comprise US$2,522 million 2017: US$958 million of highly liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 740 1,035 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 10,033 9,515 Balance per Group balance sheet 10,773 10,550 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 1 3 Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 19 117 Balance per Group cash flow statement 10,889 10,547 Cash and cash equivalents of US$186 million 2017: US$290 million are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this balance, US$142 million 2017: US$158 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$1,090 million 2017: US$1,089 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned subsidiaries and is not available for use in the wider Group due to legal and contractual restrictions currently in place.
Of this balance US$864 million 2017: US$703 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third-party borrowings.
com 183 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Borrowings at 31 December Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020 468 468 921 921 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 428 428 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021 347 347 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 3.5% 2022 227 227 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.875% 2022 377 377 a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024 514 514 644 644 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.75% 2025 1,170 1,170 1,192 1,192 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 927 927 965 965 Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 104 104 105 105 a b Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029 633 633 669 669 Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 421 421 422 422 Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 288 288 287 287 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.2% 2040 1,095 1,095 1,102 1,102 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 4.75% 2042 462 462 467 467 a Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 4.125% 2042 685 685 691 691 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC MIGA Insured Loan LIBOR plus 2.65% due 2027 676 676 674 674 Oyu Tolgoi LLC Commercial Banks B Loan LIBOR plus3.4% c due2027 1,588 1,588 1,588 1,588 c Oyu Tolgoi LLC Export Credit Agencies Loan 2.3% due2028 272 272 255 255 Oyu Tolgoi LLC Export Credit Agencies Loan LIBOR plus 3.65% c due 2029 871 871 869 869 Oyu Tolgoi LLC International Financial Institutions ALoan c LIBOR plus 3.78% due 2030 768 768 761 761 Loans from equity accounted units 31 31 Other secured loans 345 42 387 451 79 530 Other unsecured loans 373 264 637 393 435 828 Finance leases 23 39 5 44 49 4 53 Bank overdrafts 21 1 1 3 3 d Total borrowings including overdrafts 12,440 312 12,752 14,624 552 15,176 a T hese borrowings are subject to the hedging arrangements summarised below.
Fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for the Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029which has cash flow hedge accounting applied.
b R io Tinto has a US$10 billion 2017: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$1.6 billion equivalent at 31 December 2018 2017:US$2.2 billion.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$1.6 billion 2017: US$ 2.2 billion in aggregate.
c T hese borrowings relate to the Oyu Tolgoi LLC project finance facility.
The project finance facility provides for interest-only payments for the first five years followed by minimum repayments according to a stepped amortisation schedule for the remaining life of the facility.
The due dates stated represent the final repayment date.
The interest rates stated are pre-completion and willincrease by 1% post-completion.
d T he Groups borrowings of US$12.8 billion 2017: US$15.2 billion include US$2.4 billion 2017: US$2.7 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, and US$4.6 billion 2017: US$4.7 billion which is subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2018.
Other financial liabilities Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 407 95 502 481 50 531 Other financial liabilities 666 666 43 302 345 Total other financial liabilities 407 761 1,168 524 352 876 Total borrowings including overdrafts as above 12,440 312 12,752 14,624 552 15,176 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 12,847 1,073 13,920 15,148 904 16,052 Swap arrangements At 31 December 2018, US$4.3 billion 2017: US$5.7 billion US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollarrates and US$0.9 billion 2017: US$1.5 billion US dollar notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates.
Hedge accounting has been applied to the full notional of items marked a in the above table except for: US$75 million 2017: US$75 million oftheRioTinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028.
This portion is held at amortised cost.
The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.6 billion 2017: US$0.7 billion US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully swappedto US dollar notional and fixed US dollar rates.
Cash flow hedging was applied to the annual interest coupons and principal of this bond.
Thehedge was fully effective in 2018 and 2017 financial years as the notional amount, maturity, payment and reset dates match.
com Financial statements The fair value of interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2018 was US$70 million 2017: US$99 million asset and US$358million 2017: US$276 million liability, respectively.
These are included within Other financial assets and Other financial liabilities inthebalance sheet.
The change in fair value used for measuring ineffectiveness for the period is shown in note 8.
The main sources of ineffectiveness include changes in the timing of the cash flows of the hedging instrument compared to the underlying hedgeditemand changes in the credit risk of parties to the hedging relationship.
Details of the major interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
23 Capitalised finance leases 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 45 57 Effect of discounting 1 4 Total 22 44 53 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within 1 year 5 4 Between 1 and 3 years 10 14 Between 3 and 5 years 18 28 More than 5 years 12 11 Total 45 57 24 Consolidated net cash debt b Financing liabilities Other assets Debt-related Borrowings derivatives including included in finance leases Other financial excluding assets Cash Other Net a b c overdrafts liabilities overdrafts investments debt cash Year ended 31 December 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net cash debt Opening balance 15,173 177 10,547 958 3,845 Foreign exchange adjustment 126 64 151 213 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 2,246 51 191 1,557 4,045 Other non-cash movements 50 98 117 7 158 Closing balance 12,751 288 10,772 2,522 255 b Financing liabilities Other assets Debt-related Borrowings derivatives including included in finance leases Other financial excluding assets Cash Other Net a b c overdrafts liabilities overdrafts investments debt Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 17,618 408 8,189 250 9,587 Foreign exchange adjustment 303 245 12 70 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 2,777 7 2,370 705 5,859 Other non-cash movements 29 21 3 47 Closing balance 15,173 177 10,547 958 3,845 a B orrowings including finance leases at 31 December 2018 differ from total borrowings on the balance sheet as they exclude overdrafts of US$1 million 31 December 2017: US$3 million, other current financial liabilities of US$761 million 31 December 2017: US$352 million and other non-current financial liabilities US$407 million 31 December 2017: US$524 million.
b C losing cash overdrafts at 31 December 2018 differ from cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet as they include overdrafts of US$1 million which have been classified as a financialliability 31 December 2017: US$3 million.
Other non-cash movements represents the reclassification of cash and cash equivalents in disposal groups to assets held for sale.
c Other investments comprise US$2,522 million 2017: US$958 million of highly liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
com 185 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 25 Trade and other payables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 3,180 3,180 3,255 3,255 Other financial payables 256 653 909 265 867 1,132 Other payables 165 114 279 87 97 184 a Deferred income 176 234 410 246 246 492 Accruals 11 1,229 1,240 13 1,347 1,360 Employee entitlements 630 630 734 734 Royalties and mining taxes 1 487 488 4 492 496 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 156 67 223 156 19 175 Government grants deferred 76 6 82 85 4 89 Total 841 6,600 7,441 856 7,061 7,917 a Deferred income includes contract liabilities of US$198 million.
The fair value of trade payables and financial instruments within other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions including post-retirement benefits Pensions Close-down and Other and post-retirement employee restoration Total Total a b c healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 3,370 389 9,983 900 14,642 13,794 Adjustment on currency translation 145 37 656 60 898 846 Adjustments to mining properties: 14 changes in estimate 486 486 710 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing and new provisions 267 185 456 229 1,137 797 unused amounts reversed 36 38 70 144 187 exchange losses gains on provisions 13 3 16 83 amortisation of discount 372 9 381 383 Utilised in year 219 122 319 177 837 1,053 Actuarial gains losses recognised in equity 781 781 121 d Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 29 257 32 318 622 e Transfers and other movements 6 10 65 15 76 64 At 31 December 2,486 360 9,975 787 13,608 14,642 Balance sheet analysis: Current 79 274 476 227 1,056 1,275 Non-current 2,407 86 9,499 560 12,552 13,367 Total 2,486 360 9,975 787 13,608 14,642 a T he main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post-retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 44. b T he provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$242 million 2017: US$292 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$46 million 2017: US$24 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c T he Groups policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k on page 159 and in paragraph iv under Critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 162 to 164.
Close-down andrestoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 60 years with an average for all sites, weighted by present closure obligation, of around 17 years 2017: 20 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$9,975 million 2017: US$9,983 million for close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean-up obligations are based on risk-adjusted cash flows.
These estimates have been discounted totheir present value at a real risk-free rate of 2% per annum, based on an estimate of the long-term, risk-free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
If the risk-free rate was decreased by 0.5% thenthe provision would be US$1,139 million higher.
Non-current provisions for close-down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$535 million 2017: US$336 million expected totake place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$683 million 2017: US$839 million expected to take place later than five years after the balance sheet date.
Close-down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2018 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$110 million 2017: US$75 million arising from closure-related receivablesfrom the co-owners of the Diavik Joint Venture and insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
d Subsidiaries no longer consolidated relates primarily to the disposal of Kestrel and Hail Creek, which completed on 1 August 2018 and the disposal of Grasberg on 21 December 2018.
In 2017 it related to the disposal of Coal & Allied Industries Limited, which completed on 1 September 2017.
Refer to note 37. e T ransfers and other movements include transfers to liabilities held for sale relating to Rssing Uranium and ISAL provisions.
It also includes an adjustment to record Diavik Diamond Mines Inc. obligations for close-down and restoration on a 100% basis previously 60% share.
Refer to note 33 footnote e. 186 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 2018 2017 2016 Number Number Number 2018 2017 2016 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 1,351.609 1,384.520 1,384.487 220 224 224 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.035 0.026 0.033 b Shares purchased and cancelled 63.984 32.937 9 4 At 31 December 1,287.660 1,351.609 1,384.520 211 220 224 Shares held by public At 1 January 1,342.058 1,374.822 1,374.046 a Shares reissued from treasury 0.106 0.147 0.743 b Shares purchased and cancelled 63.984 32.937 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.035 0.026 0.033 At 31 December 1,278.215 1,342.058 1,374.822 Shares held in treasury 9.445 9.551 9.698 Shares held by public 1,278.215 1,342.058 1,374.822 Total share capital 1,287.660 1,351.609 1,384.520 Other share classes d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only d DLC Dividend Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only a 35,380 ordinary shares were issued in 2018 under the Global Employee Share Plan GESP.
106,045 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the vesting ofawards and the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans, with exercise prices and market values between 16.53 and 43.79 per share 2017: 26,241 ordinary shares were issued under the GESP and 147,126 ordinary shares were reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 28.63 and 37.78 per share: 2016: 33,210ordinary shares were issued under the GESP and 743,380 ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 16.53 and 32.23 per share.
b T he authority for the company to buy-back its ordinary shares was renewed at the 2018 annual general meeting.
63,984,287 shares were bought back and cancelled in 2018 under the on-market buy-back programme.
32,937,109 shares were bought back and cancelled in 2017 under the on-market buy-back programme.
No shares were bought back in 2016. c T he aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the GESP was US$1.0 million 2017: US$1.0 million: 2016: US$0.9 million.
The difference between the nominal value and the issue price of the shares issued was credited to the share premium account.
The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$6 million 2017: US$2 million: 2016: US$4 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share-based payment plans in 2018, 2017 and 2016. d T he Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC Merger.
The DLC Dividend Sharewas issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of theDLCMerger Sharing Agreement.
During 2018, US$140 million of shares and ADRs 2017: US$38.9 million: 2016: US$40.1 million were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2018, 1,770,651 shares and 72,809 ADRs were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 43.
Subsequent to 31 December 2018, 10,956,767 shares were brought back and cancelled under the on-market buy-back programme.
28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2018 2017 2016 Number Number Number 2018 2017 2016 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 412.41 424.19 424.19 4,140 3,915 3,950 Adjustment on currency translation 382 310 35 a b Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 41.20 11.78 281 85 At 31 December 371.21 412.41 424.19 3,477 4,140 3,915 c Special Voting Share 1 only 1 only 1 only c DLC Dividend Share 1 only 1 only 1 only Total share capital 371.21 412.41 424.19 a I n November 2018, 41,198,134 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchased at A$69.69 per share and cancelled under an off-market share buy-back programme carried out pursuant totheshareholder approval granted at Rio Tinto Limiteds 2018 annual general meeting for off-market and on-market buy-backs of up to 41.2 million Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
b I n November 2017, 11,778,064 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchased at A$63.67 per share and cancelled under an off-market share buy-back programme carried out pursuant totheshareholder approval granted at Rio Tinto Limiteds 2017 annual general meeting for off-market and on-market buy-backs of up to 42.4 million Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
c T he Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC Merger.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2018, US$114 million of shares 2017: US$37.5 million: 2016: US$48.5 million were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf ofRioTinto Limited to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2018, 1,416,728 shares were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto Limited.
com 187 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 29 Other reserves and retained earnings 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 38 34 34 Own shares purchased and cancelled 9 4 At 31 December 47 38 34 Cash flow hedge reserve At 1 January 32 32 Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards note 45 4 Cash flow hedge gains losses 156 62 88 Cash flow hedge losses gains transferred to the income statement 40 62 116 Tax on the above 54 4 Transfers and other movements 25 At 31 December 195 32 32 Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 20 126 139 Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards note 45 20 Gains on available for sale securities 19 13 Losses on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 6 Tax on the above 1 Transfers and other movements 122 At 31 December 20 126 Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve At 1 January Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards note 45 8 Losses on equity investments 11 Transfers to retained earnings 3 At 31 December 6 Cost of hedging reserve At 1 January Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards note 45 26 Cost of hedging deferred to reserves during the year 36 Transfer of cost of hedging to the income statement 3 At 31 December 13 b Other reserves At 1 January 11,714 11,861 11,735 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 108 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 114 64 43 Employee share options: value of services 52 31 58 Deferred tax on share options 2 10 3 Companies no longer consolidated 124 At 31 December 11,650 11,714 11,861 c Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 480 2,585 2,491 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 3,658 2,942 204 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 48 34 11 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 14 78 99 Transfers and other movements 11 At 31 December 3,212 480 2,585 Total other reserves per balance sheet 8,661 12,284 9,216 188 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m d Retained earnings At 1 January 23,761 21,631 19,736 Adjustment for transition to new accounting standards note 45 179 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 13,125 8,423 4,298 Equity accounted units profit after tax for the year 513 339 319 e Actuarial gains losses 894 1 94 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 269 150 30 Total comprehensive income for the year 14,263 8,613 4,553 Share buy-back programme 5,423 2,312 Dividends paid 5,356 4,250 2,725 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 60 43 40 Companies no longer consolidated 130 Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements 140 18 37 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 61 57 64 Transfer from FVOCI reserve 3 Transfers and other movements 25 133 At 31 December 27,025 23,761 21,631 a T he capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the UK Companies Act 2006 previously section 170 of the UK Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
Balances reflect the amount by which the companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
b O ther reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed inJuly 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the UK Companies Act 1985.
Other reserves also include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc isrecorded in retained earnings.
c E xchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
d Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of joint operations.
e There were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units in 2018, 2017 or 2016.
30 Financial instruments and risk management Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments C Fair values A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories IFRS 9 Fair value Fair value through other through Amortised comprehensive profit and Total cost income loss At 31 December 2018 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,773 2,779 7,994 a b Trade and other financial receivables 18 3,007 2,015 992 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 130 53 77 c Other investments, including loans 20 2,782 6 2,776 d Derivatives related to net debt: designated as hedges 20, 24 70 70 d Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 20 432 432 d Embedded derivatives not related to net debt: designated as hedges 20 54 54 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 167 167 Total financial assets 17,415 4,967 53 12,395 Financial liabilities e Trade and other financial payables 25 5,552 5,513 39 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 312 312 Medium-term and long-term borrowings 22 12,440 12,440 d Derivatives related to net debt: designated as hedges 22, 24 358 358 d Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 22 98 98 d Embedded derivatives not related to net debt: designated as hedges 22 46 46 Other financial liabilities 22 666 666 Total financial liabilities 19,472 18,931 541 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 189 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued IAS 39 Held to maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held at financial Total receivables securities fair value liabilities At 31 December 2017 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,550 10,550 a b Trade and other financial receivables 18 2,985 2,895 90 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 136 136 c Other investments, including loans 20 1,152 15 1,125 12 d Derivatives related to net debt: designated as hedges 20, 24 99 99 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not d designated as hedges 20 168 168 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 198 198 Total financial assets 15,288 13,658 136 1,482 12 Financial liabilities e Trade and other financial payables 25 5,922 15 5,907 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 552 552 Medium-term and long-term borrowings 22 14,624 14,624 d Derivatives related to net debt: designated as hedges 22, 24 276 276 d Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 22 255 255 Other financial liabilities 22 345 345 Total financial liabilities 21,974 546 21,428 a Trade and other financial receivables comprise trade receivables, other financial receivables, and amounts due from equity accounted units within note 18. b U nder IFRS 9, provisionally priced receivables are fair valued.
In the prior year, under IAS 39, only the embedded pricing derivatives, which were separated from the host receivables, were fairvalued.
c Other investments, including loans, comprise US$2,522 million 2017: US$958 million of highly liquid financial assets in managed investment funds classified as held for trading.
d These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22. e T rade and other financial payables comprise trade payables, other financial payables, accruals and amounts due to equity accounted units within note 25.
The trade and other payables heldat fair value are valued using level 2 inputs.
A b Financial risk management Objectives and policy Rio Tintos policies on financial risk management are defined such that the Group has a capital structure in place to manage the organisation through the commodity cycle and that the Groups exposures may float with the market.
Any exceptions to this general principle are formally approved.
The Group is exposed to capital, liquidity, commodity price, credit, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Treasury oversees the management of these risks along with the cash management and investment activities of the Group.
It performs its activities in a strong control environment, within board-approved limits.
These are reviewed and approved by the board at least annually.
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint arrangements and associates.
However, derivatives are used as and when required in order to manage the Groups exposure in accordance with its underlying financial risk management principles.
A specialist team who have the appropriate skills and experience, with oversight from the treasurer, carries this out.
Summarised below are the risks and the agreed policies to manage the risks identified above.
i Capital and liquidity risk management The Groups overriding objective when managing capital and liquidity is to safeguard the business as a going concern by maintaining a strong balance sheet whilst maximising returns for shareholders.
The board and senior management regularly review the capital structure and liquidity of the Group taking into account: the Groups strategic priorities, the economic and business conditions, and investment opportunities that have been identified, along with the expected returns to shareholders.
The board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the longer term to be in a range of 40% to 60% of underlying earnings in aggregate throughout the commodity cycle.
Their review considers various financial metrics.
These include analysing net debt, gearing, the overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total capital, future cash flows, EBITDA and interest cover ratios.
Net debt decreased from US$3.8 billion at 31 December 2017 to net cash of US$0.3 billion at 31 December 2018 as operating cash inflows and divestment proceeds were partly offset by capital expenditure and cash returns to shareholders.
At 31 December 2018 net gearing was 1% 2017: 7% and interest cover was 22 times 2017: 14 times.
com Financial statements Total capital for the Group is summarised below: 2018 2017 Total capital Note US$m US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group balance sheet 43,686 44,711 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group balance sheet 6,137 6,404 Net debt 24 255 3,845 Total capital 49,568 54,960 The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper and creditfacilities.
The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2018 under these programmes.
It also has access to a US$1.9 billion facility which was extended in 2018 and now matures in November 2021 with a one-year extension option and aUS$5.6 billion facility including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility which matures in November 2022.
The funds available canbeused for general corporate purposes of the Group.
At 31 December 2018 the facilities were undrawn.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro, Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans respectively plus a margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of drawdown.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group by Standard & Poors and Moodys investor services as at 31 December.
2018 2017 a Long-term rating A A3 AA3 a Short-term rating A-1 P-2 A-1 P-2 Outlook Stable Stable Positive Stable a On 6 February 2019 Moodys upgraded the Groups long-term credit rating to A2 and short-term credit rating to P-1 with a stable outlook.
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross-guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
During 2018, the Group redeemed bonds in aggregate with a notional principal value of US$1.9 billion 2017: US$2.5 billion as part of the liability management programme.
These bonds were issued by Rio Tinto Finance USA plc, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited.
Duetoearly redemption costs this ledto an aggregate cash outflow on those redemptions of US$2.0 billion 2017: US$2.7 billion before fees.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
It will therefore not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
Financial liability analysis Within Between Between Between Between 1 year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After At 31 December 2018 demand years years years years 5 years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other financial payables 5,129 423 5,552 Borrowings before swaps 312 562 166 660 741 10,476 12,917 a Expected future interest payments 651 653 636 630 586 4,082 7,238 Other financial liabilities 666 666 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt net settled 36 36 36 36 4 8 148 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 48 508 39 39 39 1,278 1,951 gross outflows 79 595 58 58 58 1,581 2,429 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 27 13 5 5 5 28 83 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: gross inflows 1,664 1,664 gross outflows 1,733 1,733 Total 6,921 1,774 862 1,350 1,347 14,897 27,151 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 191 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Within Between Between Between Between 1 year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After At 31 December 2017 demand years years years years 5 years Total Outflows inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other financial payables 5,488 434 5,922 Borrowings before swaps 552 148 1,011 916 1,283 11,387 15,297 a Expected future interest payments 679 673 670 638 606 4,553 7,819 Other financial liabilities 302 43 345 b Derivative financial liabilities Derivatives related to net debt net settled 10 10 14 11 7 36 88 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 62 62 958 44 44 1,493 2,663 gross outflows 82 82 1,051 55 55 1,741 3,066 Derivatives not related to net debt net settled 43 36 33 24 21 138 295 Derivatives not related to net debt gross settled: gross inflows 795 795 gross outflows 802 802 Total 7,081 1,344 1,793 1,578 1,914 16,290 30,000 a I nterest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at the end of the applicable financial year.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments aresubject to change in line with market rates.
b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
ii Commodity price risk The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the board andto rigid internal controls.
The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, including some volumes sold in the spot market.
Sales revenue may be subject to adjustment if the product specification does not conform to the terms specified in the sales contract.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller proportion of iron orevolumes being sold on the spot market.
Copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
Theprices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and the Commodities Exchange COMEX in New York.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to themarginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly minedgold is only one source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Certain of the Groups products may be provisionally priced at the date revenue is recognised: however, substantially all iron ore and aluminium sales arereflected at final prices in the results for the period.
The final selling price for all provisionally priced products is based on the price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
Final prices for copper concentrate are normally determined between 30 and 180 days after delivery to the customer.
Thechange in value of the provisionally priced receivable is based on relevant forward market prices and is included in sales revenue.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 240 million pounds of copper sales 31 December 2017: 250 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US277 cents per pound 2017: US 304 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2019.
A 10% change intheprice of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales, all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by US$37 million 2017: US$41 million.
The Group is also exposed to changes in commodity prices on purchases of raw materials and consumables.
com Financial statements Hedging strategy Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally consider that commodityfixedprice hedging would provide a long-term benefit to shareholders.
In order to mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in the relationship between aluminium prices and power prices, the Group has a number ofelectricity purchase contracts which are directly linked to the daily official LME cash ask price for high grade aluminium LME price and to theUSMidwest Transaction Premium Midwest premium.
On transition to IFRS 9, the Group elected to apply hedge accounting to two existing embedded derivatives within the Groups power contracts.
Theembedded derivatives notional aluminium forward sales have been designated as the hedging instrument, with the forecasted aluminium sales, priced using the LME price and the Midwest premium, representing the hedged item.
The hedging ratio is 1:1 as the quantity of sales designated as being hedged matches the notional amount of the hedging instrument.
The hedging instruments notional amount, expressed in equivalent metric tonnes of aluminium, is derived from the expected electricity consumption under the power contracts as well as other relevant contract parameters.
When such embedded derivatives are designated as the hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in the fair value ofthe hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve.
The amount that is recognised in other comprehensive income is limited to the lesser of the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the cumulative change inthe fair value of the hedged item, in absolute terms.
Any ineffectiveness relating to the hedging relationship is recognised immediately in the incomestatement.
Sources of ineffectiveness include: differences in the timing of the cash flows between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, non-zero initial fairvalue of the hedging instrument, the existence of a cap on the Midwest premium in the hedging instrument and counterparty credit risk.
The Group is holding the following notional aluminium forward sales contracts embedded in the power contracts: Between 1 and Between 5 and At 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 5 years 10 years After 10 years Notional amount in tonnes 56,481 286,666 358,416 65,548 Notional amount in US$ millions 114 634 870 168 Average hedged rate in US$ per tonne 2,013 2,210 2,426 2,562 The impact of the hedging instrument on the Group balance sheet is as follows: Change in fair value used for measuring Notional Carrying Line item in the ineffectiveness amount value statement of for the period At 31 December 2018 US$m US$m financial position US$m Other financial asset US$54m and other financial a Aluminium embedded derivatives separated from the power contract 1,786 8 liability US$46m 205 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
The impact of the hedged item on the Group balance sheet is: Change in fair value used for measuring ineffectiveness for Cash flow hedge the period reserve At 31 December 2018 US$m US$m Highly probable forecast aluminium sales 182 179 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 193 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued The effect of the cash flow hedge in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income OCI is: Amount Total hedging Ineffectiveness reclassified gain recognised recognised in Line item in from OCI to Line item in the in OCI profit or loss the statement of profit or loss statement of At 31 December 2018 US$m US$m profit or loss US$m profit or loss Net operating costs raw materials, consumables, repairs and Consolidated Highly probable forecast aluminium sales 181 24 maintenance 2 sales revenue There was no cost of hedging recognised during 2018 relating to this hedge relationship.
Details of commodity derivatives, not designated as hedges held at 31 December 2018 are set out in section B. Sensitivities The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices.
The table below summarises the impact that changes in aluminium market prices have on aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in power supply agreements outstanding at 31 December 2018.
There will be an offsetting change in future Group earnings with any changes in price.
Change in 2018 2017 market prices US$m US$m Effect on net earnings 10% 102 203 -10% 35 212 Effect on equity 10% 101 -10% 103 The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
Such contracts to buy or sell non-financial items continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
iii Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including investments intreasury and liquidity funds, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short-term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
Credit risks related to receivables Customer credit risk is managed by the Commercial team subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer creditrisk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit qualityof the customer is assessed based on a credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concernshighlighted to senior management.
Shipments to major customers are often covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had approximately 113 customers 2017: 115 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances accounted for approximately 84% 2017: 78% of all trade receivables.
There were 17 customers 2017: 23 customers with balances greater thanUS$20 million accounting for just over 34% 2017: 35% of all trade receivables.
The expected credit loss on the Groups trade receivable portfolio isinsignificant see note 18. Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US Government, corporate and asset-backed securities or money market funds, and balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board-approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds aremade only with approved investment grade BBBand above counterparties who have been assigned specific credit limits.
The board reviews these annually.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.
com Financial statements The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2018 2017 Note US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,773 10,550 Trade and other financial receivables 18 3,007 2,985 Investments 20 2,782 1,152 Derivative assets 20 556 267 Loans to equity accounted units 38 39 Total 17,156 14,993 iv Foreign exchange risk The Groups earnings, cash flows and shareholders equity are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs areinfluenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
Apart from the US dollar, the Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important currencies influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening oftheUS dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly denominated has a positive effect on Rio Tintos underlying earnings.
However, astrengthening of the US dollar does reduce the value of non-US dollar-denominated net assets and therefore total equity.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the use of derivatives, as it is the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
The majority of debt and other financial assets and liabilities including intragroup balances, are held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
In a small number of instances, US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are held in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. The Groups income statement includes realised and unrealised exchange gains losses arising on US dollar external borrowings and intragroup balances in entities with a non-US dollar functional currency.
On translation to the Groups US dollar presentation currency, there is a corresponding and offsetting exchange difference on translation of these balances which is recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
There is no impact on total equity.
Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on non-trading intragroup balances are excluded from underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross-currency interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
The table below summarises, by currency, the Groups net debt, after taking into account relevant cross-currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchangecontracts: Total borrowings Derivatives Cash and Net cash Net cash excluding related to net cash Other debt debt overdrafts debt equivalents investments 2018 2017 Net cash debt by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 12,080 288 10,310 2,522 464 3,628 Australian dollar 472 217 255 208 Euro 39 17 22 58 South African rand 95 95 59 Canadian dollar 157 23 134 148 Other 3 110 107 138 Total 12,751 288 10,772 2,522 255 3,845 Hedging strategy Under normal market conditions, the Group does not consider that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and will undertake hedging if deemed appropriate.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances.
Capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividend cash flows may be hedged subject to strict limits laid down by the board.
Refer to section B for details of the cross-currency interest rate swaps, and the currency forward and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2018.
com 195 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Sensitivities The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial assets and financial liabilities, including intragroup balances, of a 10% strengtheningin the closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies.
10% is the annual exchange rate movement that management deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run for one of the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an appropriate representation.
Sensitivities are calculated in the functional currencies of individual Group entities.
The impact of these on net earnings and underlying earnings is translated into US dollars at the year-end exchange rates presented in note 41.
The sensitivity associated with a 10% weakening of a particular currency would be broadly equal and opposite within equity to the figures presented below.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2018, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2019, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2018 Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect on impacting Impact exchange net underlying directly rate earnings earnings on equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 70 346 1 993 Canadian dollar 73 82 7 Euro 114 202 5 At 31 December 2017 Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect on impacting Impact exchange net underlying directly rate earnings earnings on equity Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m Australian dollar 78 608 47 1,657 Canadian dollar 79 134 3 Euro 120 165 2 v Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based onthe historically lower cost of borrowing at floating rates and historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
However, in certain circumstances the Group may elect to maintain a higher proportion of fixed-rate funding.
Hedging strategy As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis.
During 2018, in conjunction with its liability management programme, the Group closed out interest rate swaps with a notional principal amount of US$1.9 billion 2017: US$2.0 billion, giving rise to a net cash outflow of US$51 million 2017: US$5 million, including accrued interest of US$11 million 2017: US$2 million.
The interest rate swaps were in fair value hedge relationships prior to being closed out.
See section B for details of currency and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
At the end of 2018, US$10.2 billion 2017: US$12.5 billion of the Groups adjusted gross borrowings were at floating rates after taking into account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a floating to fixed debt ratio of 79% floating to 21% fixed 2017: 82% floating to 18% fixed.
The weighted average maturity was approximately 11 years 2017: ten years based on current interest rates and the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
See note 22 for the details of outstanding debt and hedging arrangements with regard to debt at 31 December 2018.
Sensitivities Based on the floating rate financial instruments outstanding at 31 December 2018, the effect on net earnings of a 100 basis point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an income of US$8 million 2017: charge of US$8 million due to the net cash position in 2018 versus the net debt position in 2017.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair value movements on derivatives in the cash flow hedge reserve.
These derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollars.
With all factors remaining constant, and based on the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2018, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by a charge of US$69 million 2017: US$84 million charge for sterling and a credit of US$78 million 2017: US$88 million credit for US dollars.
A 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2019, and therefore this information should be used with care.
com Financial statements B Derivative financial instruments The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December, are summarised below.
Total fair value 2018 2017 Asset Liability Asset Liability US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivatives designated as hedges a Interest rate swaps 70 137 99 127 b Cross-currency interest rate swaps 221 149 c Aluminium embedded derivatives 54 46 Total derivatives designated as hedges 124 404 99 276 Derivatives not designated as hedges Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 68 7 2 d Aluminium forward contracts 26 19 21 9 c Aluminium embedded derivatives 346 140 238 Other embedded derivatives 6 5 Other commodity contracts 54 11 1 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 432 98 168 255 Total derivative instruments 556 502 267 531 Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 88 95 29 50 Between 1 and 5 years 153 205 31 233 More than 5 years 315 202 207 248 Total 556 502 267 531 Total net derivative instruments 54 264 2018 2017 Reconciliation to balance sheet Note US$m US$m Non-current assets 20 468 238 Current assets 20 88 29 Current liabilities 22 95 50 Non-current liabilities 22 407 481 Total net derivative instruments 54 264 a The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 22. b The cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non-US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22. c Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
d T he aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to the market price LME cash.
In 2017 and 2018 these contracts were not designated ashedges.
C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash equivalents and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Short-term borrowings 22 312 312 552 552 Medium-term and long-term borrowings 22 12,440 13,554 14,624 16,385 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$7.5 billion 2017: US$9.6 billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$8.3 billion 2017: US$10.9 billion andare categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
Borrowings with a carrying value of US$4.2 billion 2017: US$4.1 billion relate to project finance drawn down with a fair value of US$4.6 billion 2017: US$4.7 billion and are categorised as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
This is because the fair valueof OyuTolgois borrowings has been estimated with reference to a market yield, the variability of which is considered a reasonable indicator, over thepre-completion period, of movements in the fair value of amounts drawn under the project finance facility.
Post-completion, the fair value has been estimated with reference to the annual interest rate on each tranche of the facility, and consideration of factors that could indicate a change in the credit assessment of Oyu Tolgoi LLC as a counterparty to project finance.
These considerations include in-country risk relating to the Oyu Tolgoi project, and theassumed date of transition from pre-completion to post-completion.
Refer to note 31 for a description of Rio Tintos guarantee arrangements with respect to project finance borrowings.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
com 197 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued C a Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method, under IFRS 9, at 31 December 2018.
Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 10,773 7,994 2,779 Investments in equity shares and funds 130 92 38 d Other investments, including loans 20 2,782 2,544 232 6 e Trade and other financial receivables 18 3,007 20 972 2,015 16,692 10,650 972 270 4,800 Derivatives net f Forward contracts and option contracts: designated as hedges Section B 8 8 f Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 334 25 359 g Derivatives related to net debt Section B 288 288 Liabilities Trade and other financial payables 25 5,552 39 5,513 Total 11,194 10,650 620 637 713 The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method, under IAS 39, at 31 December 2017.
Not held a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 at fair value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 10,550 10,550 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 136 88 3 45 d Other investments, including loans 20 1,152 1,037 88 27 e Trade and other receivables 2,985 90 2,895 14,823 1,125 90 91 13,517 Derivatives net f Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 87 11 98 g Derivatives related to net debt Section B 177 177 Liabilities Trade and other financial payables 5,922 15 5,907 Total 8,637 1,125 91 7 7,610 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
b V aluation is based either on inputs which include quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active, or on inputs, which are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
c Valuation is based on inputs that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d O ther investments, including loans, comprise: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds, managed investment funds and royalty receivables.
The royalty receivables are valued based on future expected output as well as future expected commodity prices.
e T rade receivables include provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where the selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
Under IFRS 9, provisionally priced receivables at 31 December 2018 were US$889 million and were fair valued.
In the prior year, under IAS 39, only the embedded pricing derivatives, which were separated from the host receivables, were fair valued 31 December 2017: US$90 million.
f L evel 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2025 and 2030 2017: 2018 and 2030.
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$338 million at 31 December 2018 2017:US$ 98 million are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative extends beyond the forward curve for aluminium and includes unobservable market premium prices.
In valuing these derivatives, aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of each contract.
Future market premiums are estimated based on historical trends.
The range of market prices are US$2,426 per metric tonne in 2029 to US$2,507 in 2030 2017: US$2,679 per metric tonnein2028 to US$2,848 in 2030. g I nterest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market-quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest rate swap valuations also use market-quoted foreign exchange rates.
A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2, or between level 2 and level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2018 or in the year ended 31 December 2017.
com Financial statements C b Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities.
2018 2017 Level 3 Level 3 financial assets financial assets and financial and financial liabilities liabilities US$m US$m Opening balance 7 479 Adjustment from transition to IFRS 9 19 Currency translation adjustments 23 8 Total realised gains losses included in: consolidated sales revenue 1 net operating costs 9 5 Total unrealised gains losses included in: consolidated sales revenue 17 net operating costs 375 508 Total unrealised gains transferred into other comprehensive income through cash flow hedges 181 Additions 67 Disposals maturity of financial instruments 6 5 Transfers 22 6 Closing balance 637 7 Total gains losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 346 491 Sensitivity analysis in respect of level 3 derivatives The values of aluminium forward contracts and options that are determined using unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted cashflow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant of these assumptions relate to long-term pricing wherein aluminium prices are increased by a projected inflation after the ten-year LME curve.
A 10% increase in long-term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$22 million 31 December 2017: US$41 million decrease in carrying value.
A 10% decrease in long-term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$14 million 31 December 2017: US$22 million increase in carrying value.
The Group has a royalty asset arising from the sale of coal assets in prior periods.
The value is determined using level 3 unobservable inputs.
Themain unobservable input is the long-term coal price used over the life of the royalty asset.
A 15% increase in the coal spot price would result inaUS$181 million increase in the carrying value.
A 15% decrease in the coal spot price would result in a US$95 million decrease in the carrying value.
31 Contingencies and commitments 2018 2017 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of joint venture capital commitments Within 1 year 1,742 2,052 Between 1 and 3 years 439 531 Between 3 and 5 years 66 58 After 5 years 36 Total 2,283 2,641 Groups share of joint venture capital commitments Within 1 year 115 29 Between 1 and 3 years 1 Total 116 29 Our capital commitments include open purchase orders for managed operations and expenditure on major projects already authorised by our Investment Committee for non-managed operations.
On a legally enforceable basis, capital commitments would be approximately US$0.4 billion 2017: US$0.5 billion as many of the contracts relating to the Groups projects have various cancellation clauses.
com 199 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 31 Contingencies and commitments continued Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to joint ventures We have a commitment to purchase and market a portion in excess of the Groups ownership interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. an aluminium smelter in which the Group is a joint venture partner.
The Group immediately sells the purchased products to third parties.
Along with the other joint venture partners, we have commitments to provide emergency funding ie funding required to preserve the life or assets ofthecompany or to comply with applicable laws if required by Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. subject to approved thresholds.
At 31 December 2018, Minera Escondida Limitada held an undrawn shareholder line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share: 31 December 2017: US$225million.
The current facility will mature in September 2019.
Operating leases The aggregate amounts of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 US$m US$m Within 1 year 475 397 Between 1 and 3 years 587 542 Between 3 and 5 years 270 313 After 5 years 385 593 Total 1,717 1,845 Operating leases include leases of dry bulk vessels and offices as well as other property, plant and equipment.
The terms of lease payments vary, with asignificant proportion being fixed rate and including renewal options.
Leases for dry bulk vessels include costs for crewing services.
The Group will implement IFRS 16 Leases as at 1 January 2019: refer to note 1.
Purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: a Adjusted 2018 2017 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,804 2,874 Between 1 and 2 years 1,565 1,712 Between 2 and 3 years 1,344 1,401 Between 3 and 4 years 1,097 1,282 Between 4 and 5 years 882 1,026 After 5 years 9,358 11,185 Total 17,050 19,480 a The 2017 comparative has been amended to correctly reflect certain purchase obligations at 31 December 2017.
The impact is a reduction in future payment commitments of US$309 million.
Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding agreements to buy goods or services.
They specify all significant terms, including: fixed orminimum quantities to be purchased or consumed: fixed, minimum or variable price provisions: and the approximate timing of the transactions.
Purchase obligations for goods mainly relate to purchases of raw materials and consumables and purchase obligations for services mainly relate tocharges for the use of infrastructure, commitments to purchase power and freight contracts.
These goods and services are expected to be usedinthebusiness.
To the extent that this changes, a provision for onerous obligations may be made as described in note 1 i.
Purchases from joint arrangements or associates are included if the quantity purchased is in excess of our ownership interest in the entity.
However, purchase obligations exclude contracted purchases of bauxite, alumina and aluminium from joint arrangements and associates and contractedpurchases of alumina from third parties.
This is because these purchases are made for commercial reasons and the Group is, overall, anetseller of these commodities.
com Financial statements As described above, we also have a commitment to buy and market a portion in excess of our ownership interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations 2018 2017 US$m US$m a b Indemnities and other performance guarantees 317 552 a I ndemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual arrangements forexample undertakings related to supplier agreements not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Contingent liabilities In October 2017, Rio Tinto announced that it had been notified by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that the SEC had filed a complaint in relation to Rio Tintos disclosures and timing of the impairment of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
The impairment was reflected in Rio Tintos 2012 year-end accounts.
The SEC alleges that Rio Tinto, a former chief executive, Tom Albanese, and a former chief financial officer, Guy Elliott, committed violations of the anti-fraud, reporting, books and records and internal control provisions of the federal securities law by not accurately disclosing the value of RTCM and not impairing it when Rio Tinto published its 2011 year-end accounts in February 2012 or its 2012 interim results in August 2012.
In October 2017, an associated US class action was commenced on behalf of securities holders.
In March 2018, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ASIC filed civil proceedings in the NSW District Registry of the Federal Court of Australia against Rio Tinto Limited, Albanese, and Elliott.
On 1 May 2018, ASIC expanded its proceedings.
ASIC alleges that Rio Tinto committed violations of the disclosure, accounting, and misleading or deceptive conduct provisions of the Corporations Act by making misleading or deceptive statements related to RTCM in its 2011 Annual report and its 2012 interim financial statements, not complying with accounting standards in respect of its 2012 interim financial statements, and not disclosing an impairment of RTCM in its 2012 interim financial statements.
ASIC further alleges Albanese and Elliott breached their duties as directors or officers, and failed to take all reasonable steps to comply with relevant accounting requirements.
Rio Tinto believes that the SEC case and the ASIC proceedings are unwarranted and that, when all the facts are considered by the courts, the claims willbe rejected.
Rio Tinto will defend the allegations vigorously.
In October 2017, Rio Tinto reached a settlement with the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA related to the timing of the impairment of RTCM, with theFCA determining that Rio Tinto had breached the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, imposing a financial penalty on Rio Tinto of 27.4 million US$36.4 million.
It is important to stress that the FCA made no findings of fraud, or of any systemic or widespread failure by Rio Tinto.
This separate FCAcase is now closed.
In addition, Rio Tinto continues to co-operate fully with relevant authorities in connection with their investigations in relation to contractual payments totalling US$10.5 million made to a consultant who had provided advisory services in 2011 on the Simandou project in Guinea.
In August 2018, the court dismissed a related US class action commenced on behalf of securities holders.
The outcomes of these matters remain uncertain, but they could ultimately expose the Group to material financial cost.
The board is giving these mattersits full and proper attention and a dedicated board committee continues to monitor the progress of these matters.
The Group is monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations including the EU Commissions State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company taxation regime.
The Group does not currently consider that any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
Guarantees by parent companies Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by the following 100% owned finance subsidiaries: US$4.4 billion 31 December 2017: US$5.8 billion Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited and Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds withmaturity dates up to 2042: and US$1.6 billion 31 December 2017: US$2.1 billion on the European Debt Issuance Programme.
In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion 31 December 2017: US$7.5billion.
The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto plc has provided a guarantee, known as the completion support undertaking CSU, in favour of the Oyu Tolgoi LLC project finance lenders.
At31December 2018, US$4.3 billion of project finance debt was outstanding under this facility 2017: US$4.3 billion.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is jointly owned byErdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC 34%, which is controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd 66%, of which Rio Tinto owns 51%.
The project finance has been raised for development of the underground mine and the CSU will terminate on the completion of the underground mine according to a set of completion tests set out in the project finance facility.
The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLCs project finance debt servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU contain a carve-out for certain political risk events.
Contingent assets The Group has, from time to time, various insurance claims outstanding with reinsurers.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, the average number of employees in Singapore was 422 2017: 434: 2016: 262 and the average number of employees in India was 288 2017: 310: 2016: 280.
Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100% of employees of subsidiary companies.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest under contractual agreements.
Average employee numbers include a part-year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
com Financial statements 33 Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2018 Proportion Group Class of shares of class interest Non-controlling Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities held held % % interest % Australia Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 Dampier Salt Limited Salt and gypsum Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 a North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: Ordinary 100 100 primary aluminiumsmelting a Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining Class A 40 60 40 Class B 76.36 Brazil c Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production and bauxite mining Quota 100 100 Canada d Iron Ore Company of Canada Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common 58.72 58.72 41.28 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high purity Common 100 100 iron and steel Class B preference 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: Common 100 100 aluminium smelting e Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. Diamond mining and processing Common 100 100 Guinea f Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 Madagascar g QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common 80 80 15 Investment certificates 100 100 Voting certificates 80 80 20 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common 50.79 50.79 49.21 h Oyu Tolgoi LLC Namibia i Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.22 68.62 31.38 C N10c 70.59 South Africa j Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited Titanium dioxide: high purity B Ordinary 100 ironproduction B preference 100 74 26 Parent Preference 100 j Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B Ordinary 100 B preference 100 74 26 Parent Preference 100 US Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and Common US$0.01 100 100 KennecottUtah Copper and Kennecott Exploration refining and exploration activities U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 This list includes only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
Refer to note 47 for a list of relatedundertakings.
com 203 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued The Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a R obe River Mining Co Pty Ltd which is 60% owned by the Group holds a 30% interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
North Mining Ltd which is wholly owned by the Group holds a35% interest in Robe River.
Through these companies the Group recognises a 65% share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of Robe River, with a 12% non-controlling interest.
The Group therefore has a 53% beneficial interest in Robe River.
b Q ueensland Coal Pty Limited was the main legal entity that held the Groups interests in Hail Creek 82% and Kestrel 80%.
These were unincorporated arrangements that were not entities: the Group recognised its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
On 1 August 2018, the Group sold its 82% interest in the Hail Creek coal mineand its80% interest in the Kestrel underground coal mine.
c A lcan Alumina Ltda holds the Groups 10% interest in Consrcio fide Alumnio Do Maranho, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a joint operator.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
d Iron Ore Company of Canada is incorporated in the US, but operates in Canada.
e D iavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. DDMI is the legal entity that owns the Groups 60% interest in the Diavik Joint Venture, an unincorporated arrangement.
The Group recognises its share of assets, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
Liabilities are recognised according to DDMIs contractual obligations, with a corresponding 40% receivable or contingent asset representing the co-owners share where applicable.
f S imfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53% interest, has an 85% interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou mining project inGuinea.
The Group therefore has a 45.05% indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
g T he Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80% economic interest and 80% of the total voting rights: a further 5% economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85%.
The non-controlling interests have a 15% economic interest and 20% of the total voting rights.
h T he Group has a 50.79% interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd, which holds a 66% interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT which is a subsidiary of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
The Group therefore hasa 33.5% indirect interest in OT.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd is incorporated in Canada but operates principally in Mongolia.
i T he Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited entitles it to 35.57% of the total voting rights: the non-controlling interests hold 64.43% of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidatedby virtue of the Groups board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia: this is considered tobeaprotective right.
Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rssing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
At 31 December 2018, assets and liabilities held for sale included our entire interest inRssingUranium Limited.
j Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
TheGroups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited is 74%.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100% basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared inaccordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore Iron Ore Energy Energy Company of Company of Resources of Resources of Turquoise Turquoise a b a b Canada Canada Australia Australia Hill Hill 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,561 1,867 151 157 1,180 940 Profit loss after tax 298 377 241 29 139 22 attributable to non-controlling interests 122 156 1 9 14 49 attributable to Rio Tinto 176 221 242 20 125 71 Other comprehensive loss income 136 144 2 4 4 Total comprehensive income loss 162 521 239 29 135 26 Non-current assets 2,376 2,535 74 57 10,375 9,008 Current assets 459 714 311 406 3,813 4,953 Current liabilities 351 449 123 128 540 504 Non-current liabilities 791 838 522 356 4,367 4,311 Net assets liabilities 1,693 1,962 260 21 9,281 9,146 attributable to non-controlling interests 699 809 6 7 3,936 3,982 attributable to Rio Tinto 994 1,153 254 14 5,345 5,164 Cash flow from operations 553 840 64 2 357 295 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 178 162 a Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds a controlling interest in OT.
b Under the terms of the project finance facility held by OT, there are certain restrictions on the ability of OT to make shareholder distributions.
com Financial statements Other Other Robe River Robe River companies companies Mining Co Mining Co and and c c Pty Pty eliminations eliminations Robe River Robe River 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,082 1,164 1,262 1,351 2,344 2,515 Profit after tax 561 617 543 637 1,104 1,254 attributable to non-controlling interests 218 242 218 242 attributable to Rio Tinto 343 375 543 637 886 1,012 Other comprehensive loss income 313 238 203 158 516 396 Total comprehensive income 248 855 340 795 588 1,650 Non-current assets 2,610 2,927 3,739 4,187 6,349 7,114 d Current assets 710 875 2,368 1,149 3,078 2,024 Current liabilities 111 186 235 1,357 346 1,543 d Non-current liabilities 117 174 3,977 2,244 4,094 2,418 Net assets 3,092 3,442 1,895 1,735 4,987 5,177 attributable to non-controlling interests 1,237 1,375 1,237 1,375 attributable to Rio Tinto 1,855 2,067 1,895 1,735 3,750 3,802 Cash flow from operations 933 1,048 1,151 1,207 2,084 2,255 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 224 230 224 230 c Other companies and eliminations includes North Mining Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group which accounts for its interest in Robe River and goodwill of US$351 million 2017: US$389 million that arose on the Groups acquisition of its interest in Robe River.
d The 2017 comparative has been adjusted to more appropriately classify certain balances.
34 Principal joint operations At 31 December 2018 Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities Group interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 a b Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 Pilbara Iron arrangement Infrastructure, corporate andmining services c New Zealand a b New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.36 Canada Aluminerie Alouette Inc. Aluminium production 40 US b d Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.2 This list includes only those joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
Refer to note 47 for a list ofrelated undertakings.
The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 79.4% interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80% interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect thereturns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
b Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of output to theparties sharing joint control: this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties in effect have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification of these entities as joint operations.
c A n umber of arrangements are in place between the Australian Iron Ore operations managed by Rio Tinto which allow their respective assets to be operated as a single integrated network across the Pilbara region.
The arrangements are managed through two wholly owned subsidiaries: Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd and Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd.
In assessing the Pilbara Ironarrangements, it has been concluded that they collectively constitute a joint operation on the basis that decisions about relevant activities require unanimous consent.
The resulting efficiencies are shared between Rio Tinto and Robe River Iron Associates Robe River, and the parties fund all of the cash flow requirements of Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd andPilbara Iron Pty Ltd. d Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1% interest in the Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
com 205 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 35 Principal joint ventures At 31 December 2018 Class of Proportion Group Number of shares of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held held held % % Chile a Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 Oman b Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. Aluminium smelting: power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 This list includes only those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a A lthough the Group has a 30% interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements provide for an Owners Council whereby significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated in effect require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton holders of a 57.5% interest.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has joint control.
The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are, however, based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
b A lthough the Group holds a 20% interest in Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100% basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Minera Minera Sohar Sohar Escondida Escondida Aluminium Aluminium a a b b Limitada Limitada Co. L. L. C. Co. L. L. C. 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 7,580 6,037 810 460 Depreciation and amortisation 1,727 1,690 120 145 Other operating costs 3,230 2,617 440 205 Operating profit 2,623 1,730 250 110 Finance expense 163 120 35 35 Income tax 873 627 40 Profit after tax 1,587 983 175 75 Total comprehensive income 1,587 983 175 75 Non-current assets 13,027 13,814 3,085 3,230 Current assets 2,413 2,760 340 305 Current liabilities 1,637 1,727 230 205 Non-current liabilities 4,460 4,617 955 1,270 Net assets 9,343 10,230 2,240 2,060 Assets and liabilities above include: cash and cash equivalents 697 460 15 95 current financial liabilities 230 330 100 130 non-current financial liabilities 2,763 2,840 795 1,120 Dividends received from joint venture Rio Tinto share 786 780 Reconciliation of the above amounts to the investment recognised in the Group balance sheet Group interest 30% 30% 20% 20% Net assets 9,343 10,230 2,240 2,060 Groups ownership interest 2,803 3,069 448 412 Other adjustments 4 1 3 Carrying value of Groups interest 2,803 3,073 447 409 a I n addition to its Investment in equity accounted units, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$413 million 2017: US$500 million relating to tax on unremitted earnings of equity accounted units.
b Under covenants stipulated in the agreement to Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. s secured loan facilities, Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. is currently restricted from making any shareholder distributions until 2021 unless a specified amount of the loan facilities is funded.
com Financial statements 36 Principal associates At 31 December 2018 Proportion Group Number of Class of of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held held % % Australia a Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brazil b Minerao Rio do Norte S. A.
25,000,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 Bauxite mining 12 47,000,000,000 Preferred 11.75 US c Halco Mining Inc. 4,500 Common 45 45 This list includes only those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a T he parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the parties.
Although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b A lthough the Group holds only 12% of Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
c Halco Mining Inc. has a 51% indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100% basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters a a Limited Limited 2018 2017 US$m US$m Revenue Loss profit after tax 12 5 b Other comprehensive loss income 68 56 Total comprehensive loss income 80 61 Non-current assets 1,268 1,468 Current assets 93 88 Current liabilities 113 99 Non-current liabilities 842 996 Net assets 406 461 Reconciliation of the above amount to the investment recognised in the Group balance sheet Group interest 59.4% 59.4% Net assets 406 461 Groups ownership interest 241 274 Loans to equity accounted units 129 159 Carrying value of Groups interest 370 433 a B oyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation: as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls.
Rio Tinto has made certain prepayments toBoyne fortoll processing of alumina.
These are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
b Other comprehensive loss income is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
com 207 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates continued Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group Joint Joint ventures ventures Associates Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Carrying value of Groups interest 679 571 Profit after tax 9 25 Other comprehensive income 23 14 Total comprehensive income 14 39 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates On 14 December 2018, we completed the sale of the Dunkerque aluminium andother interests in businesses smelter in northern France to Liberty House for US$500 million.
In 2018 we Acquisitions received net cash proceeds of US$385 million after adjustments and expect Over the past three years, we have made no material acquisitions.
However, to receive a further US$52 million in 2019.
We recognised a pre-tax gain on on 10 May 2018 we created a joint venture, Elysis, with Alcoa and other disposal of US$128 million.
partners to develop and commercialise a carbon-free aluminium smelting process.
We are treating this as an acquisition for accounting purposes.
On 21 December 2018, we sold our interest in the Grasberg mine for Wehave accounted for our interest in Elysis using the equity method, with US$3.5billion as part of a series of transactions involving Inalum PT the initial purchase price allocation based on an independent valuation.
Indonesia Asahan Aluminium Persero and Freeport McMoRan Inc. Of Weinvested cash of US$5 million and contributed patents and licensed theUS$3.5 billion received, US$107 million relates to our attributable share intellectual property IP to the venture.
The patents and IP had no carrying ofcopper and gold revenues for 2018, net of our capital contribution for value: however, on formation of the arrangement, they were recorded at fair theyear.
The remaining net proceeds of US$3,392 million were included in value to reflect the contributions of the other parties in the joint venture.
investing cash flow and gave rise to a gain on disposal of US$2,146 million.
This value was US$171 million US$141 million after tax.
2017 disposals Also, in May 2017, our subsidiary, Simfer Jersey Limited Rio Tinto share: On 1 September 2017, we disposed of our 100% shareholding in Coal 53% purchased a 4.25% interest in Simfer S. A. from International Finance &Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited for a total Corporation IFC for US$194 million in accordance with a put option consideration of US$2.69 billion before working capital adjustments.
As a result, we increased our effective share of Simfer comprises US$2.45 billion in cash paid on the closing date and a further S. A. from 42.80% to 45.05%.
US$240 million of unconditional guaranteed royalty payments.
During 2017, we received US$110 million: total net cash proceeds received in 2017, net of 2018 disposals working capital adjustments, transaction costs and cash transferred, were On 1 June 2018, we disposed of our entire 75% interest in the Winchester US$2.54 billion.
We received a further US$90 million of unconditional South coal development project in Queensland, Australia to Whitehaven guaranteed royalty payments in 2018 and expect to receive the remaining Coal Limited for US$200 million.
This comprised US$150 million cashwhich US$40 million between 2019 and 2021. was received in the year and recognised within net cash generated from operating activities within the cash flow statement andanunconditional 2016 disposals cash payment of US$50 million due in June 2019.
Againon disposal of On 1 March 2016, we disposed of our 40% interest in the Bengalla Joint US$195 million was recognised within profit relating tointerests in Venture to New Hope Corporation Limited for US$617 million before undeveloped projects in the income statement.
finalisation of net debt and working capital adjustments.
On 1 August 2018, we completed the sale of our entire interest in the On 31 March 2016, we disposed of our 100% interest in Carbone Savoie HailCreek coal mine 82.0% and the Valeria coal development project toAlandia Industries.
71.2% in Queensland, Australia to Glencore for a total consideration ofUS$1.7 billion.
We transferred our 53.83% shareholding in Bougainville Copper Limited BCL to Equity Trustees Limited independent trustee on 30 June 2016 We received net proceeds of US$1,545 million after completion adjustments forUS$nil consideration.
Equity Trustees Limited subsequently distributed in respect of the Hail Creek component of this transaction, resulting in a the shares in accordance with the trust deed to nominees of each of the pre-tax gain of US$1,141 million.
We also received cash proceeds of US$170 Autonomous Bougainville Government 36.4% and the Independent State million in respect of Valeria.
Of this amount, US$87 million relating to the of Papua New Guinea 17.4% such that each party now controls an equal sale of land and investments in associates was included in investing cash share of BCL 36.4%.
We did not previously consolidate BCL because we flow, resulting in a pre-tax gain of US$18 million.
The remaining US$83 determined that, in accordance with IFRS as defined in note 1, the Group million proceeds were recognised in operating cash flow, resulting in a does not control the relevant activities, as the mining of copper at the pre-tax gain of US$83 million in profit relating to interests in Panguna mine was halted by militant activity in 1989.
had previously been fully impaired and therefore the transfer resultedin nofinancial impact for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Also on 1 August 2018, we completed the sale of our entire interest in theKestrel underground coal mine 80.0% for US$2.25 billion to a consortium comprising EMR Capital EMR and PT Adaro Energy Tbk Adaro.
We received net cash proceeds of US$2,270 million, resulting inapre-tax gain of US$1,010 million.
com Financial statements On 20 July 2016, a tranche of 7.5% non-contributory shares in Simfer S. A. was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea as per the terms of the Simandou project agreement signed in 2014, further diluting our ownership percentage and also our partners in the project.
Under the agreement, a second tranche comprising 10% Ordinary Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of historical mining cost.
The remaining two tranches of 5% ordinary contributing shares may be acquired by the Government of Guinea at market value at any time after 22April 2026 and 22 April 2031 respectively.
On 2 September 2016, we disposed of our interest in Zululand AnthraciteColliery.
On 23 November 2016, we disposed of our 100% interest in Lochaber to SIMEC for US$410 million before finalisation of closing adjustments and transaction costs.
We received US$224 million of this in December 2016 and the second and final instalment in April 2017.
38 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2018 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 9,069 8,339 9,186 Long term incentive plans 2,923 4,685 3,071 11,992 13,024 12,257 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 80 135 69 Gains made on exercise of share options 107 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$11,465,000 2017: US$12,624,000: 2016: US$10,630,000.
Theaggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$80,000 2017: US$135,000: 2016: US$69,000.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$607,000 2017: US$535,000: 2016: US$1,696,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil 2017: US$nil: 2016: US$nil.
During 2018, no directors 2017: nil: 2016: one accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and three directors 2017: two: 2016:two accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average exchange rate for the year with the exception of bonuspayments, which have been translated at the year-end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3, onpages 101 to 136.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Groups key management, including directors, wasas follows: 2018 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits and costs 23,978 23,095 22,269 Post-employment benefits 629 415 3,461 Employment termination benefits 69 2,682 Share-based payments 14,916 8,033 15,806 Total 39,592 31,543 44,218 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in Canada, the UK and US and payroll taxes inAustralia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,360,000 2017: US$2,122,000: 2016: US$2,295,000 andalthough disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration report.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3 on pages 101 to136.
com 209 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 39 Auditors remuneration a Group Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m Audit of the Group 9.2 6.2 4.5 Audit of subsidiaries 7.5 8.1 9.0 Total audit 16.7 14.3 13.5 Audit-related assurance service 0.9 1.0 0.9 b Other assurance services 3.3 2.3 0.6 Total assurance services 4.2 3.3 1.5 c Tax compliance 0.3 0.5 c Tax advisory services 0.2 0.1 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.2 0.7 1.8 Total non-audit services 4.4 4.5 3.9 Total Group Auditors remuneration 21.1 18.8 17.4 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries 1.4 2.0 2.1 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.1 0.5 0.3 Total audit fees payable to other accounting firms 1.5 2.5 2.4 a T he remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and approves thenature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firmsofPwC by the companies and their subsidiaries, along with fees in respect of joint operations paid for by the Group.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
Also included in amounts above are US$0.1 million for audits relating to associated pension schemes of the company and US$0.1 million of non-audit services relating toassociated pension schemes.
b Other assurance services relates to the review of non-statutory financial information including sustainability reporting.
c Tax compliance and tax advisory services incurred in the year amounted to US$0.04 million.
40 Related-party transactions Information about material related-party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below.
Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to sales of alumina to equity accounted units for smelting into aluminium.
Income statement items 2018 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,209 993 1,216 Sales to equity accounted units 493 210 248 Cash flow statement items Dividends from equity accounted units 800 817 253 Net funding of equity accounted units 9 3 12 Balance sheet items a Investments in equity accounted units 15 4,299 4,486 5,019 Loans to equity accounted units 20 38 39 39 Loans from equity accounted units 22 31 49 b Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units 18 278 299 298 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units 25 223 175 243 a Investments in equity accounted units include quasi equity loans.
Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36. b This includes prepayments of tolling charges.
com Financial statements Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is set out in note 44.
Directors and key management Details of directors and key managements remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 101 to 136.
41 Exchange rates in US$ The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2018 financial statements were: Full-year average Year-end 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Sterling 1.34 1.29 1.36 1.27 1.34 1.22 Australian dollar 0.75 0.77 0.74 0.70 0.78 0.72 Canadian dollar 0.77 0.77 0.76 0.73 0.79 0.74 Euro 1.18 1.13 1.11 1.14 1.20 1.05 South African rand 0.076 0.075 0.068 0.069 0.081 0.073 42 Events after the balance sheet date There were no significant events identified after the balance sheet date that are required to be disclosed.
43 Share-based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a number of share-based incentive plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration report.
These planshave been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based incentive plans, and the related liability for cash-settled plans, is set out in the table below.
Charge recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 118 88 116 Cash-settled plans 4 3 16 15 Total 122 91 116 16 15 The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: Share Option Plans Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans and all charges have been incurred as the remaining awards all vested before 2018, althoughthere remain outstanding vested options under these plans, all of which are due to expire in 2019.
UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto plc are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
Performance Share Plans Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their Performance Share Awards PSA on vesting and therefore the awards are accounted forin accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions, including the dividends accumulated from date ofaward to vesting.
For the parts of awards with Total Shareholder Return TSR performance conditions, the fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
One-third of the awards granted from 2013 to 2017 inclusive are subject to an earnings margin performance target relative to ten global mining comparators.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at 5% per annum of outstanding awards 2017: 5% per annum.
Management Share Plans The Management Share Plans were introduced in 2007 and readopted in 2017 to provide Management Share Awards MSA to management.
Thevesting of these awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity, including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forawards granted since 2017 this adjustment is negligible and therefore the fair value of each award is equal to the share price on the day of grant.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at 7% per annum of outstanding awards 2017: 7% per annum.
com 211 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 43 Share-based payments continued Bonus Deferral Plans The Bonus Deferral Plans were introduced to award Bonus Deferral Awards BDA in connection with the mandatory deferral of 50% of the bonuses forexecutive directors and product group executives and 25% of the bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
For awards granted since 2017 this adjustment is negligible and therefore the fair value of each award is equal to the share price onthe day of grant.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at 3% per annum of outstanding awards 2017: 3% per annum.
Equity Incentive Plan In 2018, shareholders approved the introduction of the Rio Tinto 2018 Equity Incentive Plan the EIP.
From 2018, all long term incentive awards will be granted under this umbrella plan which allows for awards in the form of PSA, MSA and BDA to be granted.
For grants made from 2018, the earnings margin performance target applying to the PSA was removed and instead all of the awards are subject to the TSR performance conditions described above and in the Directors remuneration report.
Global Employee Share Plans The Global Employee Share Plans were introduced in 2012.
The companies provide a matching share award for each investment share purchased by a participant.
The vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions being met and the continued holding of investment shares by the participant until vesting.
These awards are settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The fair value of each matching share on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the date of purchase less a deduction of 15% for cancellations caused by employees electing to withdraw their investment shares before vesting of their matching shares.
Summary of options outstanding and exercisable A summary of the status of the companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2018 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted average average Aggregate exercise remaining intrinsic price per contractual value option life 2018 At 31 December 2018 Number A$ Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise price 16 25 23,659 17 0.22 1 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A$33 16,455 33 0.21 Total 40,114 1 As at 31 December 2017 there were 188,766 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$3 million.
The Management Share Plans, Performance Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Equity Incentive Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan together represent 100% 2017: 100% of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2018.
Performance Share Awards granted under either the Performance Share Plans or the Equity Incentive Plans Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Limited awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average fair average fair average fair average fair value at value at value at value at grant date grant date grant date grant date 2018 2018 2017 2017 2018 2018 2017 2017 number number number A$ number A$ Non-vested shares at 1 January 3,555,274 20.47 2,883,053 18.27 1,609,154 40.13 1,590,957 37.52 Awarded 801,047 26.87 1,198,677 24.64 387,298 53.85 529,776 45.84 Forfeited 188,761 21.45 199,435 16.28 36,530 43.83 36,716 36.59 Failed performance conditions 107,625 14.54 161,966 16.25 54,322 27.67 113,857 30.89 Vested 214,853 21.57 165,055 21.51 108,321 40.85 84,284 40.79 a Transfers from equity to cash-settled 276,722 40.11 Non-vested shares at 31 December 3,845,082 21.86 3,555,274 20.47 1,797,279 43.34 1,609,154 40.13 a In 2017, an agreement was reached between the Group and a former director to settle any of his future vested awards in cash rather than equity.
com Financial statements Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Limited awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average share price share price share price share price 2018 2018 2017 2017 2018 2018 2017 2017 number number number A$ number A$ Vested awards settled in shares during the year including dividend shares applied on vesting 248,965 42.57 188,383 31.04 105,374 82.97 73,311 63.09 Vested awards settled in cash during the year including dividend shares applied on vesting 991 42.40 9,959 82.08 5,010 62.81 In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 40,365 Rio Tinto plc and 276,722 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at31 December 2018 2017: 26,590 Rio Tinto plc and 276,722 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding.
The total liability for these awards at31December 2018 was US$11 million 2017: US$9 million.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 46,543 Rio Tinto plc and 83,092 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at31December 2018 2017: 33,443 Rio Tinto plc and 87,019 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding.
The total liability for these awards at31December 2018 was US$5 million 2017: US$6 million.
com 213 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 44 Post-retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post-retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution andsomeare defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Groups liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
Thisinturn will depend on the level of future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some formof inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, Germany and benefit pension provisions and towards defined contribution arrangements France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides benefits instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees are linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a foundation closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
For unionised employees, board which is responsible for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss some plans remain open.
Foundation board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by retirees.
The Group does not usually participate in multi-employer plans in which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans.
The Groups In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, disclosures are provided in this note.
typically paid in lump sum form.
Pension plans The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, The majority of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations are in which are included in the figures below.
Canada, the UK, the US and Switzerland.
Post-retirement healthcare plans In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide averagepay and the plans are generally closed to new entrants.
Benefits health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some forbargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are casesto their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover typically either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount isdependent upon certain age and service criteria.
New employees join arrangements which are defined aregenerally unfunded, and are included in the figures below.
contribution from the Groups perspective, with any required additional funding being provided byemployees.
The plans are subject to the Plan assets regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a diversified relevant provinces and territories predominantly Quebec.
Pension range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently, the funding level of Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plansoperate in a manner the pension plans is affected by movements in the level of equity markets that is compliant with the relevant regulations.
The Pension Committees and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group monitors its exposure generally have a number of members appointed bythesponsor and a to changes in interest rates and equity markets and also measures its number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases there is balance sheet pension risk using a value at risk approach.
These measures alsoanindependent Committee member.
are considered when deciding whether significant changes in investment strategy are required.
Asset-liability studies are conducted on a periodic The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final pay.
basis for the main pension plans to determine the optimal investment mix New employees are admitted to defined contribution sections.
The plans bearing in mind the Groups tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
sponsor companies and the views of the Pension Committees and trustee Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner boards who are legally responsible for the investments of the plans.
In that is compliant with UK regulations.
Thetrustee board governing the Canada, the UK and Switzerland, the Group works with the governing bodies main UK plans has a number of directors appointed by the sponsor, a to ensure that the investment policy adopted is consistent with the Groups number appointed by the plan participants andan independent trustee tolerance for risk.
In the US the Group has direct control over the director.
investment policy, subject to local investment regulations.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay.
Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flatmonetary amount per year of service.
Newemployees are admitted to defined contribution plans.
A Benefits Governance Committee is responsible forensuring that the plans are compliant with US regulations.
com Financial statements The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2018 2017 Equities 20.7% 32.4% Quoted 16.7% 28.6% Private 4.0% 3.8% Bonds 63.6% 53.2% Government fixed income 18.0% 14.3% Government inflation-linked 15.5% 13.1% Corporate and other publicly quoted 27.1% 23.5% Private 3.0% 2.3% Property 11.0% 11.2% Quoted property funds 5.1% 5.8% Unquoted property funds 5.9% 5.4% Qualifying insurance policies 0.1% 0.2% Cash and other 4.6% 3.0% Total 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans isUS$3 million 2017: US$13 million.
The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
These equityportfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic distribution and market sectors.
The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other quoted bondsare usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly in North America.
The property funds are invested in a diversified range of properties.
The holdings of cash and other are predominantly cash and short-term money market instruments.
Investments in private equity, private debt and property are less liquid than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its pension plans.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: 2018 2017 2016 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 20% 15% 19% 20% 21% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 11% 2% 11% 11% 12% Proportion relating to retirees 69% 83% 70% 69% 67% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average duration of obligations years 13.4 12.7 13.4 13.9 14.3 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: 2018 2017 2016 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 49% 39% 48% 49% 46% UK 30% 2% 28% 27% 27% US 11% 56% 14% 14% 16% Switzerland 5% 0% 5% 5% 5% Other 5% 3% 5% 5% 6% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 215 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 44 Post-retirement benefits continued Total expense recognised in the income statement 2018 2017 2016 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 156 9 165 155 158 Past service cost income 34 2 36 4 Curtailment gains 2 2 1 5 Settlement gains 5 5 1 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 44 35 79 79 90 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 15 15 17 22 Total defined benefit expense 242 46 288 245 265 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 242 2 244 255 257 Total expense recognised in the income statement 484 48 532 500 522 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
No amounts have been excluded from underlying earnings in2018, 2017 or 2016.
The past service cost in 2018 relates primarily to benefit amendments in the US and also includes US$9 million to reflect the current estimate of the cost ofequalising benefits in the Groups UK schemes, in line with the requirements of the court judgment on 26 October 2018 in the case involving Lloyds Banking Group and relating to Guaranteed Minimum Pensions.
The settlement gain in 2018 is the result of certain US obligations being transferred to anexternal insurance company.
The curtailments relate primarily to headcount reductions at various operations.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2018 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m Actuarial gains losses 1,382 855 1,120 Return on assets net of interest on assets 527 894 1,031 Gain loss on application of asset ceiling 52 33 1 Total gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 907 6 90 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2018 2017 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Total fair value of plan assets 13,203 13,203 15,257 Present value of obligations funded 13,482 13,482 16,199 Present value of obligations unfunded 401 871 1,272 1,446 Present value of obligations total 13,883 871 14,754 17,645 Effect of asset ceiling 111 Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 680 871 1,551 2,499 Comprising: Deficits 1,615 871 2,486 3,370 Surpluses 935 935 871 Net deficits on pension plans 680 680 1,501 Unfunded post-retirement healthcare obligation 871 871 998 The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as Trade and other receivables.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions including post-retirement benefits.
com Financial statements Funding policy and contributions to plans The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum levelrequired in each country.
In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland the minimum level is negotiated with the local trustee or foundation in accordance with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that the Group might obtain by accelerating contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
2018 2017 2016 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Contributions to defined benefit plans 204 44 248 404 464 Contributions to defined contribution plans 242 2 244 243 240 Contributions to industry-wide plans 12 17 Total 446 46 492 659 721 Contributions to defined benefit pension plans are kept under regular review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum funding requirements.
As contributions to many plans are reviewed on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2019 and subsequent years cannot be determined precisely in advance.
Most of the Groups largest pension funds are fully funded ontheir local funding basis and do not require long-term funding commitments at present.
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2019 are estimated to be around US$260 million but may be higher or lower than this depending on the evolution of financial markets and voluntary funding decisions taken by the Group.
Contributions for subsequent years are expected to be at similar levels to 2018.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments net of participant contributions.
The Groups contributions in 2019 are expected to besimilar to the amounts paid in 2018.
Movements in the net defined benefit liability A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed analysis ofthe movements in the present value of the obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100% of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly tothe amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
2018 2017 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit liability at the start of the year 1,501 998 2,499 2,542 Amounts recognised in Income statement 242 46 288 245 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income 812 95 907 6 Employer contributions 204 44 248 404 Arrangements divested 10 10 13 Currency exchange rate loss 57 34 91 135 Net defined benefit liability at the end of the year 680 871 1,551 2,499 2018 2017 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation Present value of obligation at the start of the year 16,647 998 17,645 16,228 Current employer service costs 156 9 165 155 Past service cost income 34 2 36 4 Curtailments 2 2 1 Settlements 299 299 307 Interest on obligation 468 35 503 532 Contributions by plan participants 24 24 23 Benefits paid 871 44 915 949 Experience gains 11 21 32 7 Changes in financial assumptions gain loss 1,276 73 1,349 718 Changes in demographic assumptions gain loss 1 1 144 Arrangements divested 94 94 13 Currency exchange rate gain loss 893 34 927 1,126 Present value of obligation at the end of the year 13,883 871 14,754 17,645 Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 217 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 44 Post-retirement benefits continued 2018 2017 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 15,257 15,257 13,749 Settlements 294 294 306 Interest on assets 434 434 459 Contributions by plan participants 24 24 23 Contributions by employer 204 44 248 404 Benefits paid 871 44 915 949 Non-investment expenses 15 15 17 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 527 527 894 Arrangements divested 161 161 Currency exchange rate loss gain 848 848 1,000 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,203 13,203 15,257 2018 2017 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the effect of the asset ceiling Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year 111 111 63 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 10 10 6 Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 52 52 33 Arrangements divested and other transfers 57 57 Currency exchange rate gain loss 12 12 9 Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 111 Most of the settlement amounts shown above relate to the US, where assets and obligations for some pensions in payment were transferred to an insurance company.
In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules specific to each pension plan.
The calculation takes into account any minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and whether a refund of surplus may be available.
In considering whether any refund of surplus is available the Group considers the powers of trustee boards and similar bodies to augment benefits or wind up a plan.
Where such powers are unilateral, the Group does not consider a refund to be available at the end of the life of a plan.
Where the plan rules and legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus, the asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a refund will only be available many years in the future.
Main assumptions rates per annum The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Canada UK US Switzerland At 31 December 2018 Discount rate 3.9% 2.8% 4.2% 0.7% a Inflation 1.6% 3.3% 2.0% 1.2% Rate of increase in pensions 0.2% 2.9% 0.0% 0.0% Rate of increase in salaries 2.9% 3.7% 3.5% 2.2% At 31 December 2017 Discount rate 3.4% 2.3% 3.5% 0.5% a Inflation 1.8% 3.2% 2.1% 1.2% Rate of increase in pensions 0.5% 2.8% 0.0% 0.4% Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% 3.6% 3.6% 2.2% a The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2018 was 2.2% 2017: 2.1%.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.2% 2017: 3.6% : medical trend rate: 7.6% reducing to 4.6% by the year 2029 broadly on a straight line basis 2017: 9.8%, reducing to 4.7% by the year 2026 : claims costs based on individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 27 years 2017: 27 years and that a man aged 60 in 2038 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 28 years 2017: 28 years.
com Financial statements Sensitivity The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity of the obligations to changes in assumptions, we calculate what the obligations would beif we were to make changes to each of the key assumptions in isolation.
The difference between this figure and the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of this sensitivity analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this approach is valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
The sensitivity toinflation includes the impact on pension increases, which are generally linked to inflation where they are granted.
2018 2017 Approximate Approximate increase decrease in obligations increase decrease in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate Increase of 0.5 percentage points 782 51 1,091 59 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 832 55 1,169 63 Inflation Increase of 0.5 percentage points 389 17 579 20 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 369 15 550 18 Salary increases Increase of 0.5 percentage points 46 1 74 1 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 45 1 72 1 Demographic allowance for future Participants assumed to have the mortality  rates of individuals who are one year older 381 18 509 20 Participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 381 18 509 20 45 New standards and interpretations adopted in the current year This note explains the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on the Groups financial statements.
The new accounting policies applied from 1 January 2018 are set out in note 1.
Prior period accounting policies are set out below.
The adoption of IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration and other minor changes to IFRS applicable for 2018 did not have asignificant impact on the Groups financial statements.
The impact on equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto as at 1 January 2018 of the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 is as follows: US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto as at 31 December 2017 44,711 IFRS 9 Impairment provision resulting from application of the Expected Credit Loss ECL model and revaluations 5 IFRS 15 fide-recognition of receivable arising from uplift transaction see page 222 164 Restated equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto as at 1 January 2018 44,542 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments on 1 January 2018, which resulted in changes in accounting policies and adjustments to the amounts recognised in the financial statements as at this date.
The standard replaced the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities: fide-recognition of financial instruments: impairment of financial assets: and hedge accounting.
The new accounting policies relating to financial instruments are set out in note 1.
The prior period accounting policy is set out below.
Prior period accounting policy: Financial instruments i Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity: and available-for-sale investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts, these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
Derivative assets, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade receivables are included within this category: however, the embedded derivatives for provisional pricing included within some trade receivables are valued as explained in the prior period accounting policy for sales revenue, see page 222.
com 219 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 45 New standards and interpretations adopted in the current year continued c Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the intentionand ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as loans and receivables.
Assets in this category are classified as Other investments andare classified as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity.
d Available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
Assets in this category are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date or the asset matures within 12 months.
Recognition and measurement Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Initial transaction costs are expensed in the income statement for those assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortisedcost using the effective interest method.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 30.
Movements on the hedging reserve are disclosedin note 29. ii Financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The Group participates in supply chain finance arrangements whereby vendors may elect to receive early payment of their invoice from a bank by factoringtheir receivable from Rio Tinto.
These arrangements do not modify the terms of the original liability and therefore, financial liabilities subject tosupply chain finance continue to be classified as trade payables.
Impact of transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as at 1 January 2018 For transition, the Group has elected to apply the limited exemption in IFRS 9 relating to the classification, measurement and impairment requirements for financial assets and accordingly has not restated comparative periods.
Any resulting adjustments to carrying values in the opening balance sheet have been recognised in opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
The Group has elected for retrospective application for certain aspects of hedge accounting in particular relating to the treatment of the cost of hedging.
The Group applies the new forward looking expected credit loss model required by IFRS 9, using the simplified approach for its trade receivables portfolio review and the general approach for all other financial assets as required by the standard.
The impact of transition to IFRS 9 on the Groups opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is as follows: US$m Closing retained earnings 31 December 2017 23,761 Costs of hedging adjustment 22 Reclassification of equity investments from available-for-sale to FVPL 12 Impairment provision resulting from the application of the ECL model 7 Tax impact 1 Revaluation of funds 1 Adjustment to retained earnings from adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 sub-total 15 Opening retained earnings 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 before restatement for IFRS 15 23,746 A Classification and measurement of financial assets On 1 January 2018, the Groups management assessed the classification of its financial assets on the basis of the contractual terms of their cash flows andthe business model by which they are managed.
Financial assets have been classified into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories below.
Refer to note 1 for the Groups revised financial asset classification andmeasurement policies.
com Financial statements Held at FVOCI Held at IFRS 9 classification at 1 January 2018 Held at FVPL designated amortised cost Loans and receivables, Held for  trading for-sale maturity IAS 39 classification at 1 January 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance IAS 39 15,288 1,482 136 13,670 a b Cash and cash equivalents Reclassification of money market funds from amortised cost to FVPL 7,813 7,813 b c Trade and other receivables Reclassification of trade and other receivables from amortised cost to FVPL 1,316 1,316 d Investments in equity shares and funds Reclassification of investments from available-for-sale to FVPL 90 90 Other investment including loans Reclassification of a financial asset from held-to-maturity to FVPL 6 6 Opening balance IFRS 9 excluding expected credit losses and revaluation of funds 15,288 10,707 46 4,535 Impairment provision resulting from the application of the ECL model 7 Revaluation of funds 1 Opening balance IFRS 9 including expected credit losses and revaluation of funds 15,282 The material reclassification adjustments related to: a M oney market funds of US$7.8 billion did not meet the strict solely principal and interest on principal SPPI criteria resulting in a reclassification from amortised cost to FVPL.
These instruments continue to meet the IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows criteria for classification as cash and cash equivalents and will continue to be included within net debt, as disclosed innote24.
b Due to the short-term nature of these financial assets the fair value of the reclassified assets does not differ significantly from their amortised cost.
c T rade receivables of US$1.3 billion with embedded derivatives relating to provisional pricing terms at the time control of goods passed did not meet the SPPI criteria: these balances areconsidered in their entirety for classification purposes under IFRS 9. d Investments not meeting the SPPI test have been reclassified to FVPL.
B Retained earnings and reserves Effect on AvailableCash flow Effect on for sale AfS Effect on FVOCI Costs of hedging hedge retained reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Closing balance 31 December 2017 20 32 23,761 e Reclassification of equity investments from AfS 20 8 12 f Impact of costs of hedging adjustment 26 4 22 g Impairment provisions 7 Tax impact 1 Re-measurement of funds 1 Total impact 20 8 26 4 15 Opening balance 1 January 2018 8 26 28 23,746 e The Group has elected to classify certain equity investments as fair value through OCI.
f The costs of hedging adjustment is explained in C below.
g The impairment provision is explained in D below.
C Derivatives and hedging activities The Groups risk management strategies and associated hedge documentation have been aligned with the requirements of IFRS 9 and existing hedging relationships under IAS 39 have been treated as continuing hedges.
Amendments to the hedge accounting rules under the new standard have allowed the Group to apply hedge accounting to the aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in the electricity purchase contracts of certain aluminium smelters thus reducing volatility in the income statement.
IFRS 9 allows for the deferral of certain costs of hedging including foreign currency basis spreads.
The Group has designated cross currency interest rate swaps as hedging instruments and excluded the foreign currency basis spreads from the hedge relationship.
Changes in the foreign currency basis spread are included in a cost of hedging reserve and will be subsequently recycled to profit or loss as the hedged item impacts on profit or loss.
The retrospective application for the treatment of foreign currency spreads has resulted in a transfer of US$22 million from retained earnings to the cost of hedging reserve and a transfer of US$4 million from the cash flow hedge reserve to the cost of hedging reserve.
com 221 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 45 New standards and interpretations adopted in the current year continued D Impairment of financial assets The Group implemented the new forward looking expected credit loss model which is required for certain financial instruments.
The simplified approach was used for the trade receivables portfolio and the general approach was applied to all other financial assets requiring review.
The transition impact of US$7 million on opening retained earnings is disclosed on page 220.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue.
The prior period IAS 18 accounting policy is set out below: Prior period accounting policy: Sales revenue Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties.
All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
If the Group isacting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are offset against the relevant costs.
Revenue from services is recognised as those services are rendered to, and accepted by, the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties payable are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are included in sales revenue.
Other operating income, incidental to the main revenue-generating activities of the operations, is treated as a credit to operating costs.
Third-party commodity swap arrangements principally for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining charges.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, hasbeenretained: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel onwhich it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
Certain of the Groups products are provisionally priced at the date revenue is recognised: however, with the exception of copper, prices are generally finalised within the calendar quarter of the month of shipment.
The final selling price is based on the price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
Substantially all iron ore and aluminium sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period.
Final prices for copper concentrate are normally determined between 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
The change in value of the embedded pricing derivative included in the receivable is based on relevant forward market prices and is included in sales revenue.
Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 30.
Impact of transition to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The impact of transition to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers as at 1 January 2018 is as follows: The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue related to the transfer of promised goods or services when control of the goods or services passes to the customer.
The amount of revenue recognised should reflect the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Group has adopted the modified transitional approach to implementation and the new standard has therefore been applied only to contracts that remain in force at 1 January 2018.
A US$164 million US$235 million pre-tax transition adjustment has been recognised in retained earnings on transition at 1 January 2018 without adjustment of comparatives.
The adjustment reduces trade and other receivables by US$235 million and deferred tax liabilities by US$71 million.
com Financial statements The transition adjustment related to an uplift arrangement with a partner in a joint operation whereby sales revenue was recognised under IAS 18 whenthe Group sold product from other operations to its partner to allow it to meet its contractual obligations when insufficient product was available inthe jointly owned operation.
The Group recognised an asset for product which will be receivable from the partner out of the partners share of future production of the joint operation.
Under IFRS 15, such transactions with partners in joint operations cannot be recognised as sales revenue.
The US$235 million receivable has accumulated over prior years.
The change in accounting has no impact on the commercial arrangement or current or future cash flows.
Under IFRS 15, sales revenue is recognised in the income statement when product is received from the partner and sold to a customer of the Group.
The impact for the year is a US$19 million decrease in sales revenue compared with the amount that would have been reflected under IAS 18.
The impact of all other measurement differences identified between IAS 18 and IFRS 15 was immaterial at 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018.
46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures As at 31 December 2018 2017 A$m A$m Assets Current assets 8,948 11,914 Non-current assets 6,962 7,954 Total assets 15,910 19,868 Liabilities Current liabilities 3,063 7,448 Non-current liabilities 330 35 Total liabilities 3,393 7,483 Net assets 12,517 12,385 Shareholders equity Share capital 3,504 3,893 Other reserves 362 420 Retained earnings 8,651 8,072 Total equity 12,517 12,385 Profit of the parent company 10,707 9,688 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 10,707 9,688 Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Limited guarantees Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled A$8.4 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: A$10.2 billion : in addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was A$10.6 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: A$9.6 billion.
Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed other external debt held by Rio Tinto Group entities which totalled A$0.1 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: A$0.1 billion and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of A$26 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: A$48 million.
In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of all obligations, including contingent obligations, of Rio Tinto Finance Limited, a wholly ownedsubsidiary.
Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
com 223 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, disclosed below is a full list of related undertakings of the Group.
Related undertakings include subsidiaries, associated undertakings, and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies.
The registered office address, country of incorporation, classes of shares and the effective percentage of equity owned by the Group calculated by reference to voting rights, is disclosed as at 31 December 2018.
The definition of a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 is different from the definition under IFRS.
As a result, the related undertakings included within this list may not be the same as the related undertakings consolidated in the Group IFRS financial statements.
Unless otherwise disclosed, all undertakings with an effective equity holding of greater than 50% are considered subsidiary undertakings for the purpose of thisnote.
Refer to notes 33-36 for further information on accounting policies, basis of consolidation, principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures andassociates.
An explanation of the dual listed companies structure of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited can be found on pages 292 to 293.
For completeness, theeffective ownership by the Group relates to effective holdings by both entities either together or individually.
Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address 10029734 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD$1.00 100 Common shares 400-1190 Avenue des , 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD$1.00 100 Preferred shares 1043802 Ontario Ltd. : Canada CAD 66 Wellington Street West, Suite 4700, Toronto Dominion Bank 100 100 Ordinary shares Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada 10676276 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 10676284 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 11091905 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD$1.00 100 Common shares 400-1190 Avenue des , 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD$1.00 100 Preferred shares 1109723 B. C. Ltd. : Canada CAD 1800-510 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC V6B 0M3, 100 100 Common shares Canada 46106 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada Common shares 46117 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 Common shares 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada CAD 100 100 Preferred shares 535630 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 Common shares c o Macdonald & Company, 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada CAD 100 100 Preferred shares 7999674 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 9230556 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD 100 Common shares 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD 100 Preferred shares 9539549 CANADA INC. : Canada US$ 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan Alumina Ltda.
: Brazil BRL1.00 Avenida Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira, 1km 18, 100 100 Quota shares Pedrinhas, So Luis, MA, 65095-603, Brazil Alcan Asia Limited: Hong Kong HKD Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, 100 100 Ordinary shares Admiralty, Hong Kong Alcan Betriebsund  51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany GmbH: Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Chemicals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Alcan Composites Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL0.01 Avenida das Naes Unidas, 10.989, 14th floor, Suite 141, So 100 100 Ordinary shares Paulo, 04578-900, Brazil Alcan Corporation: United States US$0.01 CSC, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218, 100 100 Ordinary shares United States 224 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Alcan Farms Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Alcan Finances USA LLC: United States US$1,000.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Alcan Gove Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Gove Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Class B shares Alcan Gove Superannuation Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Holdings Australia Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Australia Class A shares 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 100 Ordinary shares Alcan Holdings Europe B. V. : Netherlands 455.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Alcan Holdings Nederland B. V. : Netherlands 4,555.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG SA Ltd. : CHF0.01 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Switzerland Registered shares Alcan International Network U. S. A. Inc. : US$ 100 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, United States United States Ordinary shares Alcan  GmbH: 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Management Services Shanghai Co. Ltd. : US$1.00 Unit E, 40F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Nanjing Road, 100 100 China Ordinary shares Jingan District, Shanghai, 200040, China Alcan Management Services Canada Limited: CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Canada Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan Northern Territory Alumina Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Packaging Canada Limited: Canada CAD McCarthy Tetrault LLP, c o Joanne Pierucci, Suite 5300 100 100 Ordinary shares Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Alcan Packaging Mhltal GmbH & Co. KG: Germany 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Primary Metal Australia Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Primary Products Company LLC: US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 UnitedStates Shares States Alcan Primary Products Corporation: US$0.01 CSC, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218, 100 100 United States Ordinary shares United States Alcan Realty Limited: Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan South Pacific Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Trading AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1000.00 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Registered shares Aluminium Pechiney: France 16.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Ordinary shares Aluminium Company of Canada Limited: Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada AML Properties Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom United Kingdom Ordinary shares AP Service: France 15.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Ordinary shares Argyle Diamond Mines Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia d Argyle Diamonds 2013 Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 225 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address a Argyle Diamonds Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 6000, Australia AUD 100 Class B shares Ashton Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Ashton Nominees Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia a Australian Coal Holdings Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares a Australian Mining & Smelting Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Beasley River Management Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Beasley River Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Borax Espaa, S. A. : Spain 150.00 100 100 CN 340, Km 954, 12520 NULES, Castelln, Spain Ordinary shares Borax Europe Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Borax Francais: France 2.75 100 100 89 Route fide Bourbourg, 59210, Coudekerque-Branche, France Ordinary shares Borax Malaysia Sdn Bhd: Malaysia MYR1.00 Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Ordinary shares 100 100 Damansara, Damansara Heights 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Borax Rotterdam N. V. : Netherlands 453.78 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, 100 100 Ordinary shares Netherlands British Alcan Aluminium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares a Canning Resources Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Capricorn Diamonds Investments Pty Limited: AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Cathjoh Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Champlain Reinsurance Company Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1.23 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Registered shares Channar Management Services Pty Limited: AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Channar Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia CIA.
Inmobiliaria e Inversiones Cosmos S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 Calle Santa Maria No.
Miraflores Miraflores-Lima, 100 100 Ordinary shares Peru Compagnie Gnrale Dlectrolyse Du Palais: 0.94 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France France Ordinary shares Compania fide Transmision Sierraoriente S. A. C. : Peru PEN1,000.00 Calle Santa Maria No.
Miraflores Miraflores-Lima, 100 100 Ordinary shares Peru CRA Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Apartment No.
100 a 5 Ground Floor, The Capital Court, Olof 100 100 Ordinary shares Palmer Marg, Munirka New Delhi 110067, India a CRA Investments Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares a CRA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Daybreak Development LLC: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States c Daybreak Property Holdings LLC: United States CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 100 84101, United States Daybreak Secondary Water Distribution Company: US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 United States Common shares States 226 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Daybreak Water Holding LLC: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States DB Medical I LLC: United States US$ CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 100 100 Shares 84101, United States c DBVC1 LLC: United States CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 100 84101, United States Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. : Canada CAD 300-5201 50th Avenue, P. O.
Box 2498, Yellowknife NT X1A 100 100 Common shares 2P8, Canada a East Kalimantan Coal Pte.
Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 Tower 3, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Eastland Management Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States a Electric Power Generation Limited: New Zealand NZD1.00 100 100 1530 Tiwai Road, Tiwai Point, Invercargill 9877, New Zealand Ordinary shares Empresa fide Minerao Finesa Ltda.
: Brazil BRL SIG, QUADRA 04, Lote 75, Sala 109 Parte C, Edifcio Capital 100 100 Quotas shares Financial Center, Brasilia DF, CEP 71.610-440, Brazil a Falcon Insurance Ltd: Malta US$1.00 Class A Ordinary 100 Vision Exchange Building, Territorials Street, Mriehel, BKR shares 100 3000, Malta US$1.00 100 Class B shares Flambeau Mining Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States a Fundsprops Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Gladstone Infrastructure Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class G Redeemable 100 Preference shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Gove Aluminium Ltd: Australia AUD A Nonredeemable 100 Preference shares AUD A Redeemable 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 100 Preference shares AUD 100 Ordinary shares GPS Energy Pty Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia GPS Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia GPS Power Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Hamersley Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Hamersley HMS Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia a Hamersley Holdings Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia a Hamersley Iron Yandi Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class B shares AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Class C shares 6000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Hamersley Iron Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Hamersley Resources Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 6000, Australia AUD Z Class 100 Ordinary shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 227 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Hamersley WA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Henlopen Manufacturing Co. Inc. : United States US$100.00 100 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, United States Ordinary shares High Purity Iron Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States a HIsmelt Corporation Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Class A shares 6000, Australia Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 A Class shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 B Class shares IEA Coal Research Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 Apsley House, Third Floor, 176 Upper Richmond Road, London, 100 100 Ordinary shares SW15 2SH, United Kingdom IEA Environmental Projects Limited: 1.00 IEAGHG, Pure Offices Cheltenham Office Park, Hatherley 100 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares Lane, Cheltenham, GL51 6SH, United Kingdom Industrias Metalicas Castello S. A. : Spain 6.01 100 100 Calle Tuset 10, 08006, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain Ordinary shares Integrity Land and Cattle LLC: United States US$ CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021, 100 100 Shares United States IOC Sales Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares d Itallumina Srl: Italy 1.00 100 100 Viale Castro Pretorio 122, 00185, Roma, Italy Quotas shares Johcath Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Juna Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Kalimantan Gold Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares a Kalteng Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD A Class 100 Ordinary shares AUD1.00 Class B fully paid $1.00 100 13 01 2003 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD1.00 Class B paid to $0.12 100 02 09 2005 AUD 100 Ordinary shares a Kelian Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Kembla Coal & Coke Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Kennecott Barneys Canyon Mining Company: US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 United States Common shares States Kennecott Exploration Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Exploration Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1,000.00 Felix Berenguer 125 4 Col. Lomas Virreyes, Distrito 100 100 Ordinary shares Federal, 11000, Mexico Kennecott Holdings Corporation: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Land Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Land Investment Company LLC: CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 c United States States Kennecott Molybdenum Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Nevada Copper Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Ridgeway Mining Company: US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 United States Common shares States 228 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Kennecott Royalty Company: United States US$100.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Services Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Uranium Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Kennecott Utah Copper LLC: United States US$ CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 100 100 Shares 84101, United States Kennecott Water Distribution LLC: United States US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States a Kutaibar Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Lawson Mardon Flexible Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Lawson Mardon Smith Brothers Ltd. : 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom United Kingdom Ordinary shares Metallwerke Refonda AG: Switzerland CHF125.00 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Bearer shares Metals & Minerals Insurance Pte.
Limited: SGD Redeemable 100 Singapore Preference shares 100 2 Shenton Way, #2601, SGX Centre 1, 068804, Singapore SGD 100 Ordinary shares Minerao Tabuleiro Ltda: Brazil BRL SIG, QUADRA 04, Lote 75, Sala 109 Parte D, Edifcio Capital 100 100 Quotas shares Financial Center, Brasilia DF, CEP 71.610-440, Brazil Minera Kennecott, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1.00 Florencia 57, Piso 3, Col. Juarez, Delegacin Cuauhtemoc, 100 100 Series B shares Mexico, D. F. 06600, Mexico Mitchell Plateau Bauxite Co. Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Mount Pleasant Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Mutamba Mineral Sands S. A. : Mozambique MZN100.00 Avenida 24 fide Julho, No.
3412, Bairro da Polana Cimento, 100 100 Ordinary shares Maputo City, Mozambique NBH Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia c Nhulunbuy Corporation Limited: Australia 100 19 Westal Street, Nhulunbuy NT 0880, Australia Norgold Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, 100 Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD Redeemable 100 Preference shares North Gold W. A. Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, 100 Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD Redeemable 100 Preference shares North Insurances Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares North IOC Bermuda Holdings Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 100 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda Ordinary shares North IOC Bermuda Limited: Bermuda US$143.64 Class A 100 Ordinary shares US$100,000.00 100 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda Preferred shares US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares North IOC Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia North Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia North Mining Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 6000, Australia AUD Redeemable 100 Preference shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 229 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Pacific Aluminium New Zealand Limited: NZD1.00 100 100 1530 Tiwai Road, Tiwai Point, Invercargill 9872, New Zealand NewZealand Ordinary shares Pacific Aluminium Bell Bay Sales Pty Limited: AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares Australia a Pacific Aluminium Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Pacific Aluminium Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Pacific Coast Mines, Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Pechiney Aviatube Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Pechiney Btiment: France 15.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, France Ordinary shares Pechiney Bcancour, Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Pechiney Cast Plate, Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Pechiney Consolidated Australia Pty Limited: US$1.00 100 Australia Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia US$1.00 100 Preference shares Pechiney Holdings, Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States c Pechiney Metals LLC: United States CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 States Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc. : United States US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Pechiney Sales Corporation: United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Peko Exploration Pty Ltd. : Australia AUD 100 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia Ordinary shares Peko-Wallsend Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Port dEhoala S. A. : Madagascar US$100.00 Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, 5me tage, 101 100 100 Ordinary shares Antananarivo, Madagascar a Project Generation Group Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares PSZ Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia d PT Alcan Packaging Flexipack: Indonesia IDR1,000,000.00 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung 100 100 Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia d PT Rio Tinto Consultants: Indonesia US$1.00 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung 100 100 Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia QIT Madagascar Minerals Ltd: Bermuda US$1.00 100 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Ordinay shares Queensland Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Qumica e Metalrgica Mequital Ltda.
das Nacoes Unida, 12551 19o, andar, CJ 1911, 04578-000, 100 100 Ordinary shares So Paulo, SP, Brazil Ranges Management Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Ranges Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Resolution Copper Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States 230 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Richards Bay Mining Holdings Proprietary Limited: ZAR1.00 A 100 South Africa Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR1.00 B 100 Ordinary shares Richards Bay Titanium Holdings Proprietary ZAR1.00 A 100 Limited: South Africa Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR1.00 B 100 Ordinary shares Rio fide Contas Desenvolvimentos Minerais Ltda: BRL Rua Coronel Durval Matos, S N. Centro, Municipio fide 100 100 Brazil Quota shares Jaguaquara, Estado da Bahia, CEP45345-000, Brazil Rio Santa Rita Empreenimentos e-Participaes BRL SIG, QUADRA 04, Lote 75, Sala 109 Parte E, Edifcio Capital 100 100 Ltda: Brazil Quota shares Financial Center, Brasilia DF, CEP 71.610-440, Brazil c Rio Sava Exploration DOO: Serbia 100 Resavska 23, 11000 Beograd, 11000, Serbia a Rio Tinto Commercial Paper Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Hong Kong Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, 100 100 Ordinary shares Admiralty, Hong Kong Rio Tinto Advisory Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Alcan Fund Inc. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltd. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Middle East DMCC: AED1,000.00 Gold Tower, Jlt Cluster I, 8th Floor, Unit E, Dubai, P. O.
Box 100 100 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 340801, United Arab Emirates Rio Tinto Alcan Technology Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Aluminium Bell Bay Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Aluminium Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto America Holdings Inc. : United States US$0.01 Class A 100 Common shares CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 States US$100.00 Series A 100 Preferred stock Rio Tinto America Inc. : United States US$100.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Rio Tinto Asia Ltd: Hong Kong HKD Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, 100 100 Ordinary shares Admiralty, Hong Kong a Rio Tinto Asia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto AuM Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Bahia Holdings Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares a Rio Tinto Base Metals Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Brazilian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 231 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Brazilian Investments Limited: 1.00 100 UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Operation CAD 300-5201 50th Avenue, P. O.
Box 2498, Yellowknife NT X1A 100 100 Management Inc. : Canada Common shares 2P8, Canada Rio Tinto Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral CAD Class D shares 100 100 Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD Class J shares 100 CAD Class K shares 100 Rio Tinto Canada Management Inc. : Canada CAD 100 Common shares 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD 100 Preferred shares Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation: Canada CAD 100 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1S4, Canada Common shares Rio Tinto Coal Clermont Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Coal Investments Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares a Rio Tinto Coal NSW Holdings Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Commercial Pte.
Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 100 Ordinary shares Tower 3, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Desenvolvimentos Minerais Ltda.
: Brazil BRL SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a 109, Edifcio 100 100 Quotas shares Capital Financial Center, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holding CAD Class A Inc. : Canada dividend rights 100 shares CAD Class B shares 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, P. O.
Box 2498, Yellowknife NT X1A 100 2P8, Canada CAD Class C voting 100 rights shares CAD Class P1 100 Preferred shares Rio Tinto Diamonds Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Diamonds Netherlands B. V. : Netherlands 500.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Diamonds NV: Belgium 100 100 Hoveniersstraat 53, 2018 Antwerp, Belgium Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Eastern Investments B. V. : Netherlands 12,510,234,217.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. : United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Rio Tinto Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Escondida Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 100 100 22 Canons Court, Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Ordinary shares Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom b United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Exploration Asia Holdings Pte.
Ltd. : US$1.00 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 100 Singapore Ordinary shares Tower 3, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Exploration PNG Limited: Papua PGK1.00 c o BDO Accountants, Section 15, Lot 15, Bernal Street, 100 100 a NewGuinea Ordinary shares National Capital District, Papua New Guinea Rio Tinto Exploration and Mining India Private INR10.00 21st Floor, DLF Building No.
5, Tower A, DLF Cyber City, Phase 100 100 Limited: India Ordinary shares III, Gurgaon, Haryana, 122002, India 232 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Exploration Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Class A shares 100 CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C shares 100 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1S4, Canada CAD Class D shares 100 CAD Class E 100 Preferred shares Rio Tinto Exploration Dunav d. o. o. Beograd-Vracar: 100 Resavska 23, 11000 Beograd, 11000, Serbia c Serbia d Rio Tinto Exploration Gabon SA: Gabon XAF10,000.00 C O NEW ACE Baker Tilly, Quartier Louis Quaben, Libreville, 100 100 Ordinary shares B. P:3981, Gabon Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited: India INR10.00 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital Court, Olof 100 100 Ordinary shares Palme Marg, Munirka, New Delhi 110067, India c Rio Tinto Exploration Kazakhstan LLP: Kazakhstan 100 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan a Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 AUD Class C shares 100 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Exploration Zambia Limited: Zambia ZMW1.00 100 100 Plot 3827, Parliament Road, Olympia, Lusaka, Zambia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto FalCon Diamonds Inc. : Canada CAD1,000.00 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Common shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. : Canada CAD Class B 100 Preference shares CAD 100 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R 1M6, Canada Common shares CAD$0.01 100 Preferred shares a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Finance USA plc: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares a Rio Tinto Finance Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Finance plc: United Kingdom 1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto France S. A. S. : France 15.25 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Global Employment Company Pte.
Ltd. : US$1.00 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 100 Singapore Ordinary shares Tower 3, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Guine S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 Manqupas-Commune fide Kaloum, Rpublique fide Guine, 100 100 Ordinary shares Guinea Rio Tinto Holdings LLC: Mongolia MNT20,000.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 100 Ordinary shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241, Mongolia Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy Australia Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia a Australia Ordinary shares c Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy LLC: United States CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 States Rio Tinto Iceland Ltd. : Iceland ISK1.00 100 100 P. O.
Box 244, IS-222, Hafnarfjrdur, Iceland Registered shares Rio Tinto India Private Limited: India INR10.00 21st Floor, DLF Building No.
5, Tower A, DLF Cyber City, 100 100 Ordinary shares PhaseIII, Gurgaon, Haryana, 122022, India Rio Tinto Indonesian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom b UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Investments One Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 233 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Investments Two Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Suzhou Co. Ltd: China US$1.00 418 Nanshi Street, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215021, 100 100 Ordinary shares China c Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium GmbH: Germany Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, Frankfurt 100 amMain, Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Holdings GmbH: Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, Frankfurt 100 c Germany amMain, Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R 1M6, Canada Common shares Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Iron Ore Europe S. A. S. : France 100.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Iron Ore Trading China Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Japan Ltd: Japan JPY500.00 8th Floor, Kojimachi Diamond Building, 1 Kojimachi 100 100 Ordinary shares 4-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Limited: Jersey US$ 100 100 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Korea Ltd: Republic of Korea KRW10,000.00 2nd Floor, JS Tower, 6 Teheran-ro 79-gil, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, 100 100 Ordinary shares 135-877, Republic of Korea Rio Tinto London Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Management Services South Africa ZAR2.00 100 100 1 Harries Road, Illovo, Sandton, 2196, South Africa Proprietary Ltd: South Africa Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Marketing Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 Tower 3, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Marketing Services Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Medical Plan Trustees Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Metals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minera Peru Limitada SAC: Peru PEN100.00 100 100 Av.
La Paz 1049, Oficina 503, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minerao do Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL1.00 SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a 109, Quotas shares 100 100 EdifcioCapital Financial Center, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Minerals Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 Tower 3, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minerals Development Limited: 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minerals Exploration Beijing Co. Ltd: US$1.00 Units 15-16, 18 F, China World Office Building 2, No.
1 100 100 China Ordinary shares Jianguomenwai Dajie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China Rio Tinto Minerals Inc. : United States US$0.01 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 100 100 Common shares 84101, United States Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited: 1.00 100 UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 234 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration S. A. C. : Peru PEN0.50 100 100 Av, La Paz 1049, Oficina 503, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Mongolia LLC: Mongolia MNT1,240.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 100 Common shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241, Mongolia Rio Tinto Namibian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Nickel Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Rio Tinto Nominees Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto OT Management Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Overseas Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares a Rio Tinto PACE Australia Pty Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto PACE Canada Inc. : Canada CAD 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 100 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Pension Investments Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom b United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Peru Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Potash Management Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1S4, Canada Common shares Rio Tinto Procurement Singapore Pte Ltd: US$1.00 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 100 Singapore Ordinary shares Tower 3, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 Tower 3, 018982, Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Preference shares Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Management Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1S4, Canada Common shares Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings General CAD McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower 66 100 100 Partner Inc. : Canada Common shares Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings Limited McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower 66 100 c Partnership: Canada Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Secretariat Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Services Inc. : United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States a Rio Tinto Services Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class Z shares 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Shared Services Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Shipping Asia Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 100 Ordinary shares Tower 3, 018982, Singapore a Rio Tinto Shipping Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Simfer UK Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 100 US$ Tower 3, 018982, Singapore 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto South East Asia Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Staff Fund Retired Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia a Australia Ordinary shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 235 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Sulawesi Holdings Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Technological Resources Inc. : US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 UnitedStates Common shares States Rio Tinto Technological Resources UK Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. : China US$1.00 41 F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Nanjing Road, 100 100 Ordinary shares JinganDistrict, Shanghai, 200040, China Rio Tinto Uranium Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Western Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 UnitedKingdom Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Riversdale Connections Proprietary Ltd: ZAR1.00 Ground Floor Cypress Place North, Woodmead Business South Africa Ordinary shares 100 100 Park140 142 Western Service Road, Woodmead, 2191, SouthAfrica Robe River Limited: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Rocklea Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 100 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia RTA AAL Australia Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Boyne Limited: Australia AUD Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 100 Ordinary shares Australia RTA Holdco 1 Limited: United Kingdom US$0.0001 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinaryshares RTA Holdco 4 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$0.73 100 Ordinary shares RTA Holdco 7 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A 100 Preference shares RTA Holdco 8 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom US$0.001 Class A 100 Preference shares RTA Holdco Australia 1 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 3 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 5 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 6 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco France 2017 S. A. S. : France 10.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Ordinary shares RTA Pacific Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Class B shares RTA Smelter Development Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Weipa Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Yarwun Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares 236 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address RTAlcan 1 LLC: United States US$ 100 Common shares CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 US$ States Class A 100 Preferred shares RTAlcan 2 LLC: United States US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States RTAlcan 3 LLC: United States US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States a RTLDS Aus Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares RTLDS UK Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares RTPDS Aus Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Savoie Services Y. K. : Japan JPY50,000.00 Harumi, 3 Nagahama-cho, Ozu-city, Ehime-ken, 799-3412, 100 100 Ordinary shares Japan Scheuch Unterstuetzungskasse GmbH: Germany 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Ordinary shares Skeleton Coast Diamonds Limited: Namibia NAD2.00 100 100 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek, Namibia Ordinary shares Skymont Corporation: United States US$ CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Socit fide Financement Des Risques Industriels: 100 100 534, rue fide Neudorf, B. P. 593, L-2015, Luxembourg Luxembourg Ordinary shares Socit Dentreprises, Carrires Et Mines fide 9.33 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France LEsterel: France Ordinary shares Socit Gnrale fide Recherches et dexploitations 0.02 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Dfense 2, 92400, Courbevoie, France Minires: France Ordinary shares Sohio Western Mining Company: United States US$100.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Southern Copper Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 A shares AUD 100 B shares AUD 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Non-cumulative 100 Redeemable Preference shares AUD 100 Ordinary shares c Swift Current Land & Cattle LLC: United States CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021, 100 United States Swiss Aluminium Australia Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares AUD 100 Stock Unit A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Stock Unit B shares AUD 100 Stock Unit C shares TBAC Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares a Technological Resources Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 A Ordinary shares 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia AUD 100 B Ordinary shares The Barrier Corporation Vic.
Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia a Australia Ordinary shares The Kelian Community and Forest Protection Trust: 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, 049315, 100 c Singapore Singapore The Pyrites Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 237 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address The Roberval and Saguenay Railway Company: CAD$100.00 100 Canada Ordinary shares 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 CAD$100.00 Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Preference shares 100 6% non-cumulative The Zinc Corporation Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares AUD 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Z Class 100 Ordinary shares Thos.
W. Ward Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Three Crowns Insurance Company Limited: 1.00 100 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Bermuda Common shares Tinto Holdings Australia Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 A shares 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Trans Territory Pipeline Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares U. S. Borax Inc. : United States US$0.10 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States Union Gnrale Industrielle Africaine: Morocco MAD100.00 42 Boulevard fide la Rsistance, Palais Mirabeau, 3me tage-, 100 100 Ordinary shares appartement 86, Casablanca, Morocco a Victoria Technology Inc. : United States US$1.00 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Ordinary shares States Waste Solutions and Recycling LLC: United States US$ shares CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 States c West Kutai Foundation Limited: Singapore 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, 049315, 100 Singapore Wimmera Industrial Minerals Pty.
Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 7, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia a Australia Ordinary shares Winchester South Development Company AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Proprietary Limited: Australia Ordinary shares Wyoming Coal Resources Company: United States US$0.01 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 100 100 Common shares States 238 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakingsother  continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address c 201 Logistics Center, LLC: United States Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington fide 50 19801, United States AGM Holding Company Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares Alufluor AB: Sweden SEK1,000.00 50 50 Industrigatan 70, Box 902, S-25109, Helsingborg, Sweden Ordinary shares Aluminerie Alouette Inc. : Canada CAD 400, Chemin fide la Pointe-Noire, C. P. 1650, Sept-les 40 40 Ordinary shares Qubec G4R 5M9, Canada Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. : Canada CAD1.00 5555 Pierre Thibault Street, PO 30, Becancour, Qubec 50.1 25.2 Ordinary shares G9H 2T7, Canada Aluminium & Chemie Rotterdam B. V. : Netherlands 4,555.00 65.8 65.8 Oude Maasweg 80, 3197 KJ, Botlek, Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Asia Gold Mongolia LLC: Mongolia MNT1,250.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 50.7 Common shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241 Mongolia Asia Naran Bulag LLC: Mongolia MNT1,000.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 50.7 Common shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241 Mongolia c Balkhash Saryshagan LLP: Kazakhstan 75 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan Beasley River Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 53 Aclass shares 6000, Australia Bektau B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 75 75 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Boyne Smelters Limited: Australia AUD A1 100 Class shares AUD A2 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, 100 59.4 Class shares Australia AUD B1 100 Class shares c CanPacific Potash Inc. : Canada c o McKercher LLP, 374 Third Avenue South, Saskatoon SK 32 S7K 1M5, Canada Carol Lake Company Ltd. : Canada CAD$100.00 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 58.7 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada d Chinalco Rio Tinto Exploration Co. Ltd: China CNY1.00 Capital Unit 402, China Resources Building, No.
8 Jianguomenbei Contribution 49 49 Avenue, Dong Cheng District, Beijing, 100005 P. R. China Ordinary shares Chlor Alkali Unit Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary 100 SGD shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre 68.4 US$1.00 Ordinary Tower 3, 018982, Singapore 68.4 USD shares Dampier Salt Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary 68.4 $1.00257 shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 68.4 AUD Ordinary 6000, Australia $1.88 on 68.4 31 01 2013 shares Elysis Limited Partnership Elysis Socit en US$1,000.00 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 48.2 Commandite: Canada Class B shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Enarotali Gold Project Limited: Jersey 0.001 25 25 13 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey Ordinary shares Energy Resources of Australia Ltd: Australia AUD A Class c o Mallesons Stephen Jacques, 60 Marcus Clarke Street, 68.4 68.4 Ordinary shares Canberra ACT, Australia Fabrica fide Plasticos Mycsa, S. A. : Bolivarian VEF1.00 Urbanizacin Industrial San Ignacio, parcela 2-A, va 49 49 d Republic of Venezuela Common shares San Pedro, Los Teques, Estado Miranda, Venezuela Global Hubco B. V. : Netherlands 1.00 c o TMF Netherlands B. V. Luna Arena, Herikerbergweg 238, 33.3 33.3 Ordinary shares 1101, CM Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands Gulf Power Company: Canada CAD$100.00 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 58.7 Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Halco Mining Inc. : United States US$100.00 The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. 2711 Centerville 45 45 Ordinary shares Road, Suite 400, Willmington fide 19808, United States Heruga Exploration LLC: Mongolia MNT12,500.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 50.8 Common Shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241 Mongolia Hope Downs Marketing Company Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 100 50 A Class shares 6000, Australia IAL Holdings Singapore Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 239 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakingsother  continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Iron Ore Company of Canada: United States US$1,000.00 91.4 Series A shares US$1,000.00 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United 100 58.7 Series E shares States US$1,000.00 100 Series F shares c Korgantas LLP: Kazakhstan 75 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan Lao Sanxai Minerals Company Limited: US$1.00 5th Floor, ANZ Bank Building, 33 Lane Xang Avenue, Hatsady Lao Peoples Democratic Republic Ordinary shares 70 70 Village, Chanthaboury District, Vientiane Capital, Lao Peoples Democratic Republic Magma Arizona Railroad Company: United States US$100.00 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ 85021, 99.9 54.9 Common shares United States c Minera Escondida Ltda: Chile 30 Av.
Cerro Plomo, Piso 18, Las Condes, Santiago, 7580154, Chile Movele: Luxembourg US$ 100 Ordinary shares 50.8 22 rue Jean-Pierre Brasseur, L-1258, Luxembourg US$ 100 Preferred shares New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd: New Zealand NZD1.00 Class A 100 79.4 1530 Tiwai Road, Tiwai Point Invercargill, 9877 New Zealand Ordinary shares Northern Land Company Ltd: Canada CAD$1.00 100 58.7 2 Avalon Drive, Labrador City NL A2V 2V6, Canada Ordinary shares Nozalela Mineral Sands Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 100 74 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Ordinary shares NZAS Retirement Fund Trustee Limited: NZD Mercer NZ Limited, Level 8, 113-119 The Terrace, Wellington, 100 79.4 New Zealand Ordinary shares 6140, New Zealand f Oyu Tolgoi LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Level 12 Monnis Tower, Chinggis Avenue-15, 1st khoroo, 66 33.5 Common shares Sukhbaatar District, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Oyu Tolgoi Netherlands B. V. : Netherlands 100.00 100 50.8 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Pechiney Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP10.00 Room 306, ITC Building, 337 Sen Gil Puyat Avenue, Makati, 99.9 99.9 Ordinary shares Metro Manila, Philippines Pechiney Reynolds Quebec, Inc. : United States US$10.00 50 Common shares CSC, 233 South 13th Street, Suite 1900, Lincoln NE 68508, 50.2 United States US$100.00 100 Preferred shares Procivis Savoie: France 19.00 22.1 22.1 116 Quai Charles Roissard, 73000, Chambry, France Ordinary shares PT Hutan Lindung Kelian Lestari: Indonesia IDR9,803.00 99 99 Kelian Mine Site, West Kutai, East Kalimantan, Indonesia Ordinary shares PT Kelian Equatorial Mining: Indonesia IDR1,080.00 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung 90 90 Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia QIT Madagascar Minerals SA: Madagascar US$10.00 Certicats 100 dinvestissemant Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, 5me tage, 101 80 Antananarivo, Madagascar US$10.00 80 Common shares Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway CAD$27.59 400-1190 Avenue des , Montral 100 58.7 Company: Canada Ordinary shares Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Queensland Alumina Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Plant Operations Building, Parsons Point, Gladstone AUD Class C shares 100 80 QLD4680, Australia AUD Class D shares 100 c Resolution Copper Mining LLC: United States CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United 55 States Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited: ZAR0.01 B 100 South Africa Ordinary shares ZAR0.01 B 100 Preference shares 73.9 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR 0.01 BHP Billiton 100 Preference shares Richards Bay Prefco Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR0.01 100 99.9 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Preference shares 240 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakingsother  continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited: ZAR0.01 B 100 South Africa Preference shares ZAR0.01 BHP Billiton 100 73.9 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Preference shares ZAR0.01 B 100 Ordinary shares Rightship Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 33.3 33.3 Level 20, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Orissa Mining Private Ltd: India INR100.00 N-3 356, IRC Village, Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar, Orissa, 751015, 51 51 Ordinary shares India Rio Tinto Sohar Logistics LLC: Oman OMR1.00 70 70 P. O.
Box 686, Ruwi, 112, Oman Ordinary shares Riversdale Anthracite Colliery Proprietary Ltd: ZAR2.00 74 74 1 Harries Road, Illovo, Sandton, 2196, South Africa South Africa Ordinary shares Robe River Mining Co. Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD 40 A shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 73.6 6000, Australia AUD 76.4 B shares Robe River Ore Sales Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 65 57.1 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia f Rssing Uranium Limited: Namibia NAD1.00 B 71.2 shares 35.6 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek, Namibia NAD0.1 C 70.6 shares Saryarka B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 75 75 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares SGLS LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Level 17, Shangri-La Centre, Olympic Street 19A, Sukhbaatar 100 50.8 Common shares District, Ulaanbaatar, 14241 Mongolia Sharp Strategic Funding Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$1.00 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares Simfer Jersey Finance 1 Ltd: Jersey US$ 100 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ordinary shares Simfer Jersey Finance 2 Ltd: Jersey US$ 53 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ordinary shares Simfer Jersey Limited: Jersey US$ 53 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ordinary shares Simfer Jersey Nominee Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 53 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares f SIMFER S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 Rsidence Dolphine1-Coleah Corniche Sud, Commune fide 85 45 Ordinary shares Matam, Conakry, BP 848, Guinea Singapore Metals Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares Socit Minire Et fide Participations Guine- 50 Tougue, Guinea c Alusuisse: Guinea Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. : Oman OMR1.00 Sohar Industrial Estate, P. O.
Box 80, PC 327, Sohar, Sultanate 20 20 Ordinary shares of Oman THR Aruba Holdings LLC A. V. V. : Aruba US$1.00 IMC International Management Trust Company N. V. L. G. Smith 100 50.8 Common shares Blvd.
62, Miramar Building, Oranjestad, Aruba c THR Delaware Holdings, LLC: United States National Corporate Research, Ltd. 850 New Burton Road, 50.8 Suite 201, Dover fide 19904, United States THR Kharmagtai Pte Ltd. : Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares THR MINES BC LTD. : Canada CAD 100 Common shares 50.8 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC V6C 1S4, Canada US$ 100 Common shares THR Mines Services Co. Ltd. : Canada CAD Lackowicz Shier & Hoffman Barristers & Solicitors, 300-204 100 50.8 Common shares Black Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 2M9, Canada THR OYU TOLGOI LTD. : British Virgin Islands US$1.00 Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110, 100 50.8 Ordinary shares BritishVirgin Islands THR Ulaan Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinary shares Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 241 Financial statements Notes to the 2018 financial statements continued 47 Related undertakings continued Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakingsother  continued % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country by Group Group % of incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Tisand Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A 100 Ordinary shares ZAR1.00 B 100 Ordinary shares 74 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ZAR1,000.00 Cumulative 100 Preference shares Tomago Aluminium Company Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 51.6 638 Tomago Road, Tomago, NSW 2322, Australia Ordinary shares Turquoise Hill Beijing Services Company Ltd: Room 2913, Cameo Center, No.
16 GuangShun South Street, 50.8 c China WangJing ChaoYang District, Beijing 100102, China Turquoise Hill Netherlands Cooperatief U.
A. : US$ 100 50.8 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands Netherlands COOP shares Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. : Canada CAD 300-204 Black Street, Whitehorse Yukon Territories Y1A 2M9, 50.8 50.8 Common shares Canada Turquoise Hill Resources Philippines Inc. : PHP100.00 Romulo Mabanta Buenaventura Sayoc & fide Los Angeles, 21st d Philippines Common shares 99.9 50.8 Floor, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paseo Roxas, Makati City, 1226, Philippines Turquoise Hill Resources Singapore Pte Ltd. : SGD1.00 100 50.8 2 Venture Drive, #24-01 Vision Exchange, Singapore 608526 Singapore Common shares Twin Falls Power Corporation Ltd: Canada CAD Hydro Place, P. O.
Box 12500, St-Johns Newfounland and 74.4 34.6 Class B shares Labrador A1B 3T5, Canada Wright Mgmt Services Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Ordinaryshares Yalleen Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 63.7 56 Ordinary shares 6000, Australia Zululand Titanium Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 100 74 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa Ordinary shares 242 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements In addition, the Group participates in the following unincorporated arrangements: Interest % owned Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Address or principal place of business by the Group Bao-HI Ranges Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 54 6000, Australia Beasley River Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 53 6000, Australia Cape Bougainville Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 67.5 Channar Mining Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 60 6000, Australia Diavik Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 60 Gladstone Power Station Joint Venture: Australia NRG Gladstone Operating Service, Gladstone Power Station, 42.1 Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia Green Mountain Mining Venture: United States CSC 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States 100 Hope Downs Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 50 6000, Australia Mitchell Plateau Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 65.6 Rhodes Ridge Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 50 6000, Australia Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture: Australia Level 18, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 57.1 6000, Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture: Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2322, Tomago, Australia 51.6 Winter Road Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 33.3 a Directly held by Rio Tinto Limited.
b Directly held by Rio Tinto plc.
c Group ownership is held through an interest in capital.
The entity has no classes of shares.
d In liquidation or application for dissolution filed.
e Dissolved after 31 December 2018. f Classed as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 4 a of the UK Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
com 243 Financial statements Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet 2018 2017 As at 31 December Note US$m US$m Non-current assets Investments B 36,159 36,093 Trade and other receivables 301 396 36,460 36,489 Current assets Trade and other receivables C 10,751 9,242 Cash at bank and in hand 4 5 10,755 9,247 Total assets 47,215 45,736 Current liabilities Trade and other payables D 12,697 12,388 Dividends payable 17 18 Other financial liabilities G 706 347 13,420 12,753 Non-current liabilities Other financial liabilities G 277 341 Total liabilities 13,697 13,094 Net assets 33,518 32,642 Capital and reserves Share capital E 211 220 Share premium account 4,311 4,306 Other reserves F 12,001 11,992 Retained earnings 16,995 16,124 Total equity 33,518 32,642 The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101.
Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year amounted to US$8,538 million 2017: US$7,816 million.
As permitted by section 408 of theUK Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income and the related notes were approved by the directors on 27 February 2019 and the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by Simon Thompson Jean-Sbastien Jacques Jakob Stausholm Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer Rio Tinto plc Registered number: 719885 Rio Tinto plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United Kingdom 244 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Financial statements Rio Tinto plc Company statement of changes in equity Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity Year ended 31 December 2018 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 220 4,306 11,992 16,124 32,642 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 8,538 8,538 Dividends 4,113 4,113 Proceeds from issue of shares 5 5 Share buy-back 9 9 3,624 3,624 Share-based payments 70 70 Total 211 4,311 12,001 16,995 33,518 Share Share premium Other Retained Total capital account reserves earnings equity Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Opening balance 224 4,304 11,988 13,346 29,862 Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 7,816 7,816 Dividends 3,255 3,255 Proceeds from issue of shares 2 2 Share buy-back 4 4 1,828 1,828 Share-based payments 45 45 Total 220 4,306 11,992 16,124 32,642 Rio Tinto plc company information Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 245 Financial statements Notes to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements A Principal accounting policies c. Currency translation a.
Basis of preparation Items included in the financial statements are measured using the The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been prepared using currencyof the primary economic environment in which the Company the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 presentedin US dollars, which is the Companys functional and andFRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going presentation currency.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, concern basis.
including the issue of shares, are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following exemptions Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of available under FRS 101 have been applied: suchtransactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates ofmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment details arerecognised in the profit and loss account.
of the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options and how the fair value of goods and services received was determined.
Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement disclosure of asdisclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 41. valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities.
d. Investments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Investments in Group companies are valued at cost less accumulated Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, impairment losses.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events comparative information requirements in respect of Paragraph 79 a iv orchanges in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may of IAS 1. notberecoverable.
The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: 10 d statement of cash flows : e. Financial guarantees 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including theliability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the cash flow statements : expenditure required to settle the present obligation and the amount 38B-D additional comparative information : initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
111 cash flow statement information : and 134-136 capital management disclosures.
f. Share-based payments IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans for Group Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in employees, the details of which are included in the consolidated financial accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure statements note 43.
The fair value of the Companys share plans is ofinformation when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has recognised as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary beenissued and is not yet effective.
inwhich the relevant employees work over the expected vesting period, Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key management with a corresponding entry to retained earnings.
the Companys subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments are The requirements of IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose recognised as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
The Company uses related party transactions entered into between two or more members fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using either a of a group.
lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking b.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of into account any market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make Non-market based vesting conditions eg relative EBIT margin performance assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in applying targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to accounting policies and making critical accounting estimates.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on managements best balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after previous experience, but actual results may differ materially from the the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
amounts included in the financial statements.
g. Dividend income The key area of judgment that has the most significant effect on the Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for established.
impairment of investment carrying values.
h. Treasury shares The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders funds through retained earnings.
com Financial statements B Investments 2018 2017 US$m US$m Investments in Group companies At 1 January 36,093 36,050 Additions 66 45 Other adjustments 2 At 31 December 36,159 36,093 At 31 December 2018 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries: Country of Percentage Company Principal activity incorporation shareholding Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100% Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100% In accordance with section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note47.
C Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables includes US$10,603 million 31 December 2017: US$9,114 million, which is subject to interest based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Trade and other payables Trade and other payables includes US$12,568 million 31 December 2017: US$12,265 million, which is subject to interest rates based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
E Share capital 2018 2017 US$m US$m a Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each At 1 January 220 224 b Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 9 4 At 31 December 211 220 a 35,380 new shares 2017: 26,241 new shares were issued during the year and 106,045 shares 2017: 147,126 shares were reissued from Treasury pursuant to share plans.
b During the year 63,984,287 shares 2017: 32,937,109 shares were purchased and immediately cancelled.
F Other reserves Other reserves includes US$11,936 million 2017: US$11,936 million, which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
G Rio Tinto plc guarantees Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Groups external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled US$5.9 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: US$7.9 billion.
In addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Groups undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: US$7.5 billion.
Rio Tinto plc has provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability position of US$374 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: US$231 million.
At 31 December 2018 US$4.3 billion of project finance debt was outstanding under this facility 31 December 2017: US$4.3 billion.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is owned by Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC 34%, which is controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd 66%, of which Rio Tinto owns 51%.
Rio Tinto plc company information Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 247 Financial statements Notes to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements continued G Rio Tinto plc guarantees continued Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill issueddeed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed ResourcesLtd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLCs project finance debt contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU contain The liability recognised for financial guarantees is US$359 million acarve-out for certain political risk events.
During 2018, fees of US$40 million 2017: US$44 million were received H Contingent liabilities from Oyu Tolgoi LLC and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd as consideration Details of contingent liabilities are included in note 31 to the forprovision of the CSU with an additional balance of US$5 million .
31December 2017: US$12 million due and included within Current assets Trade and other receivables.
I Events after the balance sheet date There were no significant events identified after the balance sheet Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various datethatare required to be disclosed.
Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay anycontributions due from Group companies participating in these fundsintheevent that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements.
The guarantees were not called upon in 2018.
Theaggregate of company contributions to these plans in 2018 wasUS$11million 2017:US$51 million.
Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Groupentities as at 31 December 2018 amount to US$360 million 31December 2017: US$338 million.
Included within this balance isUS$32million 31 December 2017: US$60 million in relation to non-whollyowned subsidiaries.
com Financial statements Notes to financial information by business unit Business units are classified according to the Groups management structure.
On 1 August 2018, we sold our entire 80% interest in the Kestrel underground coal mine in Queensland, Australia, to a consortium a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted comprising private equity manager EMR Capital EMR and PT Adaro units on a proportionately consolidated basis after adjusting for sales Energy Tbk Adaro, an Indonesian listed coal company, for tosubsidiaries in addition to consolidated sales.
revenue includes subsidiary sales to equity accounted units which arenotincluded in gross sales revenue.
On 1 September 2017, we sold our 100% shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited for US$2.69 billion b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to before working capital adjustments.
equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income statement in the Rio Tinto Coal Australias operating assets of US$ 837 million at period.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the EBITDA impact of the same 31December 2018 include provisions for onerous contracts in relation items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
to rail infrastructure capacity and capital gains tax payable on the divestments announced in the year, partly offset by financial assets c Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of andreceivables relating to contingent royalties and disposal proceeds.
Business unit earnings are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
k Includes our interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane 100%, QIT Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are Madagascar Minerals QMM, 80% and Richards Bay Minerals excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
d Pilbara represents the Groups 100% holding in Hamersley, 50% l Includes our interests in Energy Resources of Australia 68.4% and holding of Hope Downs Joint Venture and 65% holding of Robe River Rssing Uranium Limited Rssing 68.6%.
The Groups net beneficial interest in Robe River Iron weentered into a binding agreement with China National Uranium Associates is 53%, as 30% is held through a 60% owned subsidiary and Corporation Limited CNUC to sell our entire 68.6% interest in 35% is held through a 100% owned subsidiary.
theRssing mine in Namibia, subject to certain conditions.
e Presented on an integrated operations basis, splitting activities m Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and Group has a 53% interest, has an 85% interest in Simfer S. A. the Other integrated operations which reflect the results of the integrated company that manages the Simandou project in Guinea.
The Group production of aluminium and other product group items which relate therefore has a 45.05% indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities to other commercial activities.
are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
f Aluminium capital expenditure is reported net of US$508 million proceeds received on the sale of surplus land at Kitimat.
These n Other operations include our 100% interest in the curtailed Gove proceeds are not included in Aluminiums free cash flow and the alumina refinery and Rio Tinto Marine.
associated gain is excluded from business unit earnings and EBITDA.
o Capital expenditure is the net cash outflow on purchases less sales g Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan Inc. ofproperty, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and Freeport, we were entitled to 40% of material mined above an purchases less sales of other intangible assets.
The details provided agreed threshold as a consequence of expansions and developments include 100% of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos of the Grasberg facilities since 1998 until 21 December 2018.
On shareof the capital expenditure of joint operations and equity 28 September 2018, we entered into a binding agreement to sell our accounted units.
entire interest in the Grasberg mine to PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium Persero Inalum.
The sale completed on 21 December 2018. p Operating assets of subsidiaries is comprised of net assets excluding post-retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and before deducting h Our interest in Oyu Tolgoi is held indirectly through our 50.8% net debt.
Operating assets are stated after the deduction of noninvestment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd TRQ, where TRQs controlling interests these are calculated by reference to the net principal asset is its 66% investment in Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which owns the assets of the relevant companies ie inclusive of such companies Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine.
debtand amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies.
i Includes our interests in Argyle 100% and Diavik 60%.
q Capital expenditure in 2016 for Rio Tinto Coal Australia includes netproceeds of US$192 million for the sale of our 100% interest in j Includes our 82% interest in the Hail Creek coal mine until 1 August theMount Pleasant thermal coal project to MACH Energy Australia 2018, our 80% interest in the Kestrel underground coal mine PtyLtdon 5 August 2016. until 1 August 2018 and interests in the Winchester South until 1 June 2018 and Valeria development projects until 1 August 2018. r Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2018 include our interest in Rssing Uranium Limited, the ISAL smelter, the Aluchemie On 1 June 2018, we sold our entire 75% interest in the Winchester anode plant, and the Alufluor aluminium fluoride plant.
South coal development project in Queensland, Australia, to Whitehaven Coal Limited for US$200 million.
Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2017 included ourinterest in the Dunkerque aluminium smelter and certain On 1 August 2018, we sold our entire 82% interest in the Hail Creek otherseparate assets.
coal mine and 71.2% interest in the Valeria coal development project inQueensland, Australia, to Glencore for US$1.7 billion.
Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2016 included our interests in the Blair Athol coal project and certain separate assets.
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
