"Additional information Investor Centre Forward-looking statements Investor Centre is Computershares free, This announcement includes ""forward-looking statements"" within the meaning of the secure, self-service website, where Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995."
All statements other than statements shareholders can manage their holdings ofhistorical facts included in this announcement, including, without limitation, those online.
The website enables shareholders to: regarding Rio Tintos financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of View share balances management for future operations including development plans and objectives relating Change address details to Rio Tintos products, production forecasts and reserve and resource positions, are View payment and tax information forward-looking statements.
The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, Update payment instructions estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, will, target, set to orsimilar expressions, commonly identify such forward-looking statements.
In addition, shareholders who register their email address can be notified electronically Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties of events such as annual general meetings, andother factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements and can receive shareholder communications ofRioTinto, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, such as the Annual report or notice of performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding RioTintos present and future business strategies and the environment inwhich Rio Tinto plc shareholders RioTinto will operate in the future.
Among the important factors that could cause Website: investorcentre.
co. uk riotinto RioTintos actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are levels of actual production during any period, levels Rio Tinto Limited shareholders of demand and market prices, the ability to produce and transport products profitably, Website: investorcentre.
com rio the impact offoreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, operational problems, political uncertainty and economic conditions in relevant areas ofthe world, the actions of competitors, activities by governmental authorities such aschanges in taxation or regulation and such other risk factors identified in Rio Tintos most recent Annual report and accounts in Australia and the United Kingdom and the most recent Annual report on Form 20-F filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC or Form 6-Ks furnished to, or filed with, the SEC.
Forward-looking statements should, therefore, be construed in light of such risk factorsand undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak onlyas of the date of this announcement.
Rio Tinto expressly disclaims anyobligation or undertaking except as required by applicable law, the UKListing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of theFinancial Conduct Authority and the Listing Rules of the Australian Securities Exchange to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Rio Tintos expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this announcement should be interpreted to mean that future earnings per share of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited will necessarily match or exceed its historical published earnings per share.
com Produced by Superunion www.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and itsEnvironmental Management System is certifiedto ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% ofany waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on GalerieArt Matt, a paper containing fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Rio Tinto Annual report 2018 riotinto.
