Additional information Shareholder information Organisational structure plc share and each Rio Tinto Limited share at an Equalisation Ratio of 1:1.
The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc registered in England and This has remained unchanged ever since, although the Sharing Agreement Wales as company number 719885 under the UK Companies Act 2006 and makes clear this can be revised in special circumstances, for example where listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited registered in certain modifications are made to the share capital of one company such Australia as ABN 96 004 458 404 under the Australian Corporations Act as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share consolidations but 2001 and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in London with a corporate office in Melbourne.
Outside the circumstances specified in the Sharing Agreement, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the approval of shareholders Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored American depositary receipts ADR facility, under the class rights action approval procedure, described in the Voting with underlying shares registered with the US Securities and Exchange arrangements section below.
Any adjustments must be confirmed by the Commission and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Nomenclature and financial data Consistent with the DLC structure, the directors of both companies aim to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The class rights action this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or the Group.
These approval procedure exists to deal with instances where there may be a expressions are used for convenience, since both companies, and other conflict of interest between the shareholders of the two companies.
companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
We usually omit Limited, plc, Pty, To ensure that the boards of both companies are identical, resolutions to Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA from Group company names, appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both companies except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial as Joint Decisions, described in the Voting arrangements section below.
The data in US dollars $ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Constitution of Rio Tinto with, the 2018 financial statements.
In general, we have translated financial Limited make clear that a person can only be a director of one company if data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ from the he or she is also a director of the other.
This means that if a person were consolidated financial statements and have been provided solely for removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be a convenience: exceptions arise where data has been extracted directly from director of Rio Tinto Limited.
Certain key information has been provided in US dollars, pounds sterling and Australian dollars in the 2018 financial statements.
One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory reviews across multiple jurisdictions.
History Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto will comply with the requirements in Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called The Rio each jurisdiction at a minimum.
Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company Limited and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Dividend arrangements Limited.
The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient The Sharing Agreement ensures that dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and copper workings in Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited began RioTinto Limited shares are equalised on a net cash basis without taking into operations in the early twentieth century as part of the Australian mining account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US dollars industry.
Based at Broken Hill in New South Wales, it began mining silver, and with the exception of ADR holders, paid in sterling and Australian lead and zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
dollars, both companies are required to announce and pay dividends and other distributions at the same time or as close to this as possible.
Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called The Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Pty Limited.
In 1962 the Australian In the unlikely event that one company does not have sufficient interests of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited and The Rio Tinto distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or equalised capital Company Limited were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia distribution, it would be entitled to a top-up payment from the other Limited, a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Victoria, company.
The top-up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Australia.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name dividend share, or by way of a contractual payment.
If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral applicable to one of the companies, they can depart from the Equalisation deposits, developed major mining projects and grew through acquisition.
In that situation, the relevant company must put aside reserves for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies structure.
In 1997, RTZ became Rio Tinto plc and CRA became Rio Tinto Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend Limited.
equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
Dual listed companies structure By allowing dividends to be paid between companies and their In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed subsidiaries, DLC dividend shares give the Group extra flexibility companies merger the DLC structure.
The aim was to put shareholders of tomanageinternal funds.
both companies in substantially the same position they would be in if they held shares in a single entity owning all assets of both companies.
Voting arrangements In principle, the Sharing Agreement enables the shareholders of Rio Tinto Following the approval of the DLC structure, both companies entered into a plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on any matters that DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement.
As part of this both affect them in similar ways.
These are referred to as Joint Decisions, and companies agreed to be managed in a unified way, to share the same board of include the creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or directors, and to put in place arrangements to provide shareholders of both removal of directors and auditors, and the receiving of annual financial companies with a common economic interest in the DLC structure.
All shareholder resolutions that include Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
To achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement fixed the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to each Rio Tinto The Sharing Agreement also protects shareholders of both companies by 292 Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com Additional information requiring joint approval for decisions that do not affect the shareholders of The aim is to ensure the shareholders of both companies have equivalent both companies equally.
These are known as class rights actions, and are entitlements to the assets of the combined Group on a per share basis, voted on a poll.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC structure taking account of the equalisation ratio.
cannot be changed unless approved separately by the shareholders of bothcompanies.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the shareholders of either company upon liquidation of either company.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations majority of shareholders in one company, and where approval of the matter The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and by shareholders of the other company is not required.
obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies in excess of defined thresholds.
These can include an obligation to make a Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision public offer for all outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The ora class rights action, the directors cannot change that categorisation.
If a threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is 30% matter falls within both categories, it is treated as a class rights action.
In and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and regulations is 20% on addition, if an issue is not expressly listed in either category, directors can both a standalone and Joint Decision basis.
decide how it should be put to shareholders for approval.
As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the To support joint voting arrangements, both companies have entered into Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the aim of extending shareholder voting agreements, where a Special Voting Share is issued to a these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise.
This amendment also special purpose company SVC and held in trust for shareholders by a ensures that a person cannot exercise control over one company without common trustee.
Rio Tinto plc RTP has issued its Special Voting Share having made offers to the public shareholders of both companies.
RTP Special Voting Share to Rio Tinto Limited RTL Shareholder SVC, while Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting This guarantees the equal treatment of both sets of shareholders, and that Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
The total number of votes cast on Joint the two companies are considered as a single economic entity.
The Articles Decisions by the shareholders of one company are decided at a parallel of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited meeting of the other company.
The exact role of these SVCs is impose restrictions on any person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20% describedbelow.
or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person has aninterest in either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc only, then the In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders can be excluded from restrictions only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30% or more voting at their respective companys general meetings.
For example, they ofthe votes at that companys general meetings.
may have acquired shares in the other company in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the shares in the other company.
If one of these thresholds is exceeded, the person cannot attend or vote Inthis situation, votes cast by these excluded shareholders are disregarded.
atgeneral meetings of the relevant company, cannot receive dividends or other distributions from the relevant company, and may be divested of their Following the companies general meetings, the overall results of the voting interest by the directors of the relevant company subject to certain limited are announced to relevant stock exchanges and the media, and published on exceptions and notification by the relevant company.
These restrictions the Rio Tinto website.
continue to apply until that person has either made a public offer for all the publicly held shares of the other company, has reduced their controlling At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting during which a Joint Decision interest below the thresholds specified, or has acquired through a permitted isconsidered, each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote.
The holder of means at least 50% of the publicly held shares of each company.
theSpecial Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited in their parallel meeting.
The holder of the This arrangement ensures that offers for the publicly held shares of both Special Voting Share must vote in accordance with the votes cast by public companies would be required to avoid the restrictions set out above, even shareholders for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel ifthe interests which breach the thresholds are held in just one of the RioTinto Limited shareholders meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto Limited companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to exempt a person ordinary shares do not hold voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their from the operation of these rules.
holding in Rio Tinto Limited, and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
Under the Sharing Agreement, the companies agree to co-operate to enforce the above restrictions contained in their Articles of Association Similarly, at a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting during which a Joint andConstitution.
Decision is considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the Guarantees public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
The holder of In 1995, each company entered into a deed poll guarantee in favour of the Special Voting Share must vote in accordance with the votes cast for and creditors of the other company.
In addition, each company guaranteed the against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders contractual obligations of the other and the obligations of other persons meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not hold any voting guaranteed by the other company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc, and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
Beneficiaries under deed poll guarantees can make demands on the relevant guarantor without first having recourse to the company or persons Capital distribution arrangements whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor If either company goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement ensures a under each deed poll guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing valuation is made of the surplus assets of both companies.
If the surplus Agreement and under other limited circumstances, but only in respect of assets available for distribution by one company on each of the shares held obligations arising after such termination and, in the case of other limited by its shareholders exceed the surplus assets available for distribution by circumstances, the publication and expiry of due notice.
the other company on each of the shares held by its shareholders, then an equalising payment must be made to the extent permitted by applicable The shareholders of the companies cannot enforce the provisions of the law such that the amount available for distribution on each share held by deed poll guarantees in relation to their interest in the shares of the shareholders of both companies reflects the Equalisation Ratio.
Shareholder information Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 293 Additional information Shareholder information continued Markets Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange, Exchange ASX.
with shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS system.
The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
TheASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts ADRs are listed on the New York StockExchange.
Share ownership Substantial shareholders Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc ADRs are available in Rio Tintos Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian Annual report on Form 20-F.
Corporations Act 2001, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of3% or more, or any person with voting power of 5% or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the relevant companies with notice.
The shareholders who have provided this notice or an equivalent as of 15 February 2019, being the last practicable date, are: Percentage of issued share Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares capital BlackRock, Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24 Feb 2015 56,647,518 4.01 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 17 Sep 2015 54,763,331 3.93 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9 Oct 2015 55,867,795 4.02 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 9 Feb 2018 See footnote See footnote e e The Vanguard Group, Inc. 16 Feb 2018 See footnote See footnote The Vanguard Group, Inc. 19 Jul 2018 20,623,906 5.00 a In its notification of major holdings filed on 7 December 2018, Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium Corporation of China disclosed that its percentage of voting rights in Rio Tinto plc had increased to 14.02% on 18 October 2018.
This increase in voting rights is due to the ongoing on-market share buy-back programme of Rio Tinto plc shares and the number of shares held by Shining Prospect Pte.
b Entities in bold indicate the most recent substantial shareholder notices that have not been superseded by subsequent notices.
c I n its substantial holding notice filed on 13 April 2015, BlackRock, Inc. and its associates disclosed a holding of 120,174,604 shares in Rio Tinto plc and 22,330,443 shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as modified, these interests gave BlackRock, Inc. and its associates voting power of 7.7% in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
d I n its notice of change of interests of substantial holder filed on 9 February 2018 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, disclosed a holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares which, as at 28 November 2017, gave this entity and its associates voting power of 10.32% in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter.
Accordingly, in addition to being substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto plc, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as modified and the DLC structure, these entities are substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
e I n its substantial holding notice filed on 16 February 2018, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and its associate Vanguard Investments Australia Ltd Vanguard disclosed that on 16 June 2017 it held 21,914,711 shares in Rio Tinto Limited, giving it voting power of 5.166%.
By separate notice dated 16 February 2018, Vanguard disclosed that on 15 December 2017 it had ceased to be a substantial holder of shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement that may result in a change in control of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
As of 15 February 2019, the total amount of the Groups voting securities owned by the directors and executives in Rio Tinto plc was 160,388 ordinary shares of 10p each or ADRs, and in Rio Tinto Limited was 137,251 ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than 1% of the Groups total number of ordinary shares in issue.
com Additional information Analysis of ordinary shareholders Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited As at 15 February 2019 No.
b This includes 119,178,675 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American depositary receipts ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,278,627,985 publicly held shares, of which 9,440,735 are held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders The following table lists the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares in accordance with the ASX listing rules, together with the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds, as of 15 February 2019, being the last practicable date.
Percentage of issued share Rio Tinto Limited Number of shares capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 113,813,123 30.66 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 67,951,092 18.30 Citicorp Nominees Pty Ltd 21,357,600 5.75 National Nominees Limited 13,675,423 3.68 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 11,725,761 3.16 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 4,961,988 1.34 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 4,317,767 1.16 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 2,826,606 0.76 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000086 A C 2,360,137 0.64 Argo Investments Limited 2,220,739 0.60 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 1,945,516 0.52 AMP Life Limited 1,144,180 0.31 Computershare Comp Noms Ltd VSA A C 1,140,572 0.31 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000091 A C 1,061,326 0.29 Custodial Services Limited Beneficiaries Holding A C 742,402 0.20 Milton Corporation Limited 660,118 0.18 The Senior Master of the Supreme Court Common Fund No.
3 A C 586,563 0.16 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Hub24 Custodial Serv Ltd DRP 564,831 0.15 BNP Paribas Noms NZ Ltd DRP 538,001 0.14 Australian United Investment Company Limited 500,000 0.13 Shareholder information Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 295 Additional information Shareholder information continued Material contracts Rights attaching to shares Articles of Association, Constitution, and DLC Sharing Agreement Under UK law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits As explained on pages 292 and 293, under the terms of the DLC structure availablefor distribution, as determined in accordance with generally shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into certain accepted accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders contractual arrangements designed to place the shareholders of both areentitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a Directors may also pay shareholders interim dividends as justified by the single entity which owned all the assets of both companies.
As far as is financial position of the Group.
permitted by the UK Companies Act 2006, the Australian Corporations Act2001 and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is reflected in the Articles Under the Australian Corporations Act 2001, dividends on shares may only ofAssociation of Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
be paid if the companys assets exceed its liabilities immediately before The following summaries describe the material rights of shareholders of thedividend is declared, the excess is sufficient for the payment of the both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
dividend, the payment is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders as a whole, and the payment does not materially prejudice the companys Objects ability to pay its creditors.
Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 At the 2009 AGMs, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and RioTinto Limited years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, approved amendments to their Articles of Association andConstitution will be forfeited and returned to the company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the companies to dividend unclaimed may be invested or otherwise used by the board for havethe widest possible scope of activities.
thebenefit of the company until claimed or otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
Rio Tinto Limited is governed by the State of Victorias Directors unclaimed monies legislation, which requires the company to pay to the Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, a director may not vote in state revenue office any unclaimed dividend payments of A$20 or more respect of any proposal in which he or she, or any other person connected thaton 1 March each year have remained unclaimed for over 12 months.
with him or her, has any interest, other than by virtue of his or her interests in shares or debentures or other securities of, in or through the company, Voting except in certain circumstances, including in respect of resolutions: Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which the holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a indemnifying him or her or a third party in respect of obligations incurred poll, and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands unless a by the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the company, or in poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is respect of obligations of the company, for which the director has present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and is assumed responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: entitled to vote, has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
The relating to an offer of securities in which he or she may be interested as a holder of the Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote in a show of hands.
holder of securities or as an underwriter: On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other concerning another body corporate in which the director is beneficially duly authorised representative and is entitled to vote, has one vote for interested in less than 1% of the issued shares of any class of shares of everyordinary share for which he or she is the holder.
In the case of Joint such a body corporate: Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting Share has one vote for each relating to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally votecast in respect of the publicly held shares of the other company.
with other employees: relating to liability insurance that the company is empowered to A poll may be demanded by any of the following: purchase for the benefit of directors of the company in respect of actions undertaken as directors or officers of the company: and the chairman of the meeting: concerning the giving of indemnities in favour of directors or the funding at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: of expenditure by directors to defend criminal, civil or regulatory any shareholder s representing in the aggregate not less than one tenth proceedings or actions against a director.
Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, a director may be present at a any shareholder s holding Rio Tinto plc shares conferring a right to vote meeting of the board while a matter in which the director has a material at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate personal interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares matter, except where a director is constrained by Australian law.
conferring that right: or the holder of the Special Voting Share of either company.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the companies to borrow money, to charge any property or business of the companies or all, A proxy form gives the proxy the authority to demand a poll, or to join others or any, of their uncalled capital, and to issue debentures or give any other in demanding one.
security for a debt, liability or obligation of the companies or of any other person.
The directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three members limitation that the aggregate amount of all monies borrowed by the present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to 1 entitled to vote.
For a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting it is two members times the companies share capital plus aggregate reserves unless present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the company.
Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing Directors are not required to hold any shares of either company by way of ofresolutions as: qualification.
The Remuneration report on pages 101 to 136 provides information on shareholding policies relating to executive and nonordinary resolutions for example the election of directors, which require executive directors.
Please refer to the Directors report for information on the affirmative vote of a majority of persons voting at a meeting for which the appointment of directors.
there is a quorum: and special resolutions for example amending the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc or the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited, which require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the persons voting at ameeting at which there is a quorum.
com Additional information The Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as Joint Decisions Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs andclass rights actions as explained on pages 292 and 293. mustbe obtained for certain payments or other dealings connected with countries or parties identified with terrorism, or to whom United Nations or Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days written notice for autonomous Australian sanctions apply.
Sanction, anti-money laundering Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
In accordance and counterterrorism laws may restrict or prohibit payments, transactions with the authority granted by shareholders at the Rio Tinto plc AGM in 2018, and dealings or require reporting of certain transactions.
other meetings of Rio Tinto plc may be convened with 14 days written notice for the passing of a special resolution, and with 14 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign any other resolution, depending on the nature of the business to be remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from transacted.
All meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
calculating the period of notice, any time taken to deliver the notice and the day of the meeting itself are not included.
The notice must specify the Acquisitions of interests in shares, and certain other equity instruments nature of the business to be transacted.
inAustralian companies by non-Australian foreign persons are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia Variation of rights under the Takeovers Act.
If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to each class may be varied, subject to the provisions In broad terms, the Takeovers Act applies to acquisitions of interests in ofthe relevant legislation, the written consent of holders of three-quarters securities in an Australian entity by a foreign person where, as a result, invalue of the shares of that class, or upon the adoption of a special asingle foreign person and any associate would control 20% or more of resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of the voting power or potential voting power in the entity, or several foreign thatclass.
At every such meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of persons and any associates would control 40% or more of the voting Association and Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting power or the potential voting power in the entity.
The potential voting power apply, except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more in an entity is determined having regard to the voting shares in the entity persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal that would be issued if all rights whether or not presently exercisable in value of the issued shares of the class.
Rights upon a winding-up The Takeovers Act also applies to direct investments by foreign government Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon a investors, in certain circumstances regardless of the size of the investment.
winding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution after the Persons who are proposing relevant acquisitions or transactions may be payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether required to provide notice to the Treasurer before proceeding with the statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors and subject to any acquisition or transaction.
special rights attaching to any class of shares, is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the The Treasurer has the power to order divestment in cases where relevant shares held by them.
This distribution should generally be made in cash.
acquisitions or transactions have already occurred, including where prior Aliquidator may, however, upon the adoption of a special resolution of notice to the Treasurer was not required.
The Takeovers Act does not theshareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part affectthe rights of owners whose interests are held in compliance with ofthe assets in specie or kind.
The Sharing Agreement describes the distribution of assets of each of Limitations on voting and shareholding thecompanies in the event of a liquidation, as explained on pages 292 Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, there are no limitations and293.
imposed by law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreigners to hold the Facility agreement Groups ordinary shares or ADRs, or to vote that would not apply generally Details of the Groups $7.5 billion multi-currency committed revolving to all shareholders.
credit facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2018 financial statements.
Directors Exchange controls and foreign investment Appointment and removal of directors Rio Tinto plc The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by Rio Tinto plc's There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, relevant UK and import or export of capital by, or on the payment of dividends to, nonAustralian legislation, and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The board resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares, or that materially affect the may appoint a director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs operations.
It should be noted, however, that board, so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit various sanctions, laws, regulations or conventions may restrict the import prescribed in these constitutional documents.
An appointed director must or export of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, non-resident holders retire and seek election to office at the next AGM of eachcompany.
In of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs addition to any powers of removal conferred by the UK Companies Act 2006 Articles of Association or under UK law that limit the right of non-resident and the Australian Corporations Act 2001, the company may by ordinary owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
However, certain of the resolution remove any director before the expiry of his or herperiod of office provisions of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act and may, subject to these constitutional documents, by ordinary resolution 1975 the Takeovers Act described below also apply to the acquisition appoint another person who is willing to act as a director in their place.
In line bynon-Australian persons of interests in securities of Rio Tinto plc.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors arerequired to stand for re-election at each AGM.
Rio Tinto Limited Under current Australian legislation, Australia does not impose generalexchange or foreign currency controls.
Subject to some specific requirements and restrictions, Australian and foreign currency may be freely brought into and sent out of Australia.
There are requirements to report cash transfers in or out of Australia of A$10,000 or more.
There isaprohibition on or in some cases the specific prior approval of the Shareholder information Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
