qxp 04 03 2019 16:21 Page 91 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Investor Information Share Price Information The Companys 1 ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and may be identified using the following codes: TIDM: RCP LN SEDOL: 0736639 GB ISIN: GB0007366395 The closing price of the shares is published in the Financial Times and The Daily Telegraph.
Daily and 15 minute delay share price information is displayed on the Companys website: www.
com Registrars and Transfer Office The Companys registrar may be contacted as follows: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Tel: 0370 703 6307 Overseas: 44 370 703 6307 Shareholders may contact the registrar should they need to notify a change of name or address, or have a query regarding the registration of their holding or the payment of a dividend.
Shareholders who wish to have dividends credited directly to their bank account rather than paid by cheque may do so by arrangement with the Companys registrar.
Shareholders may also arrange with the Companys registrar to have their dividend payment invested in additional RIT Capital Partners plc ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Electronic Communication Registered holders of ordinary shares of RIT Capital Partners plc may elect to receive communications from the Company electronically as an alternative to receiving hard copy accounts and circulars.
This facility is provided by the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, and shareholders will need to go online at www.
co. uk and select the eComms Signup section to participate.
To complete the registration process shareholders will need their postcode or country of residence, along with their Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on their share certificates or dividend advices.
You will also be asked to agree to the Terms and Conditions for Electronic Communication with Shareholders.
Registered shareholders also have the facility to check their shareholding, change their address or update their bank mandate instruction by registering to become a member of Investorcentre.
Regardless of whether shareholders sign up for eComms or become a member of Investorcentre, they are able to cast proxy votes in respect of general meetings electronically if they wish by using the link provided on their proxy form or in their email notification.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 91
