Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Segmental analysis RBS International RBSI serves retail, commercial, corporate and Reportable segments financial institution customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man and The directors manage RBS primarily by class of business and present Gibraltar and financial institution customers in Luxembourg and the segmental analysis on that basis.
This includes the review of net London.
interest income for each class of business.
Interest receivable and payable for all reportable segments is therefore presented net.
NatWest Markets helps global financial institutions and corporates Segments charge market prices for services rendered between each manage their financial risks and achieve their short and long-term other: funding charges between segments are determined by RBS financial goals while navigating changing markets and regulation.
Treasury, having regard to commercial demands.
The segment NatWest Markets does this by providing global market access, performance measure is operating profit loss.
financing, risk management and trading solutions from trading hubs in London, Singapore and Stamford with sales offices across key Reportable operating segments locations in the UK, EU, US and Asia.
The reportable operating segments are as follows: Central items & other includes corporate functions, such as RBS Personal & Business Banking PBB comprises two reportable Treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, segments: UK Personal & Business Banking UK PBB and Ulster communications and human resources.
UK PBB serves individuals and mass affluent customers in manages RBS capital resources and RBS-wide regulatory the UK, together with small businesses generally up to 2 million projects and provides services to the reportable segments.
UK PBB includes Ulster Bank customers in Northern Ireland.
Balances in relation to legacy litigation issues and the international Ulster Bank RoI serves individuals and businesses in the Republic of private banking business are included in Central items in the relevant Ireland RoI.
Commercial & Private Banking CPB comprises two reportable Allocation of central balance sheet items segments: Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
Commercial RBS allocates all central costs relating to Services and Functions to Banking serves commercial and corporate customers in the UK.
the business using appropriate drivers, these are reported as indirect Private Banking serves UK high net worth individuals and their costs in the segmental income statements.
Assets and risk-weighted business interests.
assets held centrally, mainly relating to RBS Treasury, are allocated to the business using appropriate drivers.
