Our operating environment Key economic indicators UK gross domestic UK unemployment rate Number of people in employment product growth in the UK million 1.4% 1.8% 4.4% 32.2 4.0% 32.5 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 UK GDP grew by 1.4% in 2018, down from a 1.8% rise in 2017.
Weaker business Bank of England investment has been a contributing factor.
Between Q3 2018 and Q4 2018, base rate business investment fell by 1.4%, the fourth consecutive quarterly decline, meaning investment was 3.7% lower in Q4 2018 compared with a year previously.
Business borrowing increased slightly towards the end of 2018, with loans to non-financial companies up 2.6% in the year to December 2018, compared with 2.1% at the end of 2017.
However, within that, it was larger firms who were primarily responsible for the growth in lending up 4% in the year to December 2018.
In comparison, SMEs loan growth was 0.1% year on year.
Annual inflation hovered just above the Monetary Policy Committees target in December 2018, at 2.1%.
0.50% 0.75% The labour market remained strong with employment rising further to a new Q4 2018 Q4 2017 record 32.5 million in the three months to November 2018 compared to 32.2 million for the three months to November 2017.
This helped push unemployment down to 4.0% in the three months of November 2018, compared to 4.4% at the end of 2017.
Pay growth rose to 3.4% in the three months to November 2018 and vacancies reached new highs.
The Bank of Englands mounting concerns that the pace of activity is exceeding the potential growth rate of the UK economy prompted a rise in the Bank Rate to 0.75% in August 2018, the second increase since November 2017.
However, the Bank of England signalled it expects UK economic growth to slow again in 2019 and therefore envisages any further tightening to be gradual and limited, contingent on the nature of the UKs withdrawal from the EU.
Any time of day Our chatbot Coras only two, but has already chatted with more than 4.3 million customers.
Cora can answer most customer queries and is available to chat 24 7, meaning customers can always get a response in seconds, whatever the time of day.
And the more conversations Cora has, the better Cora gets.
Thanks to clever algorithms, Cora learns from every interaction so the knowledge and service on offer is always improving.
This 24 7 approach to customer service and Coras ability to learn quickly are resulting in great feedback, with 83 per cent of customers giving a 4 or 5 star rating.
10 Making sense of money Through MoneySense, our flagship financial education programme for 5-18 year olds, we have helped over 6.5 million young people to be more financially aware.
During 2018, our employees helped over 77,000 young people learn about money through our MoneySense volunteer workshops in schools.
Money management is an essential life skill that, prepares young people for adult life as well as contributing positively to communities and wider society.
In a fast-changing, digital world its important that young people have the skills, knowledge, and confidence to manage their money well.
MoneySense goes beyond the basics of budgeting and saving, with curriculum-based lessons that also explore fraud and scams, the connection between unmanageable debt and negative emotions and the dangers of money muling.
The programme won Gold for Best Educational Programme at the Corporate Engagement Awards in 2018 and, as MoneySense enters its 25th year, we are proud of the difference its making to young people and our communities.
11 11 Every year we assess the importance The results help evaluate our Key influences in and materiality of external influences performance in the context of wider both in terms of their relevance to our societal issues, inform the banks future our operating stakeholders including customers, strategy and stakeholder engagement.
environment investors, policy makers, bank representatives and topic specialists For more on our key influences and their potential commercial impact process refer to the Sustainable on the bank.
com The environment in which we operate influences our In 2018 the key influences review involved interviews with internal ability to serve customers and external stakeholders and a and create value for the cross-bank workshop.
Longer term Shorter term considerations considerations UK productivity & Reputation Financial economic growth & trust capability Climate & Inclusion & Operational Conduct & Political Social inequality & sustainable diversity resilience litigation landscape financial exclusion finance Generating sustained Cyber Housing Culture, Banking returns security engagement & regulation wellbeing Technology & innovation Skills, capabilities Changing and reward customer expectations Competition High Commercial impact The key influences have been mapped to the banks five strategic priorities Strength & Customer Simplifying Supporting Employee sustainability experience the bank sustainable growth engagement Landing a green deal NatWest Markets played an active role in the issuance of a landmark Green bond by Royal Schiphol Group, which issued its first ever Green bond.
This raised EUR 500million, a first for a European airport.
These proceeds will go towards funding a portfolio of eligible environmental projects to improve energy efficiency.
There will also be investment in new environmentally friendly forms of transportation at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport.
This sector may not seem the most obvious one for a green bond issuance.
But this is part of an increasing trend of clients wanting to contribute to climate action.
NatWest Markets will continue to help clients transition to a lower carbon economy.
Vianney Heeren, Corporate Treasurer says: The transaction reflects Schiphols ambition to be the most sustainable airport.
Proceeds of the bond issue will be used to invest in clean transportation and green buildings.
NatWest Markets did an outstanding job in making this deal a success.
12 12 High Stakeholder interest Understanding the key influences in our operating environment Shorter term considerations Longer term considerations UK productivity & economic growth To respond to growing competitive Inclusion & diversity The UK economy continued to grow in pressures, RBS will need to continue to Building a more inclusive RBS is essential for 2018, albeit below its long-term trend.
improve the banks products and services our customers and colleagues.
We will only RBSs performance is strongly tied to in order to increase market share.
achieve our ambition to be number one for the economic performance of the UK customer service, trust and advocacy if we economy.
With the short and long-term understand the needs of all of our people and outlook for the UK and global economy our customers.
Reputation & trust remaining uncertain, RBS recognises A significant level of trust is required to its role in supporting productivity and ensure RBS is sustainable for the long economic growth.
Continued efforts to restore trust Culture, engagement & wellbeing and safeguard reputation remain a key A healthy culture and engagement are critical focus area.
drivers for overall performance and wellbeing, Political landscape underpinning the banks long-term success.
Political risks continue to evolve with uncertainties related to Brexit.
Conduct & litigation Although RBS has resolved the majority of Skills, capabilities & reward legacy conduct issues and litigation costs RBS faces competition for skilled people.
Generating sustained returns are falling, the focus remains on putting Recruiting, developing and retaining talent To generate sustained returns to its in place and maintaining measures to remains a key priority.
stakeholders, RBS needs to have a prevent future issues related to conduct.
robust business model with a wellmanaged cost base that adapts and responds to changing socio-economic Climate and sustainable finance and environmental factors.
Cyber security As the scientific evidence on climate change With the increasing possibility of becomes even clearer, RBS needs to further significant scale attacks resulting in embed climate risk in its existing risk data breaches and ultimately, damaging management framework and proactively consumer trust, RBS must continue to Technology & innovation assist its customers and clients with the build on a multi-layered approach to Digital maturity is seen as critical to the transition to a low carbon economy.
cyber security and continue to take part future success of RBS as the banking in industry-wide initiatives to monitor sector goes through a period of rapid and anticipate developments.
Together with digital innovation and ongoing efforts Financial capability to reduce costs, there is potential for Against a backdrop of increased focus on debt, significant disruption to traditional fraud and customers in vulnerable situations, banking business models.
Operational resilience RBS has a key role to play in supporting 2018 has seen heightened media customers to use our various banking channels coverage on the operational competency and manage money well on a day to day basis, of UK banks, including data breaches and through significant life events and during Changing customer expectations technology failures.
To provide continuity periods of financial difficulty.
Customers lives are following less of service for customers with minimal predictable paths.
RBS needs to continue disruption, RBS must continue to monitor helping customers with new ways to and assess a diverse array of threats, bank while meeting personalised service both external and internal, as well as Social inequality & financial exclusion expectations and catering to a broad developing, strengthening or adapting Squeezed incomes, the gig economy and range of lifestyles and differing levels existing control capability to be able to rising cost of living means many UK consumers of digital and financial understanding.
absorb and adapt to such disruptions.
find themselves in precarious financial situations.
Access to mainstream financial services coupled with a lack of digital footprint and skills remains a concern across a number Banking regulation of stakeholders.
Competition RBS continues to operate in an Regulators continue to encourage increasingly complex regulatory competition in the banking sector, environment.
Regulatory and legislative with January 2018 seeing the arrival focus is broadening from banking Housing of Open Banking and Payment Services regulation to include non-banking Housing is a major expense for most people Directive 2 PSD2.
specific regulation, for example relating and in many parts of the UK there are to artificial intelligence and climate concerns about the affordability, standard and change.
RBS is a major mortgage provider and also lends to the housing and construction sectors.
Where to find out more 2018 Building a more Governance at Chairman CEO Sustainable a glance highlights review sustainable Banking pages bank on rbs.
com Our business Outlook Risk Climate related Key economic performance overview disclosures indicators 13
