Notes on the consolidated accounts 33 Adoption of IFRS 9 continued The table below reflects the impact of IFRS 9 on total equity: Total m At 31 December 2017 - under IAS 39 49,093 Classification & measurement 561 - Mandatory fair value through profit or loss assets - adjustments following business model reviews SPPI 1 579 - Equity shares held at cost under IAS 39 - fair value adjustments through FVOCI reserve 48 - Additional write-down of amortised cost assets 66 Expected credit losses 616 - Amortised cost assets 531 - Contingent liabilities and commitments 85 Tax 16 At 1 January 2018 - under IFRS on transition to IFRS 9 49,022 Note: 1 Includes 583 million credit in relation to loans to customers and 4 million debit in relation to debt securities.
34 Related parties Other related parties UK Government a In their roles as providers of finance, RBS companies provide On 1 December 2008, the UK Government through HM Treasury development and other types of capital support to businesses.
became the ultimate controlling party of The Royal Bank of Scotland These investments are made in the normal course of business and Group plc.
The UK Government's shareholding is managed by UK on arm's length terms.
In some instances, the investment may Government Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK extend to ownership or control over 20% or more of the voting Government.
As a result, the UK Government and UK Government rights of the investee company.
However, these investments are controlled bodies became related parties of the Group.
not considered to give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under IAS 24.
The Group enters into transactions with many of these bodies on an b RBS recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund arms length basis.
Transactions include the payment of: taxes with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts principally UK corporation tax Note 7 and value added tax: national involved are not material to the Group.
insurance contributions: local authority rates: and regulatory fees and c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between RBS levies including the bank levy Note 3 and FSCS levies Note 27 entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not together with banking transactions such as loans and deposits reported.
undertaken in the normal course of banker-customer relationships.
d The captions in the primary financial statements of the parent company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These Bank of England facilities amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant notes to The Group may participate in a number of schemes operated by the the financial statements.
Bank of England in the normal course of business.
Members of the Group that are UK authorised institutions are required to maintain non-interest bearing cash ratio deposits with the Bank of England amounting to 0.296% of their average eligible liabilities in excess of 600 million.
They also have access to Bank of England reserve accounts: sterling current accounts that earn interest at the Bank of England Rate.
35 Post balance sheet events On 6 February 2019, a General Meeting of shareholders authorised the directors to agree buy-backs by the company of ordinary shares from HM Treasury.
The authority is subject to renewal at the company's forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Other than this there have been no other significant events between 31 December 2018 and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or additional disclosure in the accounts.
