Parent company financial statements and notes 1 Presentation of accounts The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis refer to the Report of the directors, page 85 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee of the IASB as adopted by the European Union together IFRS.
The company's financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and certain issued securities are stated at fair value.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged.
The accounting policies that are applicable to the company are included in RBS accounting polices which are set out on pages 182 to 186 of the consolidated financial statements, except that it has no policy regarding Basis of consolidation and that the companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment.
2 Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation uncertainty The reported results of the company are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the companys accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are those involved in assessing the impairment, if any, in its investments in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, the company assesses whether there is any indication that its investment in a subsidiary is impaired.
If any such indication exists, the company undertakes an impairment test by comparing the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary with its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an investment in a subsidiary is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgments: the choice of appropriate discount and growth rates: and the estimation of fair value.
Accounting developments International Financial Reporting Standards A number of IFRSs and amendments to IFRS were in issue at 31 December 2018.
None are expected to have an impact on the Company from 1 January 2019 or later.
IFRS 9 Transition In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with an effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaced the previous financial instruments standard IAS 39, setting out new accounting requirements in a number of areas.
The principle features of IFRS 9 are disclosed in the RBS accounting policies The classification and measurement and impairment requirements were applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
The 1 January 2018, post tax increase in equity was 0.2 billion.
There has been no restatement of accounts prior to 2018.
The Group opted to early adopt the IFRS 9 amendment on negative compensation with effect from 1 January 2018.
3 Financial instruments - fair value The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet.
2018 2017 Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value bn bn bn bn Financial assets Amounts due from subsidiaries 1 12.0 12.0 25.0 25.4 Other financial assets Debt securities 2 0.1 0.2 Financial liabilities Amounts due to subsidiaries 3 0.6 0.5 Other financial liabilities Debt securities in issue 2 16.8 16.7 9.1 9.8 Subordinated liabilities 2 7.9 8.3 8.0 8.8 Notes: 1 Fair value hierarchy: level 2 - 5.0 billion 2017 - 11.3 billion and level 3 - 7.0 billion 2017 - 14.1 billion.
