Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December 2018.
Although RBS is exposed to credit risk in the event of a customers failure to meet its obligations, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of RBS's expectation of future losses.
More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years 2018 2017 m m m m m m Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 1,296 414 250 1,992 3,952 7,718 Other contingent liabilities 1,111 582 211 1,148 3,052 3,391 Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 61,105 20,934 32,535 5,305 119,879 124,941 Contingent liabilities and commitments 63,512 21,930 32,996 8,445 126,883 136,050 Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have been Standby facilities and credit lines - under a loan commitment, RBS entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future.
Loan corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in assets commitments, which are usually for a specified term, may be and liabilities.
RBS's maximum exposure to credit loss, in the event of unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all conditions in its obligation crystallising and all counterclaims, collateral or security the loan facility are satisfied or waived.
Commitments to lend include proving valueless, is represented by the contractual nominal amount of commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to these instruments included in the table above.
These commitments commercial paper conduits and unutilised overdraft facilities.
and contingent obligations are subject to RBS's normal credit approval processes.
Other commitments - these include documentary credits, which are commercial letters of credit providing for payment by RBS to a named Guarantees - RBS gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A beneficiary against presentation of specified documents, forward asset financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that RBS purchases, forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance and will meet a customer's specified obligations to third party if the revolving underwriting facilities, and other short-term trade related customer fails to do so.
The maximum amount that RBS could be transactions.
required to pay under a guarantee is its principal amount as in the table above.
RBS expects most guarantees to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
2018 2017 m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 - within 1 year 232 220 - after 1 year but within 5 years 736 696 - after 5 years 1,721 1,676 2,689 2,592 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 17 18 Contracts to purchase goods or services 2 541 682 3,247 3,292 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases.
2 Of which due within 1 year: 253 million 2017 - 276 million.
229 Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Memorandum items continued Matters affect the amount and timing of any potential outflows for both Trustee and other fiduciary activities Matters with respect to which provisions have been established and In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may hold or other contingent liabilities.
place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, pension schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included in The future outflow of resources in respect of any Matter may ultimately the Group's financial statements.
The Group earned fee income of prove to be substantially greater than or less than the aggregate 257 million 2017 - 244 million: 2016 - 251 million from these provision that RBS has recognised.
Where and as far as liability activities.
cannot be reasonably estimated, no provision has been recognised.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme Other than those discussed below, no member of the Group is or has The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's been involved in governmental, legal or regulatory proceedings statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial including those which are pending or threatened that are expected to services firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its be material, individually or in aggregate.
RBS expects that in future obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising periods, additional provisions, settlement amounts and customer management expenses levies and compensation levies on the redress payments will be necessary, in amounts that are expected to industry.
In relation to protected deposits, each deposit-taking be substantial in some instances.
institution contributes towards these levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the For a discussion of certain risks associated with the Groups litigation, scheme year which runs from 1 April to 31 March, subject to annual investigations and reviews, see the Risk Factor relating to legal, maxima set by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
In addition, the regulatory and governmental actions and investigations set out on FSCS has the power to raise levies on a firm that has ceased to page 261. participate in the scheme and is in the process of ceasing to be authorised for the costs that it would have been liable to pay had the Litigation FSCS made a levy in the financial year it ceased to be a participant in Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS litigation in the US the scheme.
RBS companies continue to defend RMBS-related claims in the US in which plaintiffs allege that certain disclosures made in connection with The FSC had borrowed from HM Treasury to fund compensation costs the relevant offerings of RMBS contained materially false or associated with the failure of Bradford & Bingley, Heritable Bank, misleading statements and or omissions regarding the underwriting Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander, Landsbanki Icesave and London standards pursuant to which the mortgage loans underlying the RMBS Scottish Bank plc.
The industry has now repaid all outstanding loans were issued.
The remaining RMBS lawsuits against RBS companies with the final 4.7 billion being repaid in June 2018.
The loan was consist of cases filed by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Boston and interest bearing with the reference rate being the higher of 12 month Seattle and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that together LIBOR plus 111 basis points or the relevant gilt rate for the equivalent involve the issuance of less than US$1 billion of RMBS issued cost of borrowing from HMT.
In addition, NatWest Markets Securities Inc. previously agreed to settle a purported RMBS class action entitled RBS Group has accrued 1.8 million for its share of estimated FSCS New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v. Novastar Mortgage Inc. et al.
for US$55.3 million, which has been paid into escrow pending court approval of the settlement.
Litigation, investigations and reviews The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc the company or RBSG and London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and other rates litigation certain members of the Group are party to legal proceedings and the NatWest Markets Plc and certain other members of the Group, subject of investigation and other regulatory and governmental action including RBSG, are defendants in a number of class actions and Matters in the United Kingdom UK, the United States US, the individual claims pending in the US primarily in the United States European Union EU and other jurisdictions.
District Court for the Southern District of New York SDNY with respect to the setting of LIBOR and certain other benchmark interest RBS recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these Matters rates.
The complaints allege that certain members of the Group and when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be other panel banks violated various federal laws, including the US required to settle an obligation resulting from past events, and a commodities and antitrust laws, and state statutory and common law, reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
as well as contracts, by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBORbased derivatives in various markets through various means.
In many proceedings and investigations, it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate reliably the amount of any Several class actions relating to USD LIBOR, as well as more than two loss, either as a direct consequence of the relevant proceedings and dozen non-class actions concerning USD LIBOR, are part of a investigations or as a result of adverse impacts or restrictions on coordinated proceeding in the SDNY.
In December 2016, the SDNY RBSs reputation, businesses and operations.
Numerous legal and held that it lacks personal jurisdiction over NatWest Markets Plc with factual issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially respect to certain claims.
As a result of that decision, all Group lengthy discovery and document production exercises and companies have been dismissed from each of the USD LIBOR-related determination of important factual matters, and by addressing novel or class actions including class actions on behalf of over-the-counter unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, plaintiffs, exchanged-based purchaser plaintiffs, bondholder plaintiffs, before a liability can reasonably be estimated for any claim.
RBS and lender plaintiffs, but six non-class cases in the coordinated cannot predict if, how, or when such claims will be resolved or what proceeding remain pending against Group defendants.
The dismissal the eventual settlement, damages, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, of Group companies for lack of personal jurisdiction is the subject of a may be, particularly for claims that are at an early stage in their pending appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second development or where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate Circuit.
Among the non-class claims dismissed by the SDNY in December There are situations where RBS may pursue an approach that in some 2016 were claims that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation instances leads to a settlement agreement.
This may occur in order to FDIC had asserted on behalf of certain failed US banks.
On 10 July avoid the expense, management distraction or reputational 2017, the FDIC, on behalf of 39 failed US banks, commenced implications of continuing to contest liability, or in order to take account substantially similar claims against RBS companies and others in the of the risks inherent in defending claims or investigations, even for High Court of Justice of England and Wales.
The action alleges that those Matters for which RBS believes it has credible defences and the defendants breached should prevail on the merits.
The uncertainties inherent in all such 230 Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Memorandum items continued Litigation, investigations and reviews In 2015, RBS companies paid US$255 million to settle the consolidated antitrust class action on behalf of persons who entered English and European competition law as well as asserting common into over-the-counter FX transactions with defendants or who traded law claims of fraud under US law.
That settlement received final court approval in August 2018.
On 7 November 2018, some members of the In addition, there are two class actions relating to JPY LIBOR and settlement class who opted out of the settlement filed their own nonEuroyen TIBOR, both pending before the same judge in the SDNY.
In class complaint in the SDNY asserting antitrust claims against RBS the first class action, which relates to Euroyen TIBOR futures companies and others.
On 31 December 2018, some of the same contracts, the court dismissed the plaintiffs antitrust claims in March claimants, as well as others, filed proceedings in the High Court in 2014, but declined to dismiss their claims under the Commodity London, asserting competition claims against NatWest Markets Plc Exchange Act for price manipulation, and the case is proceeding in the and several other banks.
The second class action relates to other derivatives allegedly tied to JPY LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR.
The court dismissed Two other FX-related class actions remain pending.
First, there is a that case on 10 March 2017 on the ground that the plaintiffs lack class action on behalf of consumers and end-user businesses, which standing.
The plaintiffs have commenced an appeal of that decision.
is proceeding in the discovery phase following the SDNYs denial of the defendants motions to dismiss in March 2018.
Second, there is a There is also a class action relating to the Singapore Interbank Offered class action on behalf of indirect purchasers of FX instruments which Rate and Singapore Swap Offer Rate pending in the SDNY.
In that plaintiffs define as persons who transacted FX instruments with retail case, the court denied defendants motion to dismiss on 5 October foreign exchange dealers that transacted directly with defendant 2018.
The courts ruling would permit certain antitrust claims to banks.
That case is also proceeding in discovery following the proceed against NatWest Markets Plc and other non-RBS defendants, SDNYs denial of defendants motion to dismiss on 25 October 2018. however, in November 2018, the defendants filed another motion to dismiss plaintiffs claims.
RBS companies have also been named as defendants in two motions to certify FX-related class actions in the Tel Aviv District Court in Four other class action complaints were filed against RBS companies Israel.
in the SDNY, each relating to a different reference rate.
In the case relating to Pound Sterling LIBOR, the court dismissed all claims Certain other foreign exchange transaction related claims have been against RBS companies, for various reasons, on 21 December 2018, or may be threatened against RBS companies.
RBS cannot predict and plaintiffs are seeking reconsideration of that decision.
In the case whether any of these claims will be pursued, but expects that some relating to the Australian Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate, the court may.
dismissed all claims against RBS companies for lack of personal jurisdiction on 26 November 2018, but plaintiffs have filed an amended US Treasury securities antitrust litigation complaint, which will be the subject of a further motion to dismiss.
In NatWest Markets Securities Inc. is a defendant in a consolidated the case relating to Euribor, the court dismissed all claims against RBS antitrust class action pending in the SDNY on behalf of persons who companies for lack of personal jurisdiction on 21 February 2017.
In the transacted in US Treasury securities or derivatives based on such case relating to Swiss Franc LIBOR, the court dismissed all claims instruments, including futures and options.
The plaintiffs allege that against all defendants on various grounds on 25 September 2017, but defendants rigged the US Treasury securities auction bidding process held that it has personal jurisdiction over NatWest Markets Plc and to deflate prices at which they bought such securities and colluded to allowed the plaintiffs to replead their complaint.
Defendants renewed increase the prices at which they sold such securities to plaintiffs.
The motion to dismiss the amended complaint relating to Swiss Franc defendants motion to dismiss this matter remains pending.
Swaps antitrust litigation NatWest Markets Plc has also been named as a defendant in a motion NatWest Markets Plc and other members of the Group, including to certify a class action relating to LIBOR in the Tel Aviv District Court RBSG, as well as a number of other interest rate swap dealers, are in Israel.
defendants in several cases pending in the SDNY alleging violations of the US antitrust laws in the market for interest rate swaps.
There is a NatWest Markets Plc is defending a claim in the High Court in London consolidated class action complaint on behalf of persons who entered brought by London Bridge Holdings Ltd and others, in which the into interest rate swaps with the defendants, as well as non-class claimants allege LIBOR manipulation in connection with the sale of action claims by three swap execution facilities TeraExchange, interest rate hedging products.
The sum claimed in that case is 446.7 Javelin, and trueEx.
The plaintiffs allege that the swap execution million.
facilities would have successfully established exchange-like trading of interest rate swaps if the defendants had not unlawfully conspired to On 4 February 2019, a claim was issued against NatWest Markets Plc prevent that from happening through boycotts and other means.
by London Borough of Newham, in respect of certain lender option Discovery in these cases is ongoing.
In addition, on 8 June 2017, TeraExchange filed a complaint against Details of UK litigation claims in relation to the alleged mis-sale of RBS companies, including RBSG, as well as a number of other credit interest rate hedging products IRHPs involving LIBOR-related default swap dealers, in the SDNY.
TeraExchange alleges it would allegations are set out under Interest rate hedging products litigation have established exchange-like trading of credit default swaps if the on page 232. defendant dealers had not engaged in an unlawful antitrust conspiracy.
On 1 October 2018, the court dismissed all claims against RBS In January 2019, a class action antitrust complaint was filed in the companies.
SDNY alleging that the defendants USD ICE LIBOR panel banks and affiliates have conspired to suppress USD ICE LIBOR from 2014 to Madoff the present by submitting incorrect information to ICE about their NatWest Markets N. V. NWM N. V. is a defendant in two actions filed borrowing costs.
The RBS defendants are RBSG, NatWest Markets by Irving Picard, as trustee for the bankruptcy estates of Bernard L. Plc, NatWest Markets Securities Inc. and NatWest Plc.
Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, in bankruptcy court in New York.
In both cases, the trustee alleges that FX antitrust litigation certain transfers received by NatWest Markets N. V. amounted to NatWest Markets Plc and certain other members of the Group, fraudulent conveyances that should be clawed back for the benefit of including RBSG, are defendants in several cases relating to NatWest the Madoff estate.
Markets Plcs foreign exchange FX business, each of which is pending before the same federal judge in the SDNY.
231 Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Memorandum items continued levied.
Separately, RBS is a named defendant in civil proceedings Litigation, investigations and reviews before the High Court brought in 2015 by ten companies all in In the primary action, filed in December 2010, the trustee originally liquidation the Liquidated Companies and their respective sought to recover US$75.8 million in redemptions that NWM N. V. liquidators together, the Claimants.
The Liquidated Companies allegedly received from certain Madoff feeder funds and US$162.1 previously traded in EUAs in 2009 and are alleged to be defaulting million that NWM N. V. allegedly received from certain swap traders within or otherwise connected to the EUA supply chains counterparties.
In August 2018, the trustee voluntarily dismissed a forming the subject of the Tax Dispute.
The Claimants claim portion of this claim relating to US$74.6 million received from certain approximately 71.4 million plus interest and costs and allege that swap counterparties without prejudice to-refiling at a later date.
NatWest Markets Plc dishonestly assisted the directors of the Otherwise this action remains pending before the bankruptcy court, Liquidated Companies in the breach of their statutory duties and or where it will in due course be the subject of a motion to dismiss.
In the knowingly participated in the carrying on of the business of the second action, filed in October 2011, the trustee seeks to Liquidated Companies with intent to defraud creditors.
The trial in that recover an additional US$21.8 million.
In November 2016, the matter concluded on 20 July 2018 and judgment is awaited.
bankruptcy court dismissed this case on international comity grounds, and that decision is currently on appeal to the United States Court of US Anti-Terrorism Act litigation Appeals for the Second Circuit.
NatWest Plc is defending lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by a number of US nationals Thornburg adversary proceeding or their estates, survivors, or heirs who were victims of terrorist Certain RBS companies were defendants in an adversary proceeding attacks in Israel.
The plaintiffs allege that NatWest Plc is liable for filed in the US bankruptcy court in Maryland by the trustee for TMST, damages arising from those attacks pursuant to the US Anti-Terrorism Inc. formerly known as Thornburg Mortgage, Inc..
The trustee sought Act because NatWest Plc previously maintained bank accounts and recovery of transfers made under certain restructuring agreements as transferred funds for the Palestine Relief & Development Fund, an avoidable fraudulent and preferential transfers.
On 26 October 2018, organisation which plaintiffs allege solicited funds for Hamas, the the bankruptcy court approved a US$23.5 million settlement of this alleged perpetrator of the attacks.
RBS companies have paid this settlement amount, which was covered by a provision existing as of 30 September 2018.
In October 2017, the trial court dismissed claims against NatWest Plc with respect to two of the 18 terrorist attacks at issue.
On 14 March Interest rate hedging products and similar litigation 2018, the trial court granted a request by NatWest Plc for leave to file RBS is dealing with a number of active litigation claims in the UK in a renewed summary judgment motion in respect of the remaining relation to the alleged mis-selling of interest rate hedging products claims, which has now been filed.
No trial date has been set.
In general claimants allege that the relevant IRHPs were missold to them, with some also alleging that misrepresentations were NatWest Markets N. V. and certain other financial institutions, are made in relation to LIBOR.
Claims have been brought by customers defendants in several actions pending in the United States District who were considered under the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Courts for the Eastern and Southern Districts of New York, filed by a redress programme for IRHPs, as well as customers who were outside number of US nationals or their estates, survivors, or heirs, most of of the scope of that programme, which was closed to new entrants on whom are or were US military personnel, who were killed or injured in 31 March 2015.
RBS remains exposed to potential claims from attacks in Iraq between 2003 and 2011.
NatWest Markets Plc is also a customers who were either ineligible to be considered for redress or defendant in some of these cases.
who are dissatisfied with their redress offers.
The attacks at issue in the cases were allegedly perpetrated by Property Alliance Group PAG v NatWest Markets Plc was the leading Hezbollah and certain Iraqi terror cells allegedly funded by the Islamic case before the English High Court involving both IRHP mis-selling Republic of Iran.
According to the plaintiffs allegations, the defendants and LIBOR misconduct allegations.
The amount claimed was 34.8 are liable for damages arising from the attacks because they allegedly million and the trial ended in October 2016.
In December 2016 the conspired with Iran and certain Iranian banks to assist Iran in Court dismissed all of PAGs claims.
PAG appealed that decision, and transferring money to Hezbollah and the Iraqi terror cells, in violation of the Court of Appeals judgment dismissing the appeal was handed the US Anti-Terrorism Act, by agreeing to engage in stripping of down on 2 March 2018.
On 24 July 2018 the Supreme Court declined transactions initiated by the Iranian banks so that the Iranian nexus to the request from PAG for permission to appeal an aspect of the the transactions would not be detected.
The first of these actions was judgment relating to implied representations of Sterling LIBOR rates.
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New The Court of Appeals decision may impact other IRHP and LIBORYork in November 2014.
On 27 July 2018, the magistrate judge in that related cases currently pending in the English courts, some of which case issued a report to the district court recommending that the district involve substantial amounts.
court deny the defendants pending motion to dismiss.
NatWest Markets N. V. has requested that the district court grant the motion to Separately, NatWest Markets Plc is defending claims filed in France by dismiss notwithstanding the magistrates recommendation.
The other five French local authorities relating to structured interest rate swaps.
actions are either subject to a pending motion to dismiss, or will be the The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the swaps are void for subject of such a motion in due course.
being illegal transactions, that they were mis-sold, and that information advisory duties were breached.
One of the claims is now at an end Securities underwriting litigation following the Court of Appeals dismissal of the claim, and is not being NatWest Markets Securities Inc. is an underwriter defendant in several appealed to the Supreme Court.
Three of the claims were also securities class actions in the US in which plaintiffs generally allege dismissed but are subject to appeal to the Supreme Court.
The fifth that an issuer of public debt or equity securities, as well as the claim remains to be heard before the lower courts.
underwriters of the securities including NatWest Markets Securities Inc., are liable to purchasers for misrepresentations and omissions Tax dispute made in connection with the offering of such securities.
HMRC issued a tax assessment in 2012 against NatWest Markets Plc for approximately 86 million regarding a value-added-tax VAT Investigations and reviews matter in relation to the trading of European Union Allowances RBSs businesses and financial condition can be affected by the EUAs by an RBS joint venture subsidiary in 2009.
RBS has lodged actions an appeal, which is still to be heard, before the First-tier Tribunal Tax, a specialist tax tribunal, challenging the assessment the Tax Dispute.
In the event that the assessment is upheld, interest and costs would be payable, and a penalty of up to 100 per cent of the VAT held to have been legitimately denied by HMRC could also be 232 Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Memorandum items continued Foreign exchange related investigations Litigation, investigations and reviews In 2014 and 2015, NatWest Markets Plc paid significant penalties to of various governmental and regulatory authorities in the UK, the US, resolve investigations into its FX business by the FCA, the CFTC, the the EU and elsewhere.
RBS has engaged, and will continue to DoJ, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System engage, in discussions with relevant governmental and regulatory Federal Reserve.
As part of its plea agreement with the DoJ, authorities, including in the UK, the US, the EU and elsewhere, on an NatWest Markets Plc pled guilty to a one-count information charging ongoing and regular basis, and in response to informal and formal an antitrust conspiracy occurring between as early as December 2007 inquiries or investigations, regarding operational, systems and control to at least April 2010.
NatWest Markets Plc admitted that it knowingly, evaluations and issues including those related to compliance with through one of its euro US dollar currency traders, joined and applicable laws and regulations, including consumer protection, participated in a conspiracy to eliminate competition in the purchase business conduct, competition anti-trust, anti-bribery, anti-money and sale of the euro US dollar currency pair exchanged in the FX spot laundering and sanctions regimes.
On 5 January 2017, the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut imposed a sentence on NatWest Markets Plc The NatWest Markets business in particular has been providing, and consisting of a US$395 million fine and a three-year probation, which continues to provide, information regarding a variety of matters, among other things, prohibits NatWest Markets Plc from committing including, for example, the setting of benchmark rates and related another crime in violation of US law or engaging in the FX trading derivatives trading, conduct in the foreign exchange market, and practices that form the basis for the charged crime and requires various issues relating to the issuance, underwriting, and sales and NatWest Markets Plc to implement a compliance program designed to trading of fixed-income securities, including structured products and prevent and detect the unlawful conduct at issue and to strengthen its government securities, some of which have resulted, and others of compliance and internal controls as required by other regulators which may result, in investigations or proceedings.
including the FCA and the CFTC.
A violation of the terms of probation could lead to the imposition of additional penalties.
Any matters discussed or identified during such discussions and inquiries may result in, among other things, further inquiry or As part of the settlement with the Federal Reserve, NatWest Markets investigation, other action being taken by governmental and regulatory Plc and NatWest Markets Securities Inc. entered into a cease and authorities, increased costs being incurred by RBS, remediation of desist order the FX Order.
In the FX Order, which is publicly available systems and controls, public or private censure, restriction of RBSs and will remain in effect until terminated by the Federal Reserve, business activities and or fines.
Any of the events or circumstances NatWest Markets Plc and NatWest Markets Securities Inc. agreed to mentioned in this paragraph or below could have a material adverse take certain remedial actions with respect to FX activities and certain effect on RBS, its business, authorisations and licences, reputation, other designated market activities, including the creation of an results of operations or the price of securities issued by it.
enhanced written internal controls and compliance program, an improved compliance risk management program, and an enhanced RBS is co-operating fully with the investigations and reviews described internal audit program.
NatWest Markets Plc and NatWest Markets below.
Securities Inc. are obligated to implement and comply with these programs as approved by the Federal Reserve, and are also required RMBS and other securitised products investigations to conduct, on an annual basis, a review of applicable compliance In the US, RBS companies have in recent years been involved in policies and procedures and a risk-focused sampling of key controls.
investigations relating to, among other things, issuance, underwriting and trading in RMBS and other mortgage-backed securities and NatWest Markets Plc is co-operating with investigations and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
responding to inquiries from other governmental and regulatory including competition authorities on similar issues relating to failings Investigations by the US Department of Justice DoJ and certain state in its FX business.
The timing and amount of financial penalties with attorneys general relating to the issuance and underwriting of RMBS respect to any further settlements and related litigation risks and were resolved in 2018.
Certain other state attorneys general have collateral consequences remain uncertain and may well be material.
sought information regarding similar issues, and RBS is aware that at least one such investigation is ongoing.
FCA review of RBSs treatment of SMEs In 2014, the FCA appointed an independent Skilled Person under In October 2017, NatWest Markets Securities Inc. entered into a nonsection 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to review prosecution agreement NPA with the United States Attorney for the RBSs treatment of SME customers whose relationship was managed District of Connecticut USAO in connection with alleged by RBSs Global Restructuring Group GRG in the period 1 January misrepresentations to counterparties relating to secondary trading in 2008 to 31 December 2013. various forms of asset-backed securities.
As part of the NPA, the USAO agreed not to file criminal charges relating to certain conduct The Skilled Person delivered its final report to the FCA during and information described in the NPA if NatWest Markets Securities September 2016, and the FCA published an update in November Inc. complies with the terms of the NPA.
In response, RBS announced redress steps for SME customers Markets Securities Inc. agreed to a six-month extension of the NPA in the UK and the Republic of Ireland that were in GRG between 2008 while the USAO reviews the circumstances of an unrelated matter and 2013.
These steps were i an automatic refund of certain complex reported during the course of the NPA.
fees: and ii a new complaints process, overseen by an independent third party.
The complaints process closed on 22 October 2018 for US mortgages - loan repurchase matters new complaints in the UK and, with the exception of a small cohort of RBSs NatWest Markets business in North America was a purchaser potential complainants for whom there is an extended deadline, on 31 of non-agency residential mortgages in the secondary market, and an December 2018 for new complaints in the Republic of Ireland.
issuer and underwriter of non-agency RMBS, and, in some circumstances, made certain representations and warranties regarding RBS made a provision of 400 million in 2016, in respect of the above the characteristics of the underlying loans.
As a result, NatWest redress steps, of which 270 million had been utilised by 31 December Markets may be, or may have been, contractually required to 2018.
An additional provision of 50 million was taken at 31 December repurchase such loans or indemnify certain parties against losses for 2018 reflecting the increased costs of the complaints process.
certain breaches of such representations and warranties.
Depending on the extent to which such loan repurchase related claims are pursued against and not rebutted by NatWest Markets on timeliness or other grounds, the aggregate potential impact on RBS, if any, may be material.
233 Notes on the consolidated accounts level of commission from the sale of PPI, but did not disclose this 27 Memorandum items continued detail at the point of sale.
The Policy Statement also introduced a two Litigation, investigations and reviews year PPI deadline, due to expire in August 2019, before which new The FCA published a summary of the Skilled Persons report in PPI complaints must be made.
RBS is implementing the Policy November 2017.
The UK House of Commons Treasury Select Statement.
Committee, seeking to rely on Parliamentary powers, published the full version of the Skilled Persons report on 20 February 2018.
On 31 July RBS has made provisions totalling 5.3 billion to date for PPI claims, 2018, the FCA confirmed that it had concluded its investigation and including an additional provision of 200 million taken at Q3 2018, that it does not intend to take disciplinary or prohibitory action against reflecting greater than predicted complaints volumes.
Of the 5.3 any person in relation to these matters.
It has subsequently indicated billion cumulative provision, 4.7 billion had been utilised by 31 that it will shortly publish a final summary of its investigative work.
Investment advice review FCA mortgages market study As a result of an FSA review in 2013, the FCA required RBS to carry In December 2016, the FCA launched a market study into the provision of mortgages.
On 4 May 2018 the interim report was out a past business review and customer contact exercise on a sample published.
This found that competition was working well for many of historic customers who received investment advice on certain lump sum products, during the period from March 2012 until December customers but also proposed remedies to help customers shop around more easily for mortgages.
Following a period of consultation, the final 2012.
The review was conducted by an independent Skilled Person report is due to be published in Q1 2019. under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Redress was paid to certain customers in that sample group.
FCA strategic review of retail banking models On 11 May 2017 the FCA announced a strategic review of retail RBS later agreed with the FCA that it would carry out a wider banking models.
The FCA used the review to understand how these review remediation exercise relating to certain investment, insurance models operate, including how free if in credit banking is paid for and and pension sales from 1 January 2011 to 1 April 2015.
That exercise the impact of changes such as increased use of digital channels and is materially complete.
Phase 2 covering sales in 2010 started in reduced branch usage.
April 2018 and was targeted for completion by the end of 2018, however the deadline has now been extended to April 2019.
On 18 December 2018, the FCA published its final report containing a number of findings, including that personal current accounts are an In addition, RBS agreed with the FCA that it would carry out a important source of competitive advantage for major banks.
Following remediation exercise, for a specific customer segment who were sold the review, the FCA is to continue to monitor retail banking models, a particular structured product.
Redress was paid to certain customers analyse new payments business models and undertake exploratory who took out the structured product.
work to understand certain aspects of SME banking.
RBS provisions in relation to these matters totalled 206 million as at US Swiss tax programme 31 December 2018, of which 144 million had been utilised by that In December 2015, Coutts & Co Ltd. a member of the Group date.
incorporated in Switzerland, entered into a non-prosecution agreement the NPA with the DoJ.
This was entered into as part of the DoJs Packaged accounts programme for Swiss banks, related to its investigations of the role RBS has had dedicated resources in place since 2013 to investigate that Swiss banks played in concealing the assets of US tax payers in and resolve packaged account complaints on an individual basis.
RBS offshore accounts US related accounts.
Coutts & Co Ltd. paid a provisions for this matter totalled 444 million as at 31 December US$78.5 million penalty and acknowledged responsibility for certain 2018.
The FCA conducted a thematic review of packaged bank conduct set forth in a statement of facts accompanying the agreement.
accounts across the UK from October 2014 to April 2016, the results of Under the NPA, which has a term of four years, Coutts & Co Ltd. is which were published in October 2016.
RBS made amendments to its required, among other things, to provide certain information, cooperate sales process and complaints procedures to address the findings from with the DoJs investigations, and commit no U. S. federal offences.
Coutts & Co Ltd. abides by the NPA, the DoJ will not prosecute it for certain tax-related and monetary transaction offences in connection FCA investigation into RBSs compliance with the Money Laundering with US related accounts.
Regulations 2007 On 21 July 2017, the FCA notified RBS that it was undertaking an Since the signing of the NPA in 2015, Coutts & Co Ltd has identified investigation into RBSs compliance with the Money Laundering and disclosed to the DoJ a number of US related accounts that were Regulations 2007 in relation to certain customers.
Following not included in its original submission supporting the NPA.
Coutts & amendment to the scope of the investigation, there are currently two Co Ltd is in discussions with the DoJ regarding these additional areas under review: 1 compliance with Money Laundering accounts and has agreed with the DoJ to undertake additional review Regulations in respect of Money Service Business customers: and 2 work, which is ongoing.
the Suspicious Transactions regime in relation to the events surrounding particular customers.
The investigations in both areas are Enforcement proceedings and investigations in relation to Coutts & Co assessing both criminal and civil culpability.
RBS is cooperating with Ltd the investigations, including responding to several information In February 2017, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority requests from the FCA.
FINMA took enforcement action against Coutts & Co Ltd with regard to failures of money laundering checks and controls on certain client Systematic Anti-Money Laundering Programme assessment In December 2018, the FCA commenced a Systematic Anti-Money accounts that were connected with the Malaysian sovereign wealth fund, 1MDB, and were held with Coutts & Co Ltd. FINMA accordingly Laundering Programme assessment of RBS.
RBS is responding to requests for information from the FCA.
required Coutts & Co Ltd to disgorge profits of CHF 6.5 million.
There are two administrative criminal proceedings pending before the Swiss Payment Protection Insurance PPI Finance Department against two former employees of Coutts & Co Since 2011, RBS has been implementing the FCAs policy statement Ltd.
In addition, the Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS s for the handling of complaints about the mis-selling of PPI Policy supervisory examination of Coutts & Co Ltds Singapore branch Statement 10 12.
In August 2017, the FCAs new rules and guidance revealed breaches of anti-money laundering requirements.
MAS on PPI complaints handling Policy Statement 17 3 came into force.
imposed on Coutts & Co Ltd financial penalties amounting to SGD 2.4 The Policy Statement introduced new so called Plevin rules, under million in December 2016. which customers may be eligible for redress if the bank earned a high 234
