Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2018 1.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES RPC Group Plc the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
On publishing the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of these approved financial statements.
The following principal accounting policies apply to both the Group and Company financial statements.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Group and Companys financial statements.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements, which are presented in sterling, are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration which are stated at their fair value.
In the preparation of the financial statements, comparative amounts have been restated to reflect the finalisation of the provisional acquisition accounting for BPI, Letica, ESE World, Plastiape, Jagtenberg, Synergy, Sanders, Amber and Shenzen Howyecen Automotive Electronic Company and hindsight adjustments have been made as a result.
These adjustments have been reflected in the comparative balance sheet, further details of which can be seen in note 25 of the financial statements.
Key Estimates and Judgements Preparation of the financial statements requires the directors to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of liabilities, assets, incomes and expenses.
Estimates are determined through managements historical knowledge and, where necessary, the knowledge of experts, taking into account the current circumstances that necessitate the estimate.
Estimates are a common feature of accounting processes and as such management have distinguished key estimates as only those that contain a significant risk of a material change to the carrying value of assets or liabilities within the next year.
Management are also required to use judgement in applying their accounting policies.
Management define key judgements as those that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
The key estimates and judgements used in the financial statements, as well as changes to key estimates and judgements are set out in the sections below.
Changes in key estimates and judgements In preparation of the financial statements management have critically assessed the presentation of key estimates and judgements in the light of the most recent guidance.
As a result of this assessment management no longer consider the following estimates to be key: n Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill Management do not believe that at a Cash Generating Unit CGU level the assumptions used in impairment models are sensitive enough or subject to significant uncertainty such that there is a material risk that carrying amounts of intangible and tangible assets exceed their recoverable amounts.
Whilst there is a material amount of goodwill within each CGU, due to the levels of headroom on discounted future cash flows, management do not believe that there is a risk of material change in this estimate between this financial year end and the next.
n Retirement benefit obligation these liabilities are based on assumptions derived from readily available market information, including high-quality bond yield curves.
The assumptions are provided by external actuaries and their application is consistent year on year.
Other assumptions, such as mortality rates, are taken from publically available sources, which are again applied consistently.
As such, management do not view this balance as a key estimate.
n Taxation uncertain tax positions UTPs were previously classified as key estimates, however in the current year the component items within the overall balance are not individually material, nor are any UTPs collectively of a similar enough nature or origin such that a change in assumptions would result in a material change to the overall UTP estimate in the next 12 months.
Estimates Acquisition accounting contingent consideration Contingent consideration, including post-acquisition remuneration, as a result of significant acquisitions in previous years continues to be a significant estimate for the Group.
Contingent consideration is revalued each reporting period according to the latest forecasts of the acquired business based on the terms of the earn-out arrangement.
Where payment is dependent on the recipient remaining in employment, the payment will be accounted for as post-acquisition remuneration as required under IFRS 3 and movements in this balance will be classified as an adjusting item.
Contingent consideration relating to the Ace acquisition is still a significant liability on the balance sheet, as is the combined post-acquisition remuneration for the Ace, Letica, Strata Products, Innocan, Amber and Synergy transactions.
The level of contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration payable is dependent on acquired businesses meeting EBITDA growth targets over the earn-out period.
The earn-out agreements for each of these acquired businesses allow for a maximum earn-out of 100% and a minimum earn-out of 0%, depending on the actual EBITDA growth against the earn-out benchmarks.
Due to the quantum of potential liabilities and the range of possible outcomes, there is a significant risk that differences in actual performance of acquired businesses could necessitate a material change in the values provided for as contingent consideration or post-acquisition remuneration in the financial statements.
Management estimate the range of contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration to be between 11.9m and 53.0m, which represents 6% to 27% of the maximum earn-out.
The earn-out assessment is cumulative over a number of periods and therefore there exists a risk that acquired businesses could have exceptionally strong or weak performance in the next 12 months that could push them toward the maximum or minimum earn-out percentage.
Additionally, at the end of the earn-out agreement management of RPC Group permit the acquired businesses to propose adjustments which have impacted reported results in the assessment of the final earn-out amount, which again could increase the amounts owed.
110 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Judgements Adjusting items The directors believe that presentation of results before adjusting items assists in comparing trends to allow an understanding of business performance and as such this remains a key area of focus for the business.
In determining the classification of certain items as adjusting under Group policy, management exercises significant judgement.
The Group has developed a policy by which items that are not representative of the underlying trading performance of the business are presented separately in the consolidated income statement due to their size or nature.
Management believe that this helps facilitate comparison with prior periods and assess trends in financial performance.
Management see this as a key judgement as a decision has to be made as to which income statement items fall within the criteria and therefore should be shown separately.
To achieve consistency in exercising this judgement, a strict review and approval policy is in place for any items proposed as adjusting at a divisional level.
Further details of the amounts classified as adjusting items can be found in note 4 of the financial statements.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together 'the Group' and the Group's share of the results and equity of its joint venture.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Company has control.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the Groups results from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
All business combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders earnings and equity attributable to third-party shareholders.
Acquisition Accounting Acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
A systematic approach is taken to identify the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, and to measure them at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interests, using appropriate valuation methods and third party valuation specialists where appropriate.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
New Standards and Interpretations The following new standards are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2018 or later and have not yet been adopted by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments The Group will adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for the year ending 31 March 2019.
The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and covers recognition and measurement, impairment, and fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities, as well as changes to general hedge accounting principles.
Management have completed their impact assessment on the effect of this new accounting standard on the Groups consolidated financial statements and have concluded that there will be no material impact.
The focus of managements assessment has been on the new requirements for hedge accounting and the impact of implementing an expected credit loss model for impairment of financial assets.
The Group, in general, sells to established companies with strong credit ratings and has not historically experienced significant levels of bad debts, and so implementation of the expected credit loss model of impairment is not expected to have a significant impact.
The Group has a limited number of hedged positions and has ensured that all current hedge documentation and effectiveness testing has been updated such that it complies with the new standard.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers The Group will adopt IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers for the year ending 31 March 2019.
The standard provides a single principle-based five step model to be applied to all sales contacts.
For periods beginning after 1 January 2018 the single new standard will replace the existing standards covering revenue: IAS 11 Construction contracts, and IAS 18 Revenue.
The Group is in the process of finalising its analysis on the impact of implementing IFRS 15 in advance of reporting under the new standard for the first time in the 2018 Half Year Financial Report.
However, management is in a position to provide details of preliminary findings.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial Statements In order to model the impact of the new standard on the Group, management have completed a thorough contract review across the operating business.
Due to the decentralised nature of the Group, data collection for the contract reviews was conducted within each of the seven divisions by senior finance and sales personnel, under the guidance of Group Finance.
Stage one of the process involved an enhanced scoping exercise to identify contracts with clauses that could lead to different revenue recognition under IFRS 15 and also gain coverage of contract revenue.
Management's existing knowledge of the business allowed them to focus on two key risk areas: contracts with variable consideration and contracts with multiple performance obligations.
Stage two of the review was to assess the impact, if any, that implementing IFRS 15 would have on the revenue recognised from contracts containing clauses relating to the two risk areas identified.
The overall assessment was made by Group Finance, however, external assistance was used to further scrutinise conclusions reached.
Findings from the contract reviews were largely in line with managements expectations.
The Groups core activities involve the production of plastic packaging and non-packaging to order, where customers are invoiced for the units produced.
Therefore the right to consideration from the customer at any point generally corresponds with the value of the goods produced but unpaid for up to that point.
In this scenario IFRS 15 permits the recognition of revenue in line with the value of goods the Group has a right to invoice for, which is in line with how the Group currently recognises revenue for these transactions.
A significant proportion of contracts did contain clauses pertaining to variable consideration, while a smaller, but not insignificant portion of contracts contained multiple performance obligations.
Management reached the following conclusion over these: Variable consideration Contractual clauses that fall within the domain of variable consideration were limited to discounts prospective reductions in price on future sales, rebates retrospective reductions in price on past sales and price downs stepped reduction in price over a fixed period reflective of efficiencies and cost savings the Group will develop over the life of the contract.
Under IFRS 15, where there is a contract with variable consideration, if it is concluded that the contract provides the customer with a material right to a discount at a future date then that discount must be allocated to the performance obligations.
A material right in the context of variable consideration is a price reduction in excess of what any other customer of a similar size could obtain for a similar product.
Rebates and discounts are a feature of the industry, as they are in the majority of high volume businesses.
It was identified that the quantum of the discount or rebate that can be earned by the customer are a small percentage of the overall value of the goods and of a similar level across the Group.
Due to this management have concluded discounts do not constitute a material right, as they could reasonably be obtained by any customer of a similar size entering into a contract for a similar product.
Price down clauses featured in a small number of contracts.
The price reduction is designed to pass on cost efficiencies developed from running a production process for a sustained period of time, and will lead to a consistent margin over the life of the contract.
This has not been deemed to be a material right as another customer entering a contract with the Group for a similar product could expect to receive a similar price to a customer already part way through a price down contract, as the efficiencies have already been developed through the existing contract to be able to produce the goods at the same cost and margin.
Therefore it is not expected that there will be a significant change in revenue recognition in the case of contracts with variable consideration.
Multiple performance obligations In the majority of cases contracts reviewed contained just one performance obligation, the production of plastic packaging and non-packaging.
However, it was identified in some contracts that multiple performance obligations could be present.
These took two forms, the development of a mould followed by production from that mould, and the production of a product followed by labelling or barcoding of that product.
Under IFRS 15, where there are distinct separate performance obligations within a contract it is required that a portion of the transaction price is allocated to each obligation and the revenue for each is only recognised when the conditions of that performance obligation are satisfied.
In the case of the production of a product followed by labelling or barcoding, while there clearly are two performance obligations, due to the fact that there is a combined output the performance obligations have been deemed as not distinct.
As such in these circumstances the transaction price will not be split between performance obligations and revenue will continue to be recognised as it is under the existing standard at an amount equal to the sum that the Group is entitled to invoice for goods produced.
In the case or development of a mould followed by production from that mould there is the added complexity of ownership of the mould, whether it belongs to the customer of the Group, and when ownership transfers, if at all.
Management has analysed each scenario and has concluded that there will be no change to the existing way that revenue is recognised in each of the scenarios.
The reasons for this broadly fall into two categories, either the mould is transferred at the start of the contract, making it two separate performance obligations whereby the sales value of the mould is recognised on completion and sale of the mould and the remaining revenue is recognised on completion of each unit of the product, or the mould is retained by the Group for at least the duration of the contract and the mould being used to produce a combined output cannot be considered a distinct performance obligation from that of the goods produced.
As a result of the contract reviews undertaken, pending formal completion of all detailed work, management believe there will be no significant change to revenue recognition under the new standard and therefore do not expect a material change to the amounts recognised as revenue in the financial statements.
Additional revenue disclosures will be required in the 2019 financial statements in order to comply with the disclosure requirements stipulated under IFRS 15.
112 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 IFRS 16 Leases The Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases for the year ending 31 March 2020.
The standard replaces IAS 17 and removes the operating lease classification, requiring all leases to be recognised under the existing finance lease model.
The transition to IFRS 16 will impact the income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement in the Group's financial statements.
The impact on the balance sheet will be an increase in liabilities and an increase in property, plant and equipment, due to the recognition of both the present value of minimum lease payments and a right to use asset.
The impact on the income statement will be to remove the operating lease rental charge and replace it with depreciation and a finance cost.
The impact on the income statement will vary depending on the ageing profile of leases at transition.
Whereas under the current operating lease model the periodic charge to the income statement is of a consistent value over the life of the lease, under IFRS 16 interest is charged on a reducing liability balance, therefore on transition an older lease profile would likely produce a profit increase, whereas a younger lease profile would have the opposite effect.
There will be no impact on net cash flows.
Management are in the process of a formal impact assessment and data collection exercise in order to quantify and model the impact across the subsidiaries.
The Groups commitments under non-cancellable operating leases is a good indicator of the potential magnitude of any transition adjustment, however management stress that this is only a guide as these figures are undiscounted and may differ significantly to the lease commitments in the first financial period the standard is effective or its comparative period.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost together with any expenses of acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment less any residual value on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold property 50 years or the length of the lease if lower Plant and equipment 5 to 12 years Moulds 3 to 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets Disposal Groups Held for Sale All assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
All assets and liabilities, or disposal groups, are classified as held for sale if their carrying value will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and management is committed to the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In determining the cost of raw materials, consumables and goods for resale, the average purchase price is used.
For finished goods, cost is taken as production cost which includes the cost of the raw materials and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks.
Financial Assets Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, assets held for sale, investment in joint ventures and derivatives.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to sell the asset, and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is made when there is evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: n the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or n the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial Statements Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The Group classify provisions into the following categories.
Termination and restructuring provisions Provisions within this category relate to planned reorganisation programmes.
The provision is created, in accordance with IAS 37, once the approved programme has commenced or, if relevant, when headcount reduction has been communicated to those affected in writing.
Calculation of termination and restructuring obligations are based on: external quotes, contractual terms, the result of due diligence activities, or in absence of specific documentation, managements best estimates of costs required to fulfil obligations.
Contract provisions These provisions are predominantly recognised on acquisition and represent the contract derived values where the commercial terms, at acquisition date, are not in line with market based assumptions for a market participant.
An asset or provision is created for this off-market difference representing an excessively high or low margin.
The asset or provision established is held gross and utilised through the income statement over a calculated duration.
Typically utilisation will be within 12 months of acquisition date, as this is the period of time over which the Group expects to be able to either bring the margins to a level typical for that type of contract or exit the contract.
Where contracts are exited prior to full utilisation the provision is removed.
The value of each off-market contract is calculated based on the acquired business forecast operating profit margin for specific contracts that are deemed to fall outside a reasonable range.
This is compared to an assumed range of operating profit margins for a normal market participant given risks and business models in the relevant sector and the cash flow difference, over a specific time period, is discounted to a net present value where the time value of money is material.
Environmental and health and safety, legal related and other provisions While the provisions within these categories have differing origins, the accounting treatment for each type is consistent across the three categories.
These provisions have either arisen through acquisition, either having previously existed in the acquired businesses balance sheet or created on acquisition as a fair value adjustment, or have arisen through the course of operating existing business.
Accounting for these provisions is in line with IAS 37 and is largely consistent with the accounting treatment noted for the termination and restructuring category.
Investments in Subsidiaries Investments are stated at the fair value of the consideration given when initially acquired adjusted for capital contributions in respect of share options granted toemployees of its subsidiaries and reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Foreign Currencies Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of the transaction.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such transactional exchange differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are recognised through equity.
Movements on other intra-group balances are recognised through the income statement.
The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
On consolidation, results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated to sterling at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such translational exchange differences are taken to equity.
Profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net investments include the accumulated net exchange differences that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
Bank Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums paid on settlement or redemption of direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
114 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The fair values are determined by reference to the prices available from the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Fair value of Level 2 financial instruments is determined using valuation techniques.
Fair value of Level 3 financial instruments are where inputs for the asset or liability are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
Hedges are classified as follows: n Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
n Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
n Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value, due to fluctuations in exchange rates, of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, directly in the cash flow hedge reserve or the translation reserve, respectively, with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness.
When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Where a Group company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Group considers these to be insurance arrangements for them as such.
In this respect, the Group treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Group will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Revenue Revenue represents the invoiced value of goods supplied, excluding value added tax and other sales taxes, and is presented net of any trade discounts issued.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when products and associated equipment are supplied to external customers in line with contractual arrangements.
In these instances, significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to third parties, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Adjusting Items Items which are not representative of the underlying performance of the business due to their materiality or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance in the Consolidated income statement as Adjusting items.
The separate reporting of adjusting items helps facilitate comparison with prior periods and assess trends in financial performance.
The principal events which may give rise to adjusting items include: business restructuring and closure costs, including related asset impairments and losses during the closure period, business acquisition and integration costs, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses and property, goodwill impairments, significant litigation and tax claims, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, consideration on acquisitions that is treated as post-acquisition remuneration, and tax items that are linked to restructuring and other gains or losses, which, in the managements judgement, could distort an assessment of underlying business performance.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences where they can be offset against taxable temporary differences or to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial Statements Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are some transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
Employee Benefits Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The obligation is calculated by external actuaries using the projected unit method.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and recognised in full in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The costs of providing accrued service benefits are charged to operating expenses.
Employee benefit net finance expense is included in net financing costs.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement when they fall due.
Termination benefits The Group recognises the present value of a liability to pay termination benefits when it has a demonstrable commitment to terminating employment before retirement.
In Germany, the Group has contractual obligations under a part-time employment scheme for older employees Altersteilzeit.
In addition to half salary, the employee may receive a fixed incentive payment.
The Group provides for the incentive payment as a termination benefit.
The number of employees who will take up this arrangement is an estimate based on historical experience and any agreed cap on the number of participants.
Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Other employee benefits The Group provides for the present value of its obligations in respect of other long-term employee benefits using actuarial valuations.
These include deferred salaries due to German Altersteilzeit employees and long service awards.
The Group provides for long service awards as they accrue.
The number of employees who will receive long service awards is estimated based on historical experience.
The costs of short-term employee benefits are charged to the income statement when they fall due.
Leasing Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The asset is recorded in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over its estimated useful life or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within payables.
Rentals payable are apportioned between the finance element, which is charged to the income statement, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental charges are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected life of the lease.
Research and Development Expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Where the expenditure relates to the development of a new product or process which is expected to be technically feasible and commercially viable, development costs are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives, to a maximum of five years.
The intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment annually and any impairment is charged to the income statement.
116 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Goodwill Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration given over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
The carrying amount is allocated to CGUs and is tested at least annually for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and cannot be reversed subsequently.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 which has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement in the year of acquisition.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Patents remaining life of patent Product development costs over the shorter of the life of the project or 5 years Computer software and IT systems development costs 4 to 5 years Customer contacts and relationships acquired 5 to 10 years Technology 7 years Brands 10 years The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
Valuation of acquired intangible assets The Group separates acquired intangible assets into the following categories and uses the following techniques and inputs in arriving at the valuation on acquisition.
Inputs are categorised as level 3 unless otherwise stated.
Technology, intellectual property rights IPR, licences and patents An intangible asset is recognised where there is a competitive advantage or access to new markets.
Valuation of these intangible assets is performed in the following ways.
Technology and IPR: where there is a market for a particular technology acquired but a market value is unavailable, fair value will be calculated using a discounted cash flow model over a period of up to seven years, with assumed royalty rates and growth specific to the technology.
Licences: where licences to third parties exist for acquired technology or IPR, assets are created and valued at the discounted future net income stream to the business generated by that licence.
Patents: where there is determined to be a competitive advantage from a formally approved registered product design which is currently producing an income stream, a patent can be valued using a royalty rate and margins that the product can command.
The value is usually calculated over no more than five years, as it has been determined that after this point a competitor could be expected to develop comparable improved products.
In arriving at a valuation, growth is applied and future values discounted.
Brands If there is clear evidence of a brand recognisable to end customers, it will only be recorded where it is a distinctive part of marketing products.
In this scenario, valuation of a brand uses a royalty rate method applied within a discounted cash flow model.
Customer contacts and relationships This represents the access given to an existing customer base by virtue of acquiring a company that already has established relationships with those customers.
The value arises as those customers are more likely to return to the Group and provide a future sources of income.
The Group values customer contacts using an excess earnings model.
The model is based on cash flows from acquired customers discounted, for a period up to 10 years.
An attrition rate per year is used, depending on the historical length of customer relationships, to model the assumption that each year the customer contact retained by the business will reduce.
A growth rate is also applied each year to account for expected sales growth within the acquired business.
The valuation of customer contacts relationships is calculated from the combined cash flows from existing customers over the relevant period.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial Statements Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of the Groups assets, other than inventories, financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 and deferred tax assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Equity-Settled Share-Based Payments The Group operates an employee savings related share option scheme and executive share option schemes.
The fair value of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date using an appropriate option pricing model.
The resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its service and non-market estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable and the charge to the income statement is adjusted accordingly.
Where the Company grants share options to employees of its subsidiaries, the amount equal to that which would otherwise have been charged in the income statement in respect of those options is accounted for as a capital contribution and the Companys cost of investment in its subsidiary is increased accordingly.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs Alongside the statutory measures of performance, management also disclose a number of APMs formerly termed as Non-GAAP measures.
These measures are not defined under IFRS and act to provide comparability of information between reporting periods, where business activities such as acquisitions or restructuring can inhibit the ability of management and a reader of the financial statements to determine the underlying commercial performance of the Group.
APMs are used by the directors and management for performance analysis, planning, reporting and incentive setting purposes and have remained consistent with prior year.
They are used to make decisions and allocate resources based on underlying performance, without volatility arising from non-trading items such as impairment charges, portfolio change transactions or specific non-cash items.
APMs are designed to be used in addition to existing IFRS measures and, as such, are not intended to be a superior substitute to IFRS measurements.
A full glossary of APMs used in the financial statements, including definitions, purpose and reconciliation to IFRS measures, has been included within the Strategic report and can be found on pages 47 to 51.
Related Party Disclosures Transactions between the Group and any related parties which require disclosure under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures are given in note 29.
118 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 2.
OPERATING SEGMENTS The information reported to the Groups Board of Directors, considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance are reported under two segments.
The Group's operating segments have been derived from the structure which formed the basis of monthly management reporting.
There has been aggregation of the Group's divisions or strategic business units, where there are further operational differences, into the Packaging segment due to certain common characteristics.
This aggregation has been determined based on market of operation mostly European, manufacturing or production techniques, the nature of products, profit margins earned and inputs into the production cycle.
Typically as packaging customers are global B2B and served by multiple operating segments they are considered to be similar for the purposes of segment reporting.
The remaining divisions, or where appropriate strategic business units, have been aggregated into the Non-packaging segment.
Segment Revenues and Results The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies in note 1.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment with an allocation of central items.
Pricing of inter-segment revenue is on an arms length basis.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment: Packaging Non-packaging Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Revenue External sales 3,158.6 2,365.3 589.1 381.9 3,747.7 2,747.2 Inter-segment sales 1.7 1.0 18.3 15.8 Total revenue 3,160.3 2,366.3 607.4 397.7 Segmental results Adjusted operating profit 349.0 246.2 76.0 62.0 425.0 308.2 Adjusting items in operating profit see note 4 69.3 116.2 Net financing costs 39.8 38.0 Share of profit from investment accounted for under the equity method 0.7 0.7 Profit before taxation 316.6 154.7 Taxation 62.8 22.7 Profit after taxation 253.8 132.0 Segment assets 3,649.4 3,614.2 963.7 947.1 4,613.1 4,561.3 Unallocated assets 164.0 200.9 Assets held for sale note 17 6.3 5.6 Total assets 4,783.4 4,767.8 Total non-current assets 3,377.5 3,379.2 Total current assets 1,405.9 1,388.6 Total assets 4,783.4 4,767.8 Segment net operating assets 1,324.1 1,228.6 234.9 227.6 1,559.0 1,456.2 Unallocated net operating assets 38.3 21.5 Total net operating assets 1,597.3 1,477.7 Property, plant and equipment 1,357.6 1,264.9 Inventories 524.9 480.2 Trade and other receivables 663.6 632.3 Trade and other payables 948.8 899.7 Total net operating assets 1,597.3 1,477.7 Segment assets and segment net operating assets have been restated for hindsight review of prior year acquisitions as required by IFRS 3, see note 25 for further details.
Segment assets exclude deferred tax assets, current tax assets, derivatives and other assets generated through centre activities that cannot be allocated to segments.
These are reported centrally as unallocated assets.
All assets and liabilities within segment NOA exclude the impact of fixed asset revaluation adjustments which are reported centrally as unallocated NOA.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial Statements Packaging Non-packaging Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m m m Depreciation and amortisation 177.8 138.8 38.2 25.4 216.0 164.2 Impairment charge 12.3 12.3 Geographical Information The Groups revenue and non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets are divided into the following geographical areas: 2018 UK Germany France Other Mainland Europe North America Rest of World Total m m m m m m m m External sales 884.9 581.2 385.6 1,065.2 2,032.0 492.8 338.0 3,747.7 Non-current assets 638.7 284.8 293.0 1,101.4 1,679.2 471.5 472.0 3,261.4 Goodwill 1,575.2 Other intangible assets 324.2 Property, plant and equipment 1,357.6 Investment accounted for under the equity method 4.4 Non-current assets 3,261.4 2017 restated UK Germany France Other Mainland Europe North America Rest of World Total m m m m m m m m External sales 736.1 488.2 313.9 825.1 1,627.2 165.5 218.4 2,747.2 Non-current assets 648.0 273.5 290.2 1,075.2 1,638.9 510.9 426.7 3,224.5 Goodwill 1,578.7 Other intangible assets 376.7 Property, plant and equipment 1,264.9 Investment accounted for under the equity method 4.2 Non-current assets 3,224.5 Revenues from external customers have been identified on the basis of origin and non-current assets on their physical location.
Major Customers No single customer accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue in either 2018 or 2017.
120 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 3.
OPERATING COSTS 2018 2017 m m Raw material and consumables 1,884.6 1,359.8 Own work capitalised 3.1 3.1 Changes in stock of finished goods and goods for resale 24.3 22.9 Other external charges 348.5 289.8 Carriage 156.2 107.3 Staff costs note 5 816.5 650.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 12 161.7 129.8 Amortisation of intangible assets note 11 54.3 34.4 Impairment losses 12.3 Other operating income 2.4 2.3 3,392.0 2,555.2 2018 2017 m m Other external charges include the following: Operating lease rentals: Hire of plant and machinery 15.3 10.9 Other operating leases 8.5 4.9 Research and development 5.6 5.0 Foreign exchange losses gains 0.3 1.3 Other operating income includes: Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 Gain loss on disposal of business 0.5 1.9 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the parent company 0.2 0.1 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries 2.7 3.1 Total audit fees payable to the Group's auditor 2.9 3.2 audit related assurance services 0.1 corporate finance services 0.1 0.4 other non-audit services 0.1 0.3 other assurance services 0.5 Total fees for other services 0.2 1.3 3.1 4.5 Fees payable to PwC LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements contain this disclosure on a Group basis.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial Statements 4.
ADJUSTING ITEMS 2018 2017 m m Adjusting items Acquisition costs 3.9 18.9 Major integration programme costs 23.8 56.1 Integration related impairment loss on property, plant and equipment and assets held for sale 10.7 Other restructuring costs 11.2 6.4 Post-acquisition remuneration charge contingent on earn-out targets note 22 9.2 11.8 Adjustments to contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration note 22 20.7 23.0 Amortisation - acquired intangible assets note 11 50.7 31.0 Acquisition, integration and related restructuring costs 78.1 111.9 Insurance proceeds 11.0 Other adjusting items 2.2 4.3 Total adjusting items in operating costs 69.3 116.2 Adjusting items in net financing costs note 6 3.5 15.2 Adjusting taxation Recognition of losses from previous acquisitions 19.2 Adjustment in relation to US Tax Reforms 12.9 Tax effect of adjusting items 17.0 23.2 Total adjusting items in taxation note 7 29.9 42.4 Acquisition costs include transactional expenses relating to the acquisition of Astrapak, which completed in June 2017, and Nordfolien, which completed after the year end.
The major integration programme of integrating the Promens, GCS and BPI businesses into the RPC organisation is now complete, with the 23.8m incurred in the year being the final costs.
Other restructuring costs include expenses related to the integration of other acquisitions including ESE World and Plastiape, costs in respect of the restructure of the Belgian footprint following the fire at Eke, Belgium and fees related to aborted acquisitions.
The Group continues to accrue post-acquisition remuneration due to former shareholders of Ace, Letica, Innocan, Synergy, Amber and Strata Products who must remain as employees of the Group for the duration of the earn-out period to qualify for payment.
This year a further write back to contingent amounts of 20.7m has been made to reflect the current view of the final payment that will be made in respect of the Ace and Letica acquisitions.
Insurance proceeds have been recognised and received for the Eke fire.
Adjusting finance costs are described in note 6.
Adjusting taxation includes the impact of the US Tax Reforms of 12.9m and the tax effect of other adjusting items.
122 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 5.
STAFF COSTS The monthly average number of personnel including executive directors employed by the Group during the year was: 2018 2017 Number Number Production 20,257 16,826 Selling 1,150 938 Administration 2,888 2,365 24,295 20,129 Staff costs for the above personnel were: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 670.9 528.6 Redundancy costs 4.7 22.4 Termination benefits 0.3 0.4 Social security costs 111.7 82.1 Share-based payments note 24 6.8 4.5 Pension costs defined contribution plans 16.0 8.9 Pension costs defined benefit plans note 28 6.1 3.2 816.5 650.1 The Company had no employees.
Emoluments of the Directors Disclosures of directors emoluments, share options and pension benefits are given in the Remuneration report.
FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 2018 2017 m m Interest receivable on cash at bank 1.3 1.6 Fair value adjustment to borrowings designated in a fair value hedge relationship 2.2 Mark-to-market gain on foreign currency hedging instruments 9.9 8.8 Total financial income 11.2 12.6 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 26.8 15.9 Interest payable on US private placement notes 6.8 6.8 Fair value adjustment to borrowings designated in a fair value hedge relationship 9.9 10.5 Other interest payable and similar charges 4.0 2.2 Total financial expenses 47.5 35.4 Defined benefit pension schemes finance expense note 28 5.7 4.9 Gain loss on unhedged financial instruments 0.1 0.2 Unwind of discount and foreign exchange movement on contingent consideration 2.1 10.1 Adjusting financing costs 3.5 15.2 Net financing costs 39.8 38.0 Unwind of discount and foreign exchange movement on contingent consideration relates to the Ace acquisition.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial Statements 7.
TAXATION 2018 2017 m m United Kingdom corporation tax at 19% 2017: 20% : Current year 19.3 2.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 3.3 Overseas taxation: Current year 46.1 27.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 2.5 Total current tax 71.6 28.4 Deferred tax note 23 : United Kingdom: Current year 1.3 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.3 0.8 Overseas: Current year 9.7 13.3 Recognition of losses from previous acquisitions 19.2 Adjustment in relation to US Tax Reforms rate change 12.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 2.4 Total deferred tax 8.8 5.7 Total tax expense in the Consolidated income statement 62.8 22.7 Tax Reconciliation 2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation 316.6 154.7 Current tax at 19% 2017: 20% 60.2 31.0 Non-deductible items for tax purposes 1.6 7.6 Local tax incentives 1.8 1.2 Net losses not utilised provided 0.4 3.5 Adjustments to contingent consideration 2.2 3.3 Tax rate differential 19.0 8.3 Adjustment in relation to US Tax Reforms 12.9 Recognition of losses from previous acquisitions 19.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 4.0 Total tax expense in the Consolidated income statement 62.8 22.7 The deferred tax on temporary differences at 31 March 2017 and 2018 has been calculated based on the tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 17% effective from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015 and 6 September 2016 respectively.
A reduction in the US federal tax rate to 21% was substantively enacted on 22 December 2017.
Reductions to the Luxembourg tax rate including the solidarity surcharge and municipal business tax from 29.22% to 27.08% effective from 1 January 2017 and 26.01% effective from 1 April 2017 were substantively enacted on 27 December 2016.
On 29 March 2017, the UK Government invoked Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon, notifying the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the European Union the EU.
There is an initial two year timeframe for the UK and EU to reach an agreement on the withdrawal and the future UK and EU relationship although this timeframe is expected to be extended to 31 December 2020.
At this stage, there is significant uncertainty about the withdrawal process, its timeframe, and the outcome of the negotiations about the future arrangements between the UK and the EU.
As a result, there is significant uncertainty as to the period for which the existing EU laws for member states will continue to apply to the UK and which laws will apply to the UK after an exit.
Following the negotiations between the UK and the EU, the UKs tax status may change and this may impact the Group.
However, at this stage the level of uncertainty is such that it is impossible to determine if, how and when that tax status will change.
There is inherent uncertainty surrounding the UKs exit from the EU and the impact on tax laws and rates.
The directors have assessed and have not identified any significant matters impacting the financial statements.
The adjustment in relation to US Tax Reform rate change 12.9m reflects a non-cash credit resulting from the US Tax Reforms and revaluation of US related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The prior year recognition of losses from previous acquisitions 19.2m arose due to future taxable profit being available to access historic tax losses following restructuring which arose in the year.
124 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Included within current tax liabilities is 26.4m 2017: 30.6m in respect of uncertain tax positions.
The likely timing of settlement is over one to five years although it is very difficult to predict with any accuracy due to the complex issues involved and inherent uncertainties in agreeing such balances in the various jurisdictions that the Group operates.
DIVIDENDS 2018 2017 m m Dividends on ordinary shares: Final for 2015 16 paid of 11.5p per share 40.6 Interim for 2016 17 paid of 6.1p per share 21.5 Final for 2016 17 paid of 17.9p per share 73.9 Interim for 2017 18 paid of 7.8p per share 31.9 105.8 62.1 The final dividend for 2015 16 and the interim dividend for 2016 17 have been restated for the bonus element of the rights issue that took place on 27 February 2017.
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 20.2p per share with an estimated total cost of 82.4m has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2018.
RPC has a progressive dividend policy, which aims to target a dividend cover of 2.5x adjusted earnings through the cycle.
PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income statement has not been included in these financial statements.
The profit after taxation for the Company was 5.6m 2017: 67.5m.
This includes intercompany dividends received of nil 2017: 89.9m.
All of the retained earnings of the Company of 109.4m 2017: 289.7m are considered to be distributable.
Subsequent to the year end, on 16 May 2018, RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited, a direct subsidiary of the Company, declared an interim dividend of 251.2m.
The Company will recognise the dividend within retained earnings which will increase distributable reserves by this amount.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share has been computed using profit after taxation for the year attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share deducts total adjusting items from profit after taxation attributable to equity shareholders.
Basic and adjusted earnings per share use the same weighted average number of shares which excludes shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy future awards in respect of incentive arrangements.
2018 2017 Profit after taxation attributable to equity shareholders m 253.4 132.0 Total adjusting items note 4 m 42.9 89.0 Profit used in adjusted basic earnings per share m 296.3 221.0 Weighted average number of shares 411,526,669 355,501,884 Basic earnings per share 61.6p 37.1p Adjusted basic earnings per share 72.0p 62.2p The directors believe that the presentation of adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share assists with an understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share is basic earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the year.
2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares basic 411,526,669 355,501,884 Effect of share options in issue 2,066,687 3,180,775 Weighted average number of shares diluted 413,593,356 358,682,659 Diluted earnings per share 61.3p 36.8p Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Financial Statements 11.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS a Goodwill 2017 2018 restated m m Cost and net book value At 1 April 1,578.7 825.1 Acquisitions 26.6 683.2 Write-back of acquired negative goodwill 0.6 Exchange differences 30.1 69.8 At 31 March 1,575.2 1,578.7 Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that acquisition.
The Group tests for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The CGUs have been determined at a divisional level within the Group and the carrying value of goodwill at 31 March is allocated as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m Bramlage 460.3 552.7 Bebo 17.3 16.8 Superfos 357.5 354.1 Ace 172.1 196.8 Promens 253.3 255.2 bpi 206.1 203.1 M&H 108.6 1,575.2 1,578.7 During the year M&H was created as a new division and separate CGU.
Associated goodwill was transferred to the M&H division.
The majority of sites transferred came from the Bramlage CGU, with the remainder coming from the Promens CGU.
The directors determined that no impairment was required as the recoverable amounts were in excess of the carrying value.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from their value in use.
The cash flow projections used in these calculations cover a three year period based on the 2018 19 budget and the outline plans for 2019 20 and 2020 21 approved by the Board together with terminal values which assume zero growth, with the exception of Ace, based in China, which assumes a 4% terminal growth.
The key assumptions used in the recoverable amount calculations include: i Sales.
Forecasts are based on divisional level analysis of sales, markets, competitors and prices for the budget period.
Consideration is given to past experience, knowledge of future contracts and expectations of future potential changes in the markets.
ii Polymer and electricity costs.
Forecasts for polymer costs are based on prices at the time the budget is prepared.
Forecasts for electricity costs are based on contractual arrangements taking into account supply and demand factors.
A pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2017: 10% was used to discount the expected cash flows of most CGUs.
As each CGU is considered to have similar risks the same discount rate has been applied, with the exception of Ace where a 12% rate has been used.
The Groups impairment review is sensitive to a change in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rate and profitability levels.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, an increase in the discount rate to 14% or a reduction in profitability of 29% would be required to indicate a potential impairment in one or more of the CGUs.
Management does not view that this is a reasonable possibility.
126 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 b Other Intangible Assets Acquired Other intangible assets intangible assets Total m m m Cost At 1 April 2016 174.0 19.6 193.6 Additions internally developed 5.0 5.0 Acquisitions restated 229.7 229.7 Exchange differences 15.2 3.2 18.4 At 31 March 2017 418.9 27.8 446.7 At 1 April 2017 418.9 27.8 446.7 Additions internally developed 4.6 4.6 Acquisitions 1.4 1.4 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences 5.2 3.0 8.2 At 31 March 2018 415.1 28.9 444.0 Amortisation At 1 April 2016 18.1 10.0 28.1 Charge for the year 31.0 3.4 34.4 Impairment charge 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 2.4 4.9 7.3 At 31 March 2017 51.5 18.5 70.0 At 1 April 2017 51.5 18.5 70.0 Charge for the year 50.7 3.6 54.3 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 1.8 2.4 4.2 At 31 March 2018 100.4 19.4 119.8 Net book value at 31 March 2018 314.7 9.5 324.2 Net book value at 31 March 2017 367.4 9.3 376.7 The Company had no intangible assets at either year end.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Financial Statements 12.
Plant, equipment, moulds and vehicles contains work in progress of 107.5m 2017: 69.7m, which is not depreciated until ready for use.
The Company had no property, plant and equipment at either year end.
The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 19 are secured against the leased assets, which have a carrying value at 31 March 2018 of 16.8m 2017: 10.0m.
128 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 13.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES On 11 January 2018 the Company subscribed for 100% of the share capital of RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited.
As part of the transaction the Company transferred its investments in Rigid Plastic Containers Holdings Limited and British Polythene Industries Limited to RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited, as well as creating a loan with RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited of 477m.
At 31 March 2018 RPC Group Plc owns 100% of RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited and 10% of RPC Packaging Holdings Limited share capital directly.
RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited indirectly owns 100% of the share capital of RPC Containers Limited and the remaining 90% of the share capital of RPC Packaging Holdings Limited.
The nature of the business carried on by RPC Containers Limited is the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic packaging.
RPC Packaging Holdings Limited is a holding company through which the shares in subsidiaries in mainland Europe and the USA are owned.
These subsidiaries are principally involved in the manufacture and sale of both plastic packaging and non-packaging and are listed on pages 153 to 158.
Company 2018 2017 m m At 1 April 1,346.9 886.3 Subscription of shares in RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited 757.6 Transfer of investment in Rigid Plastic Containers Holdings Limited to fellow Group company 960.2 Transfer of investment in British Polythene Industries Limited to fellow Group company 274.5 Cost of share options note 24 3.3 2.4 Subscription for additional shares in RPC Packaging Holdings Limited 18.4 Subscription for additional shares in Rigid Plastic Containers Holdings Limited 165.3 Acquisition of British Polythene Industries Limited 274.5 At 31 March 873.1 1,346.9 British Polythene Industries Limited was formerly known as British Polythene Industries Plc.
INVESTMENT ACCOUNTED FOR UNDER THE EQUITY METHOD The Group has a 46% share in Galion, a joint venture with an injection moulding business based in Tunisia.
The carrying value of the investment of 4.4m 2017: 4.2m represents the Groups share in Galions net assets.
INVENTORIES The amounts attributable to the different categories are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Raw materials and consumables 239.8 223.1 Finished goods and goods for resale 285.1 257.1 524.9 480.2 The Company had no inventories at either year end.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Group Company 2017 2018 restated 2018 2017 m m m m Trade receivables 574.9 546.6 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,570.5 1,975.8 Other receivables 50.6 51.8 11.4 10.0 Prepayments and accrued income 38.1 33.9 663.6 632.3 2,581.9 1,985.8 All receivables due from Group undertakings have been classified as due within one year as they are payable on demand.
Within other receivables are contract assets created on acquisition of 0.2m 2017: 5.5m.
Utilisation of these assets during the year amounted to 5.0m 2017: 8.5m.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Financial Statements Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 m m Euro 280.4 261.0 Sterling 120.8 133.2 Others 173.7 152.4 574.9 546.6 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing, on normal commercial terms of credit and are shown net of any provision required to reflect the estimated recoverable value.
The Group does not use invoice discounting as a material funding method.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m As at 1 April 20.9 12.6 Charge for the year 4.3 6.1 Amounts written off 4.1 2.5 Unused amounts reversed 4.7 0.9 Acquisitions 0.3 5.5 Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 At 31 March 16.9 20.9 As at 31 March 2018, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Neither past due Less than More than Total nor impaired 30 days 3160 days 60 days m m m m m 31 March 2018 574.9 479.3 58.9 22.4 14.3 31 March 2017 restated 546.6 456.5 57.2 22.8 10.1 The Group uses a variety of indicators to assess the credit worthiness of its customers and recoverability of amounts due.
These include using credit scoring to assess whether a customer should be accepted.
Subsequently, formal reviews are undertaken using credit scores or other relevant data to determine whether the carrying value of the receivables have become impaired.
At some sites, a formal review process is undertaken annually, irrespective of the factors that may impact on specific customer balances.
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE 2018 2017 m m Buildings classified as held for sale 6.3 5.6 The assets held for sale at 31 March 2018 relate to properties at Manuplastics, United Kingdom and Blyes, France.
Assets previously classified as held for sale at 31 March 2017 relating to properties at Kerkrade, Netherlands, and Pulheim, Germany were sold during the year.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Group Company 2017 2018 restated 2018 2017 m m m m Bank loans note 20 102.5 5.9 95.9 Bank overdrafts note 20 61.6 83.2 26.6 33.0 Finance leases note 20 3.6 4.1 167.7 93.2 122.5 33.0 Payments received on account 44.4 41.1 Trade payables 624.7 600.5 0.2 3.6 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 657.7 378.9 Other payables 166.7 153.5 Accruals 113.0 104.6 5.9 10.1 948.8 899.7 663.8 392.6 All payables due to Group undertakings have been classified as due within one year as they are payable on demand.
130 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 19.
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Bank loans and other borrowings note 20 1,158.4 1,249.8 1,138.6 1,228.4 Finance leases note 20 16.2 9.1 Fair value adjustment to borrowings note 20 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.7 1,174.4 1,259.6 1,138.4 1,229.1 The maturity of current and non-current bank loans and other borrowings including finance leases, but excluding the fair value adjustment to borrowings is set out below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Repayable as follows: In one year or less 106.1 10.0 95.9 Between one and two years 668.6 108.7 662.0 103.6 Between two and five years 496.8 1,137.4 476.6 1,125.5 Greater than five years 9.2 12.8 1,280.7 1,268.9 1,234.5 1,229.1 The Group's debt facilities comprised: i a multi-currency revolving credit facility of up to 870m at normal commercial interest rates falling due on 30 April 2020: ii a multi-currency revolving credit facility of up to 450m at normal commercial interest rates falling due on 24 June 2019: iii a term loan of $750m expiring on 30 July 2018, with the option to extend to 30 January 2020.
It is the Group's intention to exercise this option: iv US private placement notes of $92m and 35m expiring on 15 December 2018: v US private placement notes of $124m and 25m expiring on 15 December 2021: vi uncommitted overdraft facilities of 26.5m, 93.9m and other smaller local facilities: and vii mortgages secured on manufacturing facilities totalling 9.1m as at 31 March 2018 2017: 12.6m.
The currency and interest rate profile of the Groups net debt, after taking account of the impact of the fair value adjustment to borrowings interest rate swaps but excluding the fair value adjustment to borrowings, is as follows: Fixed rate Floating rate Cash overdraft Total Fixed rate Floating rate Cash overdraft Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Sterling 0.8 356.6 12.7 344.7 1.2 223.0 44.6 179.6 Euro 78.9 140.8 23.7 196.0 82.2 166.1 39.8 208.5 US dollar 78.6 610.0 34.6 654.0 92.8 685.0 40.7 737.1 Other 11.4 3.6 53.9 38.9 7.1 11.5 57.9 39.3 169.7 1,111.0 124.9 1,155.8 183.3 1,085.6 183.0 1,085.9 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 Financial Statements 20.
GROUP CASH FLOW RECONCILIATIONS 2018 2017 Notes m m a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations Operating profit 355.7 192.0 Adjustments for: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4 50.7 31.0 Amortisation of other intangible assets 11 3.6 3.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 161.7 129.8 Charge for other adjusting items in operating profit 4 18.6 85.2 Adjusted EBITDA 590.3 441.4 Share-based payment expense 24 6.8 4.5 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 Pension deficit payments in excess of income statement charge 6.9 4.8 Movement in provisions and liabilities 47.1 55.6 Movement in inventories 39.3 55.7 Movement in receivables 29.5 0.7 Movement in payables 46.7 83.5 Adjusted operating cash flows 520.5 414.0 Net payment in respect of adjusting items 36.3 81.1 Cash generated from operations 484.2 332.9 b Change in net debt Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 54.7 85.5 Net movement in borrowings 46.6 359.2 Net debt acquired 15.0 3.5 Movement in derivative instruments 20.3 8.0 Exchange differences 46.5 35.9 Movement in net debt in the year 90.1 305.1 Net debt at the beginning of the year 1,049.1 744.0 Net debt at the end of the year 1,139.2 1,049.1 c Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents 186.5 266.2 Overdrafts due within one year 61.6 83.2 Finance leases due within one year 3.6 4.1 Bank loans due within one year 102.5 5.9 Finance leases due greater than one year 16.2 9.1 Bank loans due greater than one year 1,158.2 1,250.5 Less: Fair value adjustment to borrowings 0.2 0.7 Derivative financial instruments: assets 18.6 39.1 Derivative financial instruments: liabilities 2.0 2.3 Net debt at the end of the year 1,139.2 1,049.1 The 'movement in provisions and liabilities' includes a net 27.0m 2017: 39.4m in relation to the utilisation of contract assets and provisions.
This consists of asset utilisation of 5.0m 2017: 8.5m, provision utilisation of 32.0m 2017: 50.2m and other provision movements of nil 2017: 2.3m.
132 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 21.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out below: Derivatives Assets at fair Loans and used for value through Available receivables hedging profit and loss for sale Total m m m m m March 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 186.5 186.5 Trade and other receivables 663.6 663.6 Investment accounted for under the equity method 4.4 4.4 Assets held for sale 6.3 6.3 Cross currency interest rate swaps 17.1 17.1 Foreign currency forwards 1.5 1.5 Other derivatives 0.8 0.8 Total financial assets 850.1 19.4 4.4 6.3 880.2 Derivatives Other financial used for liabilities at hedging amortised cost Total m m m Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 948.8 948.8 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 167.7 167.7 Medium and long-term borrowings 1,174.4 1,174.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.0 2.0 Other derivatives 0.5 0.5 Total financial liabilities 2.5 2,290.9 2,293.4 Derivatives Assets at fair Loans and used for value through Available receivables hedging profit and loss for sale Total m m m m m March 2017 restated Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 266.2 266.2 Trade and other receivables 632.3 632.3 Investment accounted for under the equity method 4.2 4.2 Assets held for sale 5.6 5.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps 39.0 39.0 Foreign currency forwards 1.0 1.0 Total financial assets 898.5 40.0 4.2 5.6 948.3 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total m m m Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 899.7 899.7 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 93.2 93.2 Medium and long-term borrowings 1,259.6 1,259.6 Other derivatives 3.0 3.0 Total financial liabilities 3.0 2,252.5 2,255.5 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 Financial Statements The financial derivatives in the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018 comprise the following: Group 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net m m m m m m Cross currency interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 8.4 8.4 19.3 19.3 Cross currency interest rate swaps fair value hedge 8.7 8.7 18.6 18.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps net investment hedge 2.0 2.0 1.1 1.1 Foreign currency forwards cash flow hedge 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 Foreign currency forwards net investment hedge 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.3 Other derivatives not hedge accounted 0.8 0.5 0.3 0.7 0.7 19.4 2.5 16.9 40.0 3.0 37.0 Company 2018 2017 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net m m m m m m Cross currency interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 8.4 8.4 19.3 19.3 Cross currency interest rate swaps fair value hedge 6.7 6.7 19.7 19.7 Foreign currency forwards cash flow hedge 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0 Foreign currency forwards fair value hedge 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.3 16.6 16.6 40.0 2.3 37.7 At the year end the Group had in place: i 10 cross currency interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing interest rate and exchange rate risk on the US private placement USPP notes that were issued in 2011.
These have been partitioned into separate elements and have been accounted for as 10 net investment hedges relating to GBP:EUR currency risk, 5 fair value hedges covering interest rate and currency exposure and 10 cash flow hedges.
ii 13 foreign currency forwards for the purpose of managing exchange rate risk on the $750m term loan.
These have been partitioned into separate elements and have been accounted for as 13 net investment hedges relating to GBP:EUR currency risk, and 13 cash flow hedges.
iii 3 Australian Dollar forwards and 8 South African Rand forwards for the purpose of managing the retranslation risk on the Groups Australian Dollar and South African Rand assets.
These are accounted for as net investment hedges.
i Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges are in place to manage interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk in relation to $100m of fixed rate debt, as well as the foreign exchange risk in relation to the fixed GBP margin payable on an additional $100m of external debt.
At the balance sheet date, the fair value of USD to GBP cross currency interest rate swaps taken out to manage this risk was 8.4m 2017: 19.3m.
In the year, 9.3m 2017: 10.5m was recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve to offset FX movements on retranslation of the $100m fixed rate debt.
The hedge reserve will be recycled to the income statement to offset foreign exchange movements on retranslation and repayment in 2018 and 2021.
On 1 February 2017 the Group entered into 7 forward contracts to purchase a total ZAR700m in order to hedge the consideration for the announced acquisition of Astrapak.
At the 31 March 2017 these forwards were held at a value of 1.0m and were included within a cash flow hedge relationship.
During the year these forward contracts were executed as part of the Astrapak acquisition and the amounts remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve were recycled to the balance sheet.
On 10 March 2017 the Group entered into 13 forward currency contracts to purchase a total of $250m in exchange for a fixed amount of EUR, in order to hedge a percentage of USD denominated debt.
The USD to GBP element of these contracts is accounted for as a cash flow hedge.
At 31 March 2018 these contracts have a fair value of 0.8m 2017: 6.3 m. A total of 9.2m 2017: 2.5m has been recycled from the cash flow hedge reserve to offset foreign exchange movements on the retranslation of USD denominated debt.
No ineffectiveness was noted on cash flow hedges during the year 2017: none.
ii Fair value hedges Fair value hedges are in place to manage interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk in relation to an additional $100m of floating rate debt.
At the balance sheet date, the fair value of USD to GBP cross currency interest rate swaps taken out to manage this risk was 8.7m 2017: 18.6m.
In the year, a movement in fair value of 14.3m 2017: 8.1 m was noted on the hedged item.
No ineffectiveness was noted on fair value hedges during the year 2017: none.
134 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 iii Net investment hedges Net investment hedges are in place to manage foreign exchange rate risk on the retranslation of euro and US dollar denominated subsidiaries.
The Group has designated 10 GBP to EUR cross currency interest rate swaps and 13 GBP to EUR foreign currency forwards as net investment hedges, which have a fair value at the balance sheet date of 2.0 m 2017: 1.1m and 0.7m 2017: 4.0m.
Additionally, external debt of $16m and 60m is also designated as a hedging instrument in hedge relationships.
No ineffectiveness was noted on net investment hedges during the year 2017: none.
Cross currency interest rate swaps included within net investment hedges at a consolidated level are included within fair value hedges within the Company accounts.
No ineffectiveness 2017: none was noted on these fair value hedges within the year.
Other smaller foreign exchange contracts are used to manage the Group's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.
Financial Risk Management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments and external borrowings to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
The Groups policies and the risks associated with derivatives and financial instruments are as follows: a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will affect the Groups net income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within parameters that are deemed to be acceptable, while optimising return.
Generally, the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedging arrangements designed to manage a proportion of the Groups overall exposure.
The Group does not actively engage in trading of financial instruments for speculative purposes.
b Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain a balanced position in respect of its fixed and floating borrowings, using derivative instruments where relevant.
The interest rate profile of the Groups net debt is shown in note 19.
With respect to the $216m USPP notes issued in December 2011, $100m was converted from fixed US dollar to floating GBP and $100m was converted from fixed US dollar to fixed GBP, through the use of ten cross currency interest rate swaps: three of these swaps totalling $92m expire in December 2018 with the remaining two, totalling $108m, expiring in December 2021.
The remaining USPP balance of $16m and notes of 60m are not swapped and therefore pay interest at fixed US dollar and fixed euro interest rates.
An increase of 1% in the interest rate charged during the year on floating rate borrowings not fixed by interest rate swaps would have reduced profit before tax by approximately 12.2m 2017: 8.7m before accounting for exchange differences, and would reduce net equity by approximately 9.3m 2017: 6.7m.
2018 2017 Sterling Euro US dollar Sterling Euro US dollar % % % % % % Fixed interest rate 3.23.9 1.213.2 4.24.8 3.23.9 1.111.2 4.24.8 Floating rate interest margin above: Euribor n a 0.34.5 n a n a 0.84.5 n a Libor 1.11.8 n a 1.51.8 1.12.5 n a 0.82.5 Interest received on cash balances is at normal commercial floating rates.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 Financial Statements c Liquidity risk The Group monitors and reviews its liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
The maturity profile of the Groups undrawn borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at 31 March 2018, but excluding overdrafts, is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Maturity date Expiring in one year 230.8 117.6 Expiring in one to two years 262.7 601.3 Expiring in more than two years 510.5 254.6 1,004.0 973.5 The maturity of bank loans is set out in note 19.
In order to improve liquidity and ensure continuity of funding, the Group has a credit agreement with eight recognised international banks providing a 870m multicurrency revolving credit facility, maturing in April 2020.
In addition the Group also has a 450m multi-currency revolving credit facility, maturing in June 2019, and a $750m term loan with seven banks expiring in July 2018, with the option to extend to 30 January 2020.
During 2011 the Group issued $92m and 35m USPP notes expiring in December 2018 and $124m and 25m USPP notes expiring in December 2021.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through additional overdraft facilities.
Whilst the Group holds funds in many countries around the world to support treasury management and liquidity needs for operating entities, access to this cash is not restricted.
The table below analyses the Groups contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to non-derivative financial liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments are included in the analysis if their contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows.
Within 1 year Between Between After or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m March 2018 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 948.8 948.8 Borrowings: Repayment of principal 106.1 668.6 496.8 9.2 1,280.7 Expected future interest payments 33.5 27.3 10.5 0.1 71.4 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 1,088.4 695.9 507.3 9.3 2,300.9 Derivative financial instruments Cross-currency interest rate swaps 14.4 5.5 16.5 36.4 Other derivatives 0.8 1.4 2.2 Total 1,073.2 690.4 489.4 9.3 2,262.3 March 2017 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables restated 899.7 899.7 Borrowings: Repayment of principal 10.0 108.7 1,137.4 12.8 1,268.9 Expected future interest payments 28.5 27.1 31.9 1.7 89.2 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 938.2 135.8 1,169.3 14.5 2,257.8 Derivative financial instruments Cross-currency interest rate swaps 3.9 21.7 28.5 54.1 Other derivatives 2.3 0.7 3.0 Total 936.6 114.8 1,140.8 14.5 2,206.7 136 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 d Foreign currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to protect the Groups balance sheet and income statement from the adverse effect of changes in the exchange rate relating to both transactional and translational risk.
Exposure to foreign currency exchange risks is minimised by trading in the subsidiaries local currencies wherever possible and by the use of forward exchange contracts as appropriate.
Of the Groups net assets, 64% 2017: 70% before borrowings are in non sterling currencies, 36% 2017: 41% of which are denominated in euros.
In December 2011 the Company issued $216m and 60m fixed rate USPP notes.
In order to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange exposure, 10 cross currency interest swaps were taken out totalling $200m.
In order to manage the foreign exchange rate risk on payment of interest and principal balances, the debt is designated within cash flow and fair value hedges.
The remaining $16m and 60m of the USPP notes was designated within Net Investment hedge relationships.
Additionally, ten GBP to EUR cross currency interest rate swaps were designated within Net Investment hedges to manage translation risk in relation to the assets of subsidiaries denominated in non-sterling currencies.
The exchange gains or losses on these borrowings are included in the FX reserve within the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In March 2017 the Company took out a $750m term loan.
In order to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange exposure, 13 forward currency contracts to purchase a total of $250m in exchange for a fixed amount of euro were entered into.
In order to manage the foreign exchange rate risk on repayment of principal balances, the debt is designated within cash flow and net investment hedges.
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates on the translation of profits earned by its overseas subsidiaries.
The estimated impact of the change inaverage exchange rates between 2017 and 2018 on the profit before tax has resulted in a net decrease to the 2018 result of approximately 15.7m 2017: net increase of 17.5m.
The main currency that drives this change is the euro.
Movements in US dollar and other exchange rates were less significant.
A movement of 1% in the value of sterling against other foreign currencies mainly the euro would result in a translational impact on the Groups profit before tax of approximately 3.4m 2017: 1.3m and on the Groups net assets of 23.3m 2017: 21.1m.
The closing rate of exchange for the euro at 31 March 2018 was 1.14 2017: 1.17 and for the US dollar was $1.41 2017: $1.25.
The average rate of exchange for the euro for 2018 was 1.13 2017: 1.19 and for the US dollar $1.33 2017: $1.31.
e Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from amounts receivable from customers and deposits of cash made with financial institutions.
The Group monitors its credit risk with its customers and only uses financial institutions as counter-parties that have an investment grade credit rating.
The methods used to evaluate customers credit worthiness are described in more detail in note 16.
Capital Management The Board defines capital as the equity of the Group.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital employed and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages wide employee participation and motivation through equity based incentive schemes.
Details of the current Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes and the Performance Share Plan, together with shareholding guidelines, are given in the Remuneration report.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
On 19 July 2017 the Company announced that it was to undertake a share buyback programme of up to 100m.
This reflected the Board's view that the share price at the time significantly undervalued the Group's performance to date and future prospects.
Details of the number of shares purchased and the total amounts paid are given in note 24.
The Company is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Financial Statements Interest Rate Risk Profile of Financial Assets and Liabilities The interest rate profile of the Groups net debt is shown in note 19.
The Groups floating rate loans bear interest based on Libor or Euribor.
The floating rate borrowings under the banking facilities are typically rolled over for a period of six months or less, based on the appropriate Libor Euribor rate.
With respect to the USPP notes, $100m of the $216m issued in December 2011 was converted from fixed US dollar to floating euro by the use of five cross currency interest rate swaps: three of these swaps totalling $50m expire in December 2018 with the remaining two, totalling $50m, expiring in December 2021.
These were in place at the year end with a market value of 15.1m 2017: 39.0m.
An increase of 1% in the interest rate charged during the year on borrowings not fixed by interest rate swaps would have reduced profit before tax by approximately 12.2m 2017: 8.7m before accounting for exchange differences, and would reduce net equity by approximately 9.3m 2017: 6.7m.
Group 2018 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value restated restated m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 186.5 186.5 266.2 266.2 Trade and other receivables 663.6 663.6 632.3 632.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 167.7 167.7 93.2 93.2 Trade and other payables 948.8 948.8 899.7 899.7 Primary financial instruments held to finance the Groups operations: Long-term borrowings 1,174.4 1,180.8 1,259.6 1,267.9 Derivative financial instruments 16.9 16.9 37.0 37.0 Company 2018 2017 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 6.5 6.5 1.4 1.4 Trade and other receivables 2,581.9 2,581.9 1,985.8 1,985.8 Bank loans and overdrafts 122.5 122.5 33.0 33.0 Trade and other payables 663.8 663.8 392.6 392.6 Primary financial instruments held to finance the Groups operations: Long-term borrowings 1,138.4 1,144.8 1,229.1 1,237.4 Derivative financial instruments 16.6 16.6 37.7 37.7 The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure of the Group.
The fair values of the interest rate, foreign currency and cross currency interest rate swaps have been determined by reference to the market price available from the market on which the instruments are traded.
Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
In both 2018 and 2017, all financial instruments measured at fair value are categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, whereby the fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Level 3 inputs are inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair value of the USPP is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows.
Contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration note 22 is held at fair value which is estimated based on latest forecasts principally by the Ace and Letica businesses as compared to earn-out targets.
The Group does not hold any Level 1 instruments measured at fair value.
138 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 22.
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION Contingent Post-acquisition consideration remuneration Total m m m At 1 April 2017 34.0 18.2 52.2 Arising in the year 9.2 9.2 Unwind of discount 0.8 0.8 Released in the year 13.7 7.0 20.7 Exchange differences 2.4 1.8 4.2 At 31 March 2018 18.7 18.6 37.3 Current at 31 March 2018 18.7 11.7 30.4 Non-current at 31 March 2018 6.9 6.9 18.7 18.6 37.3 Deferred and contingent Post-acquisition consideration remuneration Total m m m At 1 April 2016 46.8 10.6 57.4 Arising in the year 11.8 11.8 Unwind of discount 1.7 1.7 Utilised in the year 4.1 4.1 Released in the year 17.1 5.9 23.0 Exchange differences 6.7 1.7 8.4 At 31 March 2017 34.0 18.2 52.2 Current at 31 March 2017 2.8 2.8 Non-current at 31 March 2017 34.0 15.4 49.4 34.0 18.2 52.2 Contingent consideration relates to the acquisition of Ace.
Post-acquisition remuneration is for vendors of Ace, Letica, Strata Products, Innocan, Amber and Synergy who remain in employment.
Amounts are initially measured at fair value which is typically at the maximum earn-out value under the share purchase agreement, supported by business model cash flows, with the contingent element discounted at the incremental cost of borrowing.
These amount are subsequently revalued at each period end based on observable changes in facts and circumstances.
The valuation technique employed and inputs used to derive fair value involve: n Assessment of the earn-out criteria, typically EBITDA, operating profit or similar, either over or by a defined period: n Consideration of latest forecasts for the defined measure over the earn-out period, including an assessment of any estimates or judgements that are inherent: n Specific assessment of wider issues such as history to the extent known of forecasting accuracy, macroeconomic factors or other changes in the business: and n Comparison of the earn-out criteria to expectations of delivery.
Whilst these primary inputs represent the start point for all contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration valuations, they need to be considered alongside any potential for negotiation.
Judgement is used in determining the potential for any specific and incremental expenses being added back which may improve business performance against earn-out metrics.
Once the expected performance and potential for negotiation has been compared to the threshold s contained in the share purchase agreement, the expected cash outflow is discounted to present value using an incremental borrowing rate where the effects of time value of money is material.
During the year a write back of 20.7m has been made, primarily in relation to the Ace acquisition, to reflect the current view of the final payment that is due to be made in 2018.
Contingent consideration and post-acquisition remuneration liabilities relating to the Ace acquisition are denominated in US dollars but held in a UK sterling functional currency company.
Accordingly the foreign exchange revaluation of 2.9m, along with the unwind of discount of 0.8 m, is recorded in the Group income statement in the line item Adjusting financing costs.
Post-acquisition remuneration liabilities relating to other acquisitions Letica, Strata Products, Innocan, Amber and Synergy are held in companies whose functional currency is consistent with the denomination of the obligation.
The Company has no contingent consideration at either year end.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financial Statements 23.
PROVISIONS AND OTHER LIABILITIES Deferred Tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Accelerated Other capital Employee Tax temporary allowances benefits losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 April 2017 restated 123.3 39.1 55.6 86.1 114.7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2.6 0.3 6.0 3.8 6.9 Credit charge to the income statement 4.2 1.2 12.6 11.5 1.9 Credit charge to equity 1.8 11.3 0.7 10.2 Acquisitions 6.5 5.1 0.9 0.5 Exchange differences 4.5 0.6 1.8 0.7 6.4 At 31 March 2018 121.9 25.7 55.9 69.9 110.2 Deferred tax liabilities 121.9 97.2 219.1 Deferred tax assets 25.7 55.9 27.3 108.9 121.9 25.7 55.9 69.9 110.2 Accelerated Other capital Employee Tax temporary allowances benefits losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 77.5 24.6 23.4 15.9 45.4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2.2 0.3 30.7 6.4 22.4 Credit charge to income 1.4 0.9 9.3 7.9 16.7 Charge to equity 1.3 0.7 2.0 Acquisitions restated 39.0 13.1 9.5 54.4 70.8 Exchange differences 6.0 0.7 1.3 2.2 6.2 At 31 March 2017 restated 123.3 39.1 55.6 86.1 114.7 Deferred tax liabilities 123.3 107.1 230.4 Deferred tax assets 39.1 55.6 21.0 115.7 123.3 39.1 55.6 86.1 114.7 Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction.
The Group has deferred tax assets of 50.6m 2017: 65.2m in respect of tax losses of 195.3m 2017: 222.4m that have not been recognised as it is not probable that sufficient suitable profits will be available to utilise these assets.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which no deferred tax has been provided is 82.0m 2017: 129.8m.
No taxation is expected to arise in respect of these temporary differences.
140 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting periods: Other Other temporary temporary differences differences 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets liabilities at 1 April 0.3 0.6 Charge credit to equity 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities assets at 31 March 0.6 0.3 Other temporary differences relate primarily to hedging movements.
Contract provisions are primarily adjustments relating to recent acquisitions and represent mainly out-of-market contract adjustments.
Of the Contract provisions 6.0m are expected to be utilised within the next 12 months.
Accounting for contract provisions is detailed further in note 1.
Environmental and Health & safety, and Legal related provisions are also primarily adjustments relating to recent acquisitions and represent either provisions for environmental rectification, the cost of required procedures to bring the acquisition in line with the Group Health & Safety standards, or legal claims and other legal matters arising out of contractual obligations.
These provisions are provided for at their estimated settlement value and will be utilised as claims are resolved.
Other provisions comprise other contractual and constructive obligations around the Group, none of which are individually material.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Financial Statements 24.
SHARE CAPITAL The movement in the number of ordinary shares of 5p each issued by the Company and fully paid is as follows: 2018 2017 Number Number In issue at 1 April 414,857,469 303,612,870 Exercise of employee share options 2,445,473 741,456 Share buyback 9,603,740 Share placing 11,042,945 Shares issued as consideration 16,505,511 Rights issue 82,954,687 In issue at 31 March 407,699,202 414,857,469 The Company has one class of ordinary 5p shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares and provisions relating to the transfer of ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association and governed by statute.
All ordinary shares rank equally regarding dividends, votes and return of capital.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive shareholder notices and other documents and information and to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy, at general meetings of the Company.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of ordinary shares where the required proof of title has not been provided or transfer documents have not been lodged in an acceptable manner or form.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of holders of ordinary shares and there are no agreements that are known to the Company between shareholders which may result in such restrictions.
The options granted under the Companys savings related and executive share option schemes are satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Therefore, employees do not hold any voting rights until the shares are allotted on exercise of their options.
The Company has established the RPC Group Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Performance Share Plan.
The independent trustee has the same rights as any other shareholder in respect of any shares held by the trust except in respect of dividends.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a company is no longer required to have an authorised share capital.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 21 July 2010, the Company removed the provision for an authorised share capital from its Memorandum of Association and adopted new Articles of Association incorporating the effect of this and other changes.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration report.
Share Buyback Programme On 19 July 2017 the Company announced that it was to undertake a share buyback programme.
At 31 March 2018 the Company had acquired 9,603,740 shares at an average price of 864p.
These shares with a nominal value of 0.5m were bought back and subsequently cancelled during the year, giving rise to a capital redemption reserve of an equivalent amount as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The aggregate consideration paid was 83.4m, which includes 0.4m of associated costs, and is reflected in retained earnings.
Rights Issue On 27 February 2017, the Company issued 82,954,687 ordinary shares by way of a 1 for 4 rights issue at a price of 665p.
The net proceeds of the rights issue were 540.0m after costs of 12.1m.
The rights issue was effected through a structure which involved RPC Group Plc subscribing for shares in Alpha Funding Limited.
Alpha Funding Limited subsequently redeemed its redeemable preference shares for cash.
Following receipt of the cash proceeds through the structure, the excess of the net proceeds received over the nominal value of the share capital issued was transferred to the merger reserve.
Share Placing On 9 June 2016, the Company issued 11,042,945 ordinary shares by way of a share placement at a price of 815p per share.
The net proceeds of the share placement were 89.1m after costs of 0.9m.
Shares Issued as Consideration On 1 August 2016, the Company issued 16,505,511 ordinary shares at par value of 853p per share to the shareholders of British Polythene Industries Plc as part of the consideration for the acquisition of the group.
The total value of the shares issued was 140.8m, with the nominal value of the shares issued of 0.8m credited to share capital and the remaining amount credited to the merger reserve account.
Share-Based Payments The Company operates savings related and executive share option schemes and a Performance Share Plan, which are all equity-settled share-based payment schemes.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle employee share options or share awards in cash.
142 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Share Options Invitations under the Sharesave Scheme a savings related share option scheme are made to eligible employees in the UK and participating overseas countries.
The exercise price of the options granted is usually the average of the market price of the shares at the close of business on the three days preceding the invitation date, discounted by 20%.
Options are normally exercisable for a period of six months starting three years after the related savings contract begins, provided a participant remains an employee of the Group and completes the three year savings contract.
Executive share options are granted to managers at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors.
The exercise price is normally the market price at the close of business on the day preceding the date of grant.
Options are exercisable between three and ten years after the date of grant provided the participant remains an employee of the Group and, for options granted since 2014, an earnings per share target is met.
Further information on these schemes is given in the Remuneration report.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2018 2017 Average Average exercise Number exercise Number price of options price of options Outstanding at 1 April 575p 10,892,543 450p 5,923,520 Granted 827p 1,273,500 741p 5,499,367 Rights issue adjustment 456p 434,668 Forfeited 543p 284,478 453p 85,913 Exercised 384p 2,445,473 289p 741,456 Lapsed 607p 29,107 453p 104,440 Cancelled 696p 153,715 371p 33,203 Outstanding at 31 March 662p 9,253,270 575p 10,892,543 Exercisable at 31 March 366p 1,919,801 282p 998,689 The weighted average share price in respect of options exercised during the year was 817p per share 2017: 887p.
The cash proceeds from the exercise of share options during the year was 9.4m 2017: 2.1m.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining Number of Option contractual Number Option contractual options price range life years of options price range life years 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 RPC Group 2013 Sharesave Scheme 4,894,811 371p-741p 1.7 7,287,869 371p-741p 2.6 RPC Group 2013 Executive Share Option Schemes 3,688,935 447p-871p 8.1 2,787,028 304p-742p 6.8 RPC Group 2003 Executive Share Option Schemes 669,524 180p-307p 4.5 817,646 180p-307p 4.6 Outstanding at 31 March 9,253,270 10,892,543 The number of options and their exercise prices in respect of grants made prior to the rights issue were adjusted to take account of the diluting effect of rights issues.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Financial Statements The fair value of options and the significant inputs using the Black-Scholes valuation model were as follows: RPC Group 2013 Sharesave scheme RPC Group 2013 Executive Share Option Scheme Date of grant 16.01.15 31.03.17 16.07.14 15.07.15 13.07.16 19.07.17 10.08.17 Share price at date of grant 542p 782p 594p 663p 803p 880p 857p Original exercise price 430p 741p 584p 654p 791p 825p 871p Fair value of options 96p 121p 126p 132p 149p 154p 124p Expected volatility 23% 25% 34% 29% 27% 24% 24% Dividend yield 3.0% 2.4% 2.6% 2.4% 2.2% 2.7% 2.8% Annual risk-free interest rate 0.7% 0.2% 2.2% 1.7% 0.4% 0.7% 0.5% Option life 3.4 years 3.3 years 6.4 years 6.4 years 6.5 years 5.7 years 5.7 years Adjusted to take account of the rights issues in January 2015, January 2016 and February 2017 where relevant.
The volatility, measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns, is based on statistical analysis of the Companys historical share price.
The option life allows for the vesting period and time to exercise.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
Performance Share Plan Conditional annual awards of shares are granted under the RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan the Plan to certain Executive Directors and senior managers at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Provided the participant remains an employee of the Group and the performance conditions are met, awards will vest three years after the date of grant.
The percentage of shares that will actually vest is dependent upon the Groups earnings per share growth and, for the 2014 to 2017 awards, total shareholder return performance over a three year measurement period commencing on 1 April of the year in which the award is made.
The awards made before 2011 were in the form of allocations of free shares that transfer to participants on the vesting date provided the conditions are met.
Allocations that have vested must be satisfied within 30 days of the vesting date.
After 2010, nil cost options were granted which, subject to the conditions, will be exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
Awards under the Plan will only be satisfied with market purchase shares.
Further information on the Plan and the performance conditions is given in the Directors Remuneration report.
Movements in the number of outstanding conditional awards of shares are as follows: Number of Number of shares shares 2018 2017 Outstanding at 1 April 1,478,445 1,435,897 Granted 636,971 550,296 Rights issue adjustment 101,226 Exercised 446,947 589,860 Lapsed 19,114 Outstanding at 31 March 1,668,469 1,478,445 Exercisable at 31 March 41,495 Weighted average remaining contractual life 8.4 years 8.6 years The market price of the shares transferred on vesting during the year was 845p per share 2017: 877p.
The fair value of the nil cost options granted during the year under the Performance Share Plan and the key inputs using the Black-Scholes valuation model were as follows: RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan Date of grant 16.07.14 15.07.15 13.07.16 19.07.17 10.08.17 Share price at date of grant 594p 663p 803p 880p 857p Fair value of award 383p 500p 651p 762p 742p Expected volatility 23% 23% 23% 25% 25% Dividend yield 2.6% 2.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Annual risk-free interest rate 1.3% 0.9% 0.1% 0.3% 0.2% Expected life of award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Adjusted to take account of the rights issue in January 2015, January 2016 and February 2017 where relevant.
There is no entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
144 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 RPC Group Employee Benefit Trust The Company operates an employee benefit trust, the RPC Group Employee Benefit Trust, which was established in 2008 to purchase shares to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan.
Purchases are funded using interest free loans from the Company.
As at 31 March 2018 the Employee Benefit Trust held 1,151,386 2017: 1,384,156 shares in the Company acquired at an average cost of 955p 2017: 606p per share.
The investment in the shares is included in the Consolidated balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 11.0m 2017: 8.4m.
The market value of the shares held by the trust at 31 March 2018 was 8.9m 2017: 10.8m.
The trust has waived dividends receivable on the shares held during the year.
Share-Based Payment Expense The expense in respect of share-based payments recognised in the Consolidated income statement is as follows: 2018 2017 m m RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan 2.7 2.7 RPC Group 2013 Executive Share Option Schemes 1.4 1.0 RPC Group 2013 Sharesave Scheme 2.7 0.8 Total included in staff costs note 5 6.8 4.5 25.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS On 19 June 2017 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Astrapak Limited, a leading South African manufacturer of rigid plastic packaging products and components with a broad product offering across injection moulding, blow moulding and thermoforming technology platforms.
The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination.
The provisional fair values recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: Provisional fair value m Intangible assets 1.4 Property, plant and equipment 45.8 Assets held for sale 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2.9 Inventories 11.7 Trade and other receivables 14.5 Trade and other payables 17.5 Provisions 5.9 Deferred tax 0.5 Current tax 0.3 Debt 15.0 Total identifiable assets 41.4 Goodwill 26.6 Non-controlling interest 2.3 Consideration 65.7 Consideration comprised cash of 65.7m.
The cash out flow in the Consolidated cash flow statement of 65.2m comprises the consideration 65.7m net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 2.9m along with the additional consideration paid for Letica and ESE World on agreement of completion accounts 2.4m.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheets primarily relate to intangible assets of customer contacts, patents and licensing agreements, revaluation of property, plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS 13 and recognition of provisions relating to out of market contracts and other necessary provisions.
Adjustment to taxes relate to additional tax provisions and deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired business, the skills and experience of the assembled workforce, the increase in scale, significant synergies and the future growth opportunities that the business provide to the Groups operations.
The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Financial Statements The acquisition made during the year contributed the following to the Group results: m Contribution to adjusted operating profit post-acquisition 2.2 Contribution to revenue post-acquisition 61.3 If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2017 it would have contributed the following to the Group results: m Adjusted operating profit from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 2.4 Revenue from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 79.3 Prior Year Acquisitions In the prior year the Group acquired BPI, Letica, ESE World, Plastiape, Jagtenberg, Synergy, Sanders, Amber and Shenzen Howyecen Automotive Electronic Company.
The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired have been reconsidered in the hindsight period as required under IFRS 3.
Changes to fair values have only been made to the extent that the conditions of the changes existed at the point of acquisition.
The changes to fair value have been brought about through improved information being made available to management during the hindsight period, such as being able to base fair value calculations on actual numbers rather than estimates.
All changes to fair values made in the hindsight period impact the balance sheet only.
The following shows changes to fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed: Reported 2017 BPI ESE World Letica Restated 2017 m m m m m Other intangible assets 377.8 1.1 376.7 Property, plant and equipment 1,265.5 0.6 1,264.9 Deferred tax asset 116.1 0.5 0.1 115.7 Trade and other receivables 625.9 6.4 632.3 Cash and cash equivalents 258.1 8.1 266.2 Bank loans and overdrafts 85.1 8.1 93.2 Trade and other payables 885.8 6.4 0.9 6.6 899.7 Current provisions 66.0 0.7 4.5 62.2 Deferred tax liability 233.2 0.9 1.9 230.4 Non-current provisions 45.6 0.6 46.2 Total 2.0 1.4 0.2 Goodwill 1,575.1 2.0 1.4 0.2 1,578.7 3.0m of adjustments to trade and other payables relates to additional consideration payable to the vendors of ESE World and Letica, 2.4m of which has been paid in the year as a result of finalisation of the completion statements.
The remaining movement in trade and other payables represents a balance sheet reclassification with trade and other receivables and current provisions.
The remaining changes arose through enhancements to the information management used to originally establish the fair values and the associated deferred tax impact of those changes.
146 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 26.
DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS During the year the Group received proceeds of 0.5m relating to the disposal of the Cobelplast business in 2014.
This receivable had previously been impaired.
In the prior year the Group disposed of its interest in the share capital of Promens India Private Ltd Ahmedabad, a 100% subsidiary based in India, by way of a management buy out for 0.1m.
The loss on disposal of Ahmedabad was 1.9m.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2018 2017 m m Expenditure contracted for but not provided 57.4 62.0 Financial Commitments The Group had total minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 24.0 21.9 Between one and five years 54.2 56.2 After five years 13.8 17.9 92.0 96.0 The Company had no commitments at either year end.
Contingent Liabilities Bank Guarantees The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank guarantees issued in the ordinary course of business amounting to 30.3m 2017: 31.0m, and for the Company this amounted to 9.9m 2017: 9.8m.
The Company has cross guarantee overdraft and credit facilities with its subsidiaries as follows: Maximum amount Utilised at guaranteed 31 March 2018 RPC Packaging Europe BV 22.0m RPC Packaging Europe BV 21.0m RPC Packaging Europe BV 10.0m RPC Packaging Europe BV 10.0m RPC Bramlage Morgantown Inc. $10.0m $7.9m Promens Group AS 11.0m ESE World BV 11.0m 3.2m Contingent Liabilities Pension Guarantees The Company has given a guarantee to the trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme the Scheme in respect of RPC Containers Limited and RPC Tedeco-Gizeh UK Limited up to a maximum underfunded amount.
The underfunded amount is 105% of the Schemes liabilities, calculated according to section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004 the Act less the value of the Schemes assets.
As at 31 March 2018, the underfunded amount in excess of the provision in the Consolidated balance sheet based on the most recent section 179 valuation was 75.8m 2017: 75.8m.
In addition, the Company has given a capped guarantee in respect of any additional buy-out liabilities calculated in accordance with section 75 of the Act in respect of the Scheme.
As at 31 March 2018 the guarantee was capped at 96.3m 2017: 71.5m.
The cap will increase annually by 25% of the average of the Companys consolidated profit before tax for the three preceding financial years.
During the year the Company has also given a guarantee to the trustee of the British Polythene Pension Scheme in respect of British Polythene Industries Limited up to a maximum underfunded amount.
As at 31 March 2018, the underfunded amount in excess of the provision in the Consolidated balance sheet based on the most recent section 179 valuation was 115.9m 2017: nil.
Contingent Liabilities EU State Aid In November 2017 the European Commission announced a State Aid investigation into the UK CFC exemption rules for overseas finance companies.
The Group has benefited from the exemption from 2013 onwards in full accordance with existing UK tax law.
As at 31 March 2018, the outcome of the investigation could change substantially over time as the proceedings develop.
Due to the uncertainty the Group is unable to accurately define what the ultimate outcome will be.
However, based on a worst case scenario the current benefit to the Group from the exemption is not material.
The Group continues to keep the European Commission investigation and its outcome under review.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Financial Statements 28.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 2018 2017 m m Retirement benefit obligations 192.9 251.6 Termination benefits 0.7 0.9 Other long-term employee benefit liabilities 3.3 3.5 Employee benefits due after one year 196.9 256.0 There are no employee benefit costs in respect of the Company for either year.
Retirement Benefit Obligations The liability recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet for the Groups retirement benefit obligations is: Other mainland UK Netherlands Germany France Europe Group As at 31 March 2018 m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 607.3 23.2 30.6 661.1 Fair value of plan assets 511.5 22.8 28.1 562.4 Net funded obligations 95.8 0.4 2.5 98.7 Present value of unfunded obligations 69.9 13.9 10.4 94.2 Liability in the Consolidated balance sheet 95.8 0.4 69.9 13.9 12.9 192.9 Other mainland UK Netherlands Germany France Europe Group As at 31 March 2017 m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 657.3 22.7 28.7 708.7 Fair value of plan assets 500.1 22.1 25.3 547.5 Net funded obligations 157.2 0.6 3.4 161.2 Present value of unfunded obligations 67.4 12.6 10.4 90.4 Liability in the Consolidated balance sheet 157.2 0.6 67.4 12.6 13.8 251.6 The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet is: 2018 2017 m m Fair value of plan assets 562.4 547.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations 755.3 799.1 Balance sheet liability 192.9 251.6 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current service cost 4.6 3.6 Pension administration costs 1.2 1.0 Past service 0.3 1.4 Total included in staff costs note 5 6.1 3.2 Defined benefit pension schemes finance expense note 6 5.7 4.9 Total amount recognised in the Consolidated income statement 11.8 8.1 148 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are: 2018 2017 m m At 1 April 61.9 54.7 Actuarial re-measurement recognised during the year 54.4 7.2 At 31 March 7.5 61.9 The actuarial re-measurement recognised during the year comprised of: 2018 2017 m m Experience gains on plan assets 14.1 54.8 Experience gains on liabilities 18.0 7.2 Gains losses on change of financial assumptions 1.9 70.3 Gain on change of demographic assumptions 20.4 1.1 54.4 7.2 Changes to the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Defined benefit obligations at 1 April 799.1 360.9 Obligations acquired on acquisition 368.2 Current service cost 4.6 3.6 Past service 0.3 1.4 Finance expense on scheme obligations 19.1 15.9 Contributions by participants 0.9 1.0 Actuarial re-measurement of liabilities 40.3 62.0 Net benefits paid 29.9 20.8 Settlements 0.2 Exchange differences 1.7 9.7 Defined benefit obligations at 31 March 755.3 799.1 Changes to the fair value of plan assets during the year are: 2018 2017 m m Fair value of assets at 1 April 547.5 214.2 Assets acquired on acquisition 273.0 Finance income on scheme assets 13.4 11.0 Actuarial re-measurement of assets 14.1 54.8 Contributions by employer 17.8 12.7 Contributions by participants 0.9 1.0 Net benefits paid 29.9 20.8 Settlements 0.2 Administration expense 1.2 1.0 Exchange differences 2.6 Fair value of assets at 31 March 562.4 547.5 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Financial Statements The movement in the liability recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet is: 2018 2017 m m Liability at 1 April 251.6 146.7 Net liabilities acquired on acquisition 95.2 Total expense charged to the Consolidated income statement 11.8 8.1 Actuarial re-measurement recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 54.4 7.2 Contributions and benefits paid 17.8 12.7 Exchange differences 1.7 7.1 Liability at 31 March 192.9 251.6 The fair value of the funded plan assets invested in the balance sheet is set out below: 2018 2017 Mainland Mainland UK Europe Group UK Europe Group m m m m m m Equities 163.3 2.4 165.7 162.3 5.3 167.6 Property 72.3 2.6 74.9 68.2 2.8 71.0 Government and corporate bonds 166.7 0.1 166.8 168.1 0.2 168.3 Insurance policies 1.1 42.4 43.5 1.4 38.0 39.4 Other 108.1 3.4 111.5 100.1 1.1 101.2 Fair value of assets at 31 March 511.5 50.9 562.4 500.1 47.4 547.5 The majority of the assets are quoted on an active market.
However, the following assets can be considered unquoted: n All insurance policies n Some of the property investments n Hedge funds which are included within Other The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were: 2018 2017 Mainland Mainland UK Europe UK Europe Discount rate 2.6% 1.6% 2.6% 1.8% Inflation rate 2.0% 1.8% 2.1% 1.7% Increase in benefits in payment 2.5% 1.8% 2.2% 1.8% Salary increases 2.8% 2.1% 3.0% 2.0% Actuarial assumptions were derived based on advice from independent actuaries and were used in updating the value of all major schemes in the Group at 31 March 2018.
The mortality assumptions used allow for future mortality improvements in valuing the defined benefit obligations and are based on standard mortality tables used by the actuarial profession in the relevant countries adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect the circumstances of the relevant schemes membership.
In the UK current mortality assumptions applied as at 31 March 2018 are specific to each UK Scheme and the allowance made for mortality improvements is assumed to be in line with the 2014 CMI Core Projections with a long-term rate of 1.25% p. a.
The life expectancies from the age of 65 of UK scheme members assumed at the balance sheet date in years were as follows: 2018 2017 UK UK Current age: Aged 65: Male 22 22 Female 24 24 Aged 45: Male 24 24 Female 26 26 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 12 years 2017: 19 years.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 17.3m 2017: 13.3m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial year.
This includes proposed contributions to the main UK pension schemes described above of 11.5m 2017: 7.9m.
150 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 Funded Retirement Benefit Obligations United Kingdom The two main retirement benefit obligations in the UK are final salary defined benefit pension schemes, called the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme and the British Polythene Industries Limited Pension Scheme, and they are both closed to future entrants and to future accrual.
The assets of all the schemes are held in a separate trustee administered fund to meet long-term liabilities for past and present employees.
The corporate trustees, which are independent from the Group, have a duty to act in the best interest of the schemes beneficiaries.
The appointment of trustee directors is determined by the schemes corporate and trust documentation and by statute.
The last completed triennial valuation performed by an independent actuary for the trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2015.
The valuation, which is calculated on an ongoing funding basis and is different from that prescribed by IAS 19, showed a deficit of 41.8m.
The Company agreed to make contributions to cover the schemes expenses and pay monthly deficit reduction contributions of 3.2m each year until 31 March 2019, and 2.4m each year from 1 April 2019 with the aim of eliminating the deficit by September 2024.
In addition, in the event that any of the members employing companies are unable to pay their contributions, the trustee may call upon guarantees provided by RPC Group Plc in respect of certain present and future liabilities of the members employing companies in the UK.
During the year the defined benefit assets and liabilities of the Superfos Runcorn Limited Pension Fund, Peerless Limited Pension Scheme and the Manuplastics Ltd Pension & Life Assurance Plan were transferred into the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
This transfer was completed on 29 March 2018.
Following the transfer, the Company agreed to a new schedule of contributions for the scheme and to cease contributions in to the transferring schemes from 1 April 2018.
The new contributions the Company agreed were similar to the total contributions paid to all schemes immediately before the transfer and results in contributions of 3.9m p. a. increasing at 3% p. a.
The expectation is that the deficit will continue to be removed by 30 September 2024.
The next triennial valuation for the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme is as at 31 March 2018 and the contributions will be reviewed and discussed with the Trustee of the Scheme.
The last completed triennial valuation performed by an independent actuary for the trustee of the British Polythene Pension Scheme was carried out as at 6 April 2014.
The valuation, which is calculated on an ongoing funding basis and is different from that prescribed by IAS 19, showed a deficit of 77m.
The Company and the trustee agreed to make contributions of 3.6m per annum from 2015: rising in line with the CPI index subject to a cap of 5%.
There is also provision for three additional one-off payments in 2016 to 2018, subject to the bpi Groups profit before tax achieving agreed targets in 2015 to 2017.
The one-off payments would be 0.25m, 0.5m, 1.0m or 1.5m subject to profit before tax exceeding 22.5m, 25m, 27.5m or 30m respectively.
In addition the scheme has a pension funding partnership whereby additional contributions of 1.8m p. a. increasing by CPI will be paid until January 2032.
Should the scheme have a funding surplus in the future these payments will cease.
The Company is currently agreeing with the Trustee new contributions as part of the triennial valuation as at 31 March 2017.
As a result of previous acquisitions the Group has four other UK final salary defined benefit pension arrangements providing benefits based on final pensionable salary and pensionable service although the assets and liabilities for three of the arrangements transferred to the RPC Containers Pension Scheme on 29 March 2018.
The total deficit in the fund calculated in accordance with IAS 19 as at 31 March 2018 for the remaining UK scheme was 31.4m 2017: 46.5m.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation in the financial statements was measured using the projected unit credit method based on the last actuarial valuation for IAS 19 purposes allowing for IAS 19 financial assumptions and any further improvements in life expectancy.
Overseas funds The Group operates a number of overseas defined benefit pension schemes, in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Thailand and The Philippines.
In the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway and Thailand, these are contributory with funds held separately from the finances of the Group either by trustee-administered funds or by insurance contracts.
In all cases, the retirement benefit obligations for these plans have been calculated by actuaries using the projected unit method.
In the Netherlands there are a number of defined benefit retirement plans.
These are funded by contributions to insurance policies or a separately administered fund.
Insurance policies are valued in accordance with paragraph 115 of IAS19.
The majority of the plans are now closed the pension plan at Kerkrade was closed during 2017 resulting in a curtailment gain of 0.6m.
Most of the Groups German operations provide non-contributory pension plans financed by balance sheet provisions calculated by a local actuary on an annual basis according to local requirements.
There is no external funding for these plans although they are secured by insolvency insurance required under German law.
In general, the plans provide a fixed retirement benefit not related to salaries and are closed to new entrants.
Pension increases are granted every three years based on price inflation.
All of the Groups subsidiaries in France provide unfunded retirement indemnities according to the applicable collective agreement.
The benefit takes the form of a lump sum, based on final salary and service with the Company, payable on reaching retirement age.
RPCs operations in Belgium and Switzerland provide pension benefits which are defined contribution in nature.
However, the existence of investment guarantees requires these plans to be treated as defined benefit for accounting purposes.
RPCs Italian businesses are required to provide service-related lump sum benefits payable on leaving service for any reason, including retirement.
Termination Benefits Termination benefit provisions consist of German Altersteilzeit employee incentives a part-time early retirement scheme described in note 1 and Belgian and Dutch contractual pre-retirement termination benefits.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 Financial Statements Other Long-Term Employee Benefit Liabilities These consist of deferred salaries for German Altersteilzeit employees and provision for long-service awards.
Risk Management Typically trustees or similar bodies manage the defined benefit plans and agree the contribution rates based on independent actuarial advice.
The Group seeks to maintain a good working relationship with trustees through regular meetings and communications.
There is a risk that changes in the discount rate, price inflation and life expectancy could lead to a material deficit.
Any funding deficit that arises will be financed over a period negotiated between the Group and the Trustees.
The impact of a change of assumption on the material schemes in the Group are as follows: RPC Containers Limited Pension bpi Pension M&H Plastics Scheme Scheme Pension Scheme m m m 0.1% decrease in discount rate 3.8 5.5 2.1 0.1% increase in inflation 3.0 3.8 0.6 1 year increase in life expectancy 8.7 13.2 3.2 The above sensitivity analyses are based on isolated changes in each assumption, while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and there is likely to be some level of correlation between movements in different assumptions.
In addition, these sensitivities relate only to potential movement in the defined benefit obligations.
The assets are designed to mitigate the impact of these movements to some extent, such that the movements in the defined benefit obligations shown above would, in practice, be partly offset by movements in asset valuations.
The above sensitivities are shown to illustrate at a high level the scale of sensitivity of the defined benefit obligations to key actuarial assumptions.
RELATED PARTIES Group Identity or related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries see pages 153 to 158 and with its key management personnel, who are considered to be its directors.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation for the Group and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions with the key management personnel Disclosures relating to Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 2.4 2.3 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based benefits and other long-term benefits 1.3 2.1 3.9 4.6 Company The amounts due to and from the Company in respect of its subsidiaries are set out in notes 16 and 18.
The transactions entered into between the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows.
2018 2017 m m Management charges made to fellow Group undertakings 4.0 3.3 Management charges received from fellow Group undertakings 9.8 8.0 Net interest payable 14.9 7.4 Net interest receivable 70.5 35.0 152 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 March 2018 30.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 30 April 2018 the Group acquired Nordfolien GmbH and its subsidiary company for an enterprise value of 75m.
Nordfolien is a leading business in the design and manufacture of higher added value polythene films for both industrial and consumer packaging markets.
Nordfolien has two well-invested sites in Germany and Poland.
Subsequent to the year end the Board approved the conclusion of a strategic review which has identified a number of businesses as non-core.
These businesses either are already or will shortly be part of a disposal process and are likely to be classified as discontinued operations in the 2018 19 financial statements.
