Presentation of accounts The consolidated accounts are prepared basis using the projected unit credit method The accounts, set out on pages 176 to 181 under uniform accounting policies.
and discounted at a rate determined by including these accounting policies on pages reference to market yields at the end of the 3.
Revenue recognition 182 to 186 and the audited sections of the reporting period on high quality corporate Interest income or expense on financial Financial review: Capital and risk management bonds of equivalent term and currency to the instruments that are measured at amortised on pages 89 to 164, are prepared on a going scheme liabilities.
Scheme assets are cost and fair value through comprehensive concern basis see the Report of the directors, measured at their fair value.
The difference income is determined using the effective page 85 and in accordance with International between scheme assets and scheme interest rate method.
The effective interest Financial Reporting Standards as issued by liabilities, the net defined benefit asset or rate allocates the interest income or interest the International Accounting Standards Board liability, is recognised in the balance sheet.
A expense over the expected life of the asset or IASB and interpretations as issued by the defined benefit asset is limited to the present liability at the rate that exactly discounts all IFRS Interpretations Committee of the IASB value of any economic benefits available to estimated future cash flows to equal the and adopted by the European Union EU the Group in the form of refunds from the plan instrument's initial carrying amount.
together IFRS.. or reduced contributions to it.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes The company is incorporated in the UK and into account fees payable or receivable that The charge to profit or loss for pension costs registered in Scotland.
Its accounts are are an integral part of the instrument's yield, recorded in operating expenses comprises: presented in accordance with the Companies premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, the current service cost Act 2006. early redemption fees and transaction costs.
interest, computed at the rate used to All contractual terms of a financial instrument With the exception of investment property and discount scheme liabilities, on the net are considered when estimating future cash certain financial instruments as described in defined benefit liability or asset flows.
Negative effective interest accruing to Accounting policies 8, 13, and 21, the past service cost resulting from a financial assets is presented in interest accounts are presented on an historical cost scheme amendment or curtailment payable.
gains or losses on settlement.
Net interest income in the income statement Adoption of IFRS 9 only relates to financial instruments measured A curtailment occurs when the Group Refer to Note 33 for details of the adoption of at amortised cost: the interest on debt significantly reduces the number of IFRS 9. instruments classified as fair value through employees covered by a plan.
A plan Other amendments to IFRS OCI: and the effective part of any related amendment occurs when the Group IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with accounting hedging instruments.
Other introduces, or withdraws, a defined benefit Customers has been adopted with effect from interest relating to financial instruments plan or changes the benefits payable under 1 January 2018.
The Accounting policy is measured at fair value is recognised as part of an existing defined benefit plan.
Past service updated to reflect the terminology in the new the movement in fair value.
cost may be either positive when benefits are standard but it has had no effect on financial introduced or changed so that the present information reported in the current or Fees in respect of services are recognised as value of the defined benefit obligation comparative periods.
Interest income and the right to consideration accrues through the increases or negative when benefits are expense continues to be recognised using the performance of each distinct service withdrawn or changed so that the present effective interest rate method for financial obligation to the customer.
The arrangements value of the defined benefit obligation instruments measured at historical cost.
There are generally contractual and the cost of decreases.
A settlement is a transaction that has been no restatement of profit or loss for providing the service is incurred as each eliminates all further obligation for part or all of comparative periods.
The price is usually fixed the benefits.
Other amendments to IFRS effective for 2018, Actuarial gains and losses i. e. gains or and including IFRS 2 Share-based payments and 4.
Assets held for sale and discontinued losses on re-measuring the net defined IAS 40 Investment Property have not had a operations benefit asset or liability are recognised in A non-current asset or disposal group is material effect on the Groups financial other comprehensive income in full in the classified as held for sale if the Group will statements.
period in which they arise.
recover its carrying amount principally through a sale transaction rather than through 6.
Basis of consolidation continuing use.
A non-current asset or Intangible assets acquired by the Group are The consolidated accounts incorporate the disposal group classified as held for sale is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation financial statements of the company and measured at the lower of its carrying amount and impairment losses.
Amortisation is entities including certain structured entities and fair value less costs to sell.
charged to profit or loss over the assets' that are controlled by the Group.
The Group estimated economic lives using methods that controls another entity a subsidiary when it 5.
Employee benefits best reflect the pattern of economic benefits Short-term employee benefits, such as is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns and is included in Depreciation and salaries, paid absences, and other benefits from its involvement with that entity and has amortisation.
These estimated useful are accounted for on an accruals basis over the ability to affect those returns through its economic lives are: the period in which the employees provide the power over the other entity: power generally related services.
Employees may receive Computer software 3 to 12 years arises from holding a majority of voting rights.
variable compensation satisfied by cash, by Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years On acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable debt instruments issued by the Group or by assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are Expenditure on internally generated goodwill RBSG shares.
The treatment of share-based included in the consolidated accounts at their and brands is written-off as incurred.
A subsidiary is included in the compensation is set out in Accounting policy costs relating to the development of internalconsolidated financial statements from the 23.
Variable compensation that is settled in use computer software are capitalised once date it is controlled by the Group until the date cash or debt instruments is charged to profit technical feasibility and economic viability the Group ceases to control it through a sale or loss over the period from the start of the have been established.
These costs include or a significant change in circumstances.
year to which the variable compensation payroll, the costs of materials and services, relates to the expected settlement date taking and directly attributable overheads.
account of forfeiture and clawback criteria.
Changes in the Groups interest in a Capitalisation of costs ceases when the subsidiary that do not result in the Group software is capable of operating as intended.
Contributions to defined contribution pension ceasing to control that subsidiary are During and after development, accumulated schemes are recognised in profit or loss when accounted for as equity transactions.
All costs are reviewed for impairment against the payable.
intergroup balances, transactions, income and benefits that the software is expected to expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Costs incurred prior to the For defined benefit schemes, the defined establishment of technical feasibility and benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial 182 Accounting policies economic viability are expensed as incurred than it would have been had no impairment other contracts with customers to lease assets as are all training costs and general loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on are classified as operating leases.
The costs of licences to use goodwill are not reversed.
Finance lease receivables are included in the computer software that are expected to 8.
Investment property balance sheet, within net loans to customers, generate economic benefits beyond one year Investment property comprises freehold and at the amount of the net investment in the are also capitalised.
leasehold properties that are held to earn lease being the minimum lease payments and Intangible assets include goodwill arising on rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
any unguaranteed residual value discounted the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint Investment property is not depreciated but is at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
Goodwill on the acquisition of a stated at fair value.
Fair value is based on Finance lease income is allocated to subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the current prices for similar properties in the accounting periods so as to give a constant consideration transferred, the fair value of any same location and condition.
Any gain or loss periodic rate of return before tax on the net existing interest in the subsidiary and the arising from a change in fair value is investment and included in Interest amount of any non-controlling interest recognised in profit or loss.
Unguaranteed residual values are measured either at fair value or at its share of from investment property is recognised on a subject to regular review: if there is a the subsidiarys net assets over net fair value straight-line basis over the term of the lease in reduction in their value, income allocation is of the subsidiarys identifiable assets, Other operating income.
Lease incentives revised and any reduction in respect of liabilities and contingent liabilities.
granted are recognised as an integral part of amounts accrued is recognised immediately.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a joint Rental income from operating leases is venture when the cost of investment exceeds 9.
Foreign currencies recognised in income on a straight-line basis the Groups share of the net fair value of the The Group's consolidated financial statements over the lease term unless another systematic joint ventures identifiable assets and are presented in sterling which is the basis better represents the time pattern of the liabilities.
Goodwill is measured at initial cost functional currency of the company.
Operating lease assets are less any subsequent impairment losses.
included within Property, plant and equipment Transactions in foreign currencies are Goodwill arising on the acquisition of and depreciated over their useful lives.
recorded in the functional currency at the associates is included within their carrying Operating lease rentals receivable are foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of a included in Other operating income.
Monetary assets and liabilities subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes denominated in foreign currencies are As lessee the carrying value of any related goodwill.
translated into the relevant functional currency The Groups contracts to lease assets are 7.
Impairment of intangible assets and at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the principally operating leases.
Operating lease property, plant and equipment balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange rental expense is included in Premises and At each balance sheet date, the Group differences arising on the settlement of foreign equipment costs and recognised as an assesses whether there is any indication that currency transactions and from the translation expense on a straight-line basis over the its intangible assets, or property, plant and of monetary assets and liabilities are reported lease term unless another systematic basis equipment are impaired.
If any such indication in income from trading activities except for better represents the benefit to the Group.
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable differences arising on cash flow hedges and 11.
Provisions amount of the asset and the impairment loss if hedges of net investments in foreign The Group recognises a provision for a any.
Goodwill is tested for impairment operations see Accounting policy 21. present obligation resulting from a past event annually or more frequently if events or Non-monetary items denominated in foreign when it is more likely than not that it will be changes in circumstances indicate that it currencies that are stated at fair value are required to transfer economic benefits to might be impaired.
translated into the relevant functional currency settle the obligation and the amount of the If an asset does not generate cash flows that at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the obligation can be estimated reliably.
are independent from those of other assets or dates the values are determined.
Translation Provision is made for restructuring costs, groups of assets, the recoverable amount is differences arising on non-monetary items including the costs of redundancy, when the determined for the cash-generating unit to measured at fair value are recognised in profit Group has a constructive obligation to which the asset belongs.
A cash-generating or loss except for differences arising on nonrestructure.
An obligation exists when the unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets monetary financial assets classified as Group has a detailed formal plan for the that generates cash inflows that are largely available for sale, for example equity shares, restructuring and has raised a valid independent of the cash inflows from other which are recognised in other comprehensive expectation in those affected by starting to assets or groups of assets.
For the purposes income unless the asset is the hedged item in implement the plan or by announcing its main of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a a fair value hedge.
business combination is allocated to each of Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, the Groups cash-generating units or groups If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it including goodwill and fair value adjustments recognises the present obligation under the of cash-generating units expected to benefit arising on acquisition, are translated into contract as a provision.
An onerous contract is from the combination.
The recoverable sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the one where the unavoidable costs of meeting amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of the Groups contractual obligations exceed the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and foreign operations are translated into sterling the expected economic benefits.
Value in use is the present at average exchange rates unless these do Group vacates a leasehold property, a value of future cash flows from the asset or not approximate to the foreign exchange rates provision is recognised for the costs under the cash-generating unit discounted at a rate that ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign lease less any expected economic benefits reflects market interest rates adjusted for risks exchange differences arising on the such as rental income.
specific to the asset or cash-generating unit translation of a foreign operation are that have not been taken into account in Contingent liabilities are possible obligations recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the arising from past events, whose existence will The amount accumulated in equity is recoverable amount of an intangible or be confirmed only by uncertain future events, reclassified from equity to profit or loss on tangible asset is less than its carrying value, or present obligations arising from past events disposal of a foreign operation.
an impairment loss is recognised immediately that are not recognised because either an 10.
Leases in profit or loss and the carrying value of the outflow of economic benefits is not probable As lessor asset reduced by the amount of the loss.
A or the amount of the obligation cannot be Contracts with customers to lease assets are reversal of an impairment loss on intangible reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are classified as finance leases if they transfer assets excluding goodwill or property, plant not recognised but information about them is substantially all the risks and rewards of and equipment can be recognised when an disclosed unless the possibility of any outflow ownership of the asset to the customer: all increase in service potential arises provided of economic benefits in settlement is remote.
the increased carrying value is not greater 183 Accounting policies 12.
Tax recognition as being at fair value through increase in credit risk rating, otherwise Income tax expense or income, comprising profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with allowances are based on lifetime expected current tax and deferred tax, is recorded in the transaction costs being recognised in profit or losses.
Loss allowances for lease receivables income statement except income tax on items loss, and are subsequently measured at fair are always made on a lifetime basis.
recognised outside profit or loss which is value.
Gains and losses are recognised in Expected credit losses are a probabilitycredited or charged to other comprehensive profit or loss as they arise.
weighted estimate of credit losses.
The income or to equity as appropriate.
Amortised cost assets have to meet both probability is determined by the risk of default Current tax is income tax payable or the following criteria: which is applied to the cash flow estimates.
In recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or a the asset is held within a business model the absence of a change in credit rating, loss for the year arising in profit or loss, other whose objective is solely to hold assets allowances are recognised when there is comprehensive income or equity.
Provision is to collect contractual cash flows: and reduction in the net present value of expected made for current tax at rates enacted or b the contractual terms of the financial cash flows.
On a significant increase in credit substantively enacted at the balance sheet asset are solely payments of principal risk, allowances are recognised without a date.
and interest on the outstanding balance.
change in the expected cash flows, although typically expected cash flows do also change: Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable Amortised cost liabilities all liabilities that are and expected credit losses are rebased from or recoverable in respect of temporary not subsequently measured at fair value are 12 month to lifetime expectations.
differences between the carrying amount of measured at amortised cost.
an asset or liability for accounting purposes On restructuring a financial asset without Assets designated at fair value through other and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
causing derecognition of the original asset the comprehensive income An equity instrument Deferred tax liabilities are generally revised cash flows are used in re-estimating may be designated irrevocably at fair value recognised for all taxable temporary the credit loss.
Where restructuring causes through other comprehensive income.
differences and deferred tax assets are derecognition of the original financial asset, Other assets have to meet both the following recognised to the extent that it is probable that the fair value of the replacement asset is used criteria: the asset will be recovered.
as the closing cash flow of the original asset.
a the asset is held within a business model Deferred tax is not recognised on temporary whose objective is both to hold assets to Where, in the course of the orderly realisation differences that arise from initial recognition of collect contractual cash flows and selling of a loan, it is exchanged for equity shares or an asset or a liability in a transaction other financial assets: and property, the exchange is accounted for as than b the contractual terms of the financial the sale of the loan and the acquisition of a business combination that at the time of the asset are solely payments of principal equity securities or investment property.
transaction affects neither accounting nor and interest on the outstanding balance.
Where the Groups interest in equity shares taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is following the exchange is such that the Group Fair value through profit or loss - a financial calculated using tax rates expected to apply in controls an entity, that entity is consolidated.
liability is measured at fair value if it arises the periods when the assets will be realised or from: a financial guarantee contract: a The costs of loss allowances on assets held the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and commitment to lend at below market rates: an at amortised cost are presented as laws enacted, or substantively enacted, at the obligation arising from the failed sale of an impairments in the income statement.
asset: or a contingent consideration for a Allowances in respect financial guarantees Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset business acquisition.
Fair value through profit and loan commitments are presented in where the Group has a legally enforceable or loss is the default classification for a administrative expenses.
right to offset and where they relate to income financial asset.
Impaired loans and receivables are written off, taxes levied by the same taxation authority Reclassifications financial liabilities cannot when the Group concludes that there is no either on an individual Group company or on be reclassified.
Financial assets are only longer any realistic prospect of recovery of Group companies in the same tax group that reclassified where there has been a change in part or all of the loan.
For loans that are intend, in future periods, to settle current tax the business model.
individually assessed for impairment, the liabilities and assets on a net basis or on a timing of write off is determined on a case-byFair value the fair value is the price that gross basis simultaneously.
Such loans are reviewed regularly would be received to sell an asset or paid to 13.
Financial instruments and write off will be prompted by bankruptcy, transfer a liability in an orderly transaction On initial recognition, financial instruments are insolvency, renegotiation and similar events.
between market participants at the measured at fair value.
Subsequently they are measurement date.
The typical time frames from initial impairment classified as follows: designated at fair value to write off for the Groups collectivelyBusiness model assessment business through profit or loss: amortised cost, the assessed portfolios are: models are assessed at portfolio level, being default class for liabilities: fair value through Retail mortgages: write off usually occurs the level at which they are managed.
This is profit or loss, the default class for assets: or within five years, or when an account is expected to result in the most consistent financial assets may be designated as at fair closed if earlier.
classification of assets because it aligns with value through other comprehensive income.
Credit cards: the irrecoverable amount is the stated objectives of the portfolio, its risk Regular way purchases of financial assets written off after 12 months: three years management, managers remuneration and classified as amortised cost are recognised on later any remaining amounts outstanding the ability to monitor sales of assets from a the settlement date: all other regular way are written off.
Overdrafts and other transactions in financial assets are recognised portfolio.
The criteria for classifying cash flows unsecured loans: write off occurs within six on the trade date.
as solely principal and interest are assessed years.
against the contractual terms of a facility, with Designated as at fair value through profit or Overdrafts and other unsecured loans: attention to leverage features: prepayment loss a financial instrument may be write off occurs within six years and extension terms: and triggers that might designated as at fair value through profit or Commercial loans: write offs are reset the effective rate of interest.
loss only if such designation a eliminates or determined in the light of individual 14.
Impairments significantly reduces a measurement or circumstances: the period does not exceed At each balance sheet date each financial recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a five years.
group of financial assets, financial liabilities or asset or portfolio of loans measured at Business loans are generally written off both, that the Group manages and evaluates amortised cost or at fair value through other within five years.
on a fair value basis: or c relates to a comprehensive income, issued financial 15.
Financial guarantee contracts financial liability that contains an embedded guarantee and loan commitment is assessed Under a financial guarantee contract, the for impairment.
Loss allowances are forwardderivative which is not evidently closely Group, in return for a fee, undertakes to meet looking, based on 12 month expected credit related to the host contract.
Financial assets a customers obligations under the terms of a losses where there has not been a significant that the Group designates on initial debt instrument if the customer fails to do so.
184 Accounting policies A financial guarantee is recognised as a recorded as a financial liability.
Securities asset or the entire contract is measured at fair liability: initially at fair value and, if not acquired in a reverse sale and repurchase value with changes in fair value recognised in designated as at fair value through profit or transaction under which the Group is not profit or loss.
loss, subsequently at the higher of its initial exposed to substantially all the risks and Gains and losses arising from changes in the value less cumulative amortisation and any rewards of ownership are not recognised on fair value of derivatives that are not the provision under the contract measured in the balance sheet and the consideration paid hedging instrument in a qualifying hedge are accordance with Accounting policy 13. is recorded as a financial asset.
recognised as they arise in profit or loss.
Amortisation is calculated so as to recognise Gains and losses are recorded in Income from Securities borrowing and lending transactions fees receivable in profit or loss over the period ordinary activities except for gains and losses are usually secured by cash or securities of the guarantee.
on those derivatives that are managed advanced by the borrower.
Loan commitments securities are not recognised on the balance together with financial instruments designated Provision is made for expected credit loss on sheet or lent securities derecognised.
Cash at fair value: these gains and losses are loan commitments, other than those classified collateral given or received is treated as a included in Other operating income.
Syndicated loan loan or deposit: collateral in the form of Group enters into three types of hedge commitments in excess of the level of lending securities is not recognised.
However, where relationship: hedges of changes in the fair under the commitment approved for retention securities borrowed are transferred to third value of a recognised asset or liability or by the Group are classified as held-for-trading parties, a liability for the obligation to return unrecognised firm commitment fair value and measured at fair value.
the securities to the stock lending hedges : hedges of the variability in cash counterparty is recorded.
flows from a recognised asset or liability or a 17.
Derecognition highly probable forecast transaction cash A financial asset is derecognised when the 19.
Netting flow hedges : and hedges of the net contractual right to receive cash flows from Financial assets and financial liabilities are investment in a foreign operation.
the asset has expired or when it has been offset and the net amount presented in the transferred and the transfer qualifies for balance sheet when, and only when, the Hedge relationships are formally designated derecognition.
A transfer requires that the Group currently has a legally enforceable right and documented at inception.
The Group either a transfers the contractual to set off the recognised amounts and it documentation identifies the hedged item and rights to receive the asset's cash flows: or b intends either to settle on a net basis or to the hedging instrument and details the risk retains the right to the asset's cash flows but realise the asset and settle the liability that is being hedged and the way in which assumes a contractual obligation to pay those simultaneously.
The Group is party to a effectiveness will be assessed at inception cash flows to a third party.
After a transfer, the number of arrangements, including master and during the period of the hedge.
If the Group assesses the extent to which it has netting agreements, that give it the right to hedge is not highly effective in offsetting retained the risks and rewards of ownership of offset financial assets and financial liabilities, changes in fair values or cash flows the transferred asset.
The asset remains on but where it does not intend to settle the attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the balance sheet if substantially all the risks amounts net or simultaneously, the assets the documented risk management strategy, and rewards have been retained.
It is and liabilities concerned are presented gross.
Hedge derecognised if substantially all the risks and 20.
Capital instruments accounting is also discontinued if the Group rewards have been transferred.
The Group classifies a financial instrument revokes the designation of a hedge If substantially all the risks and rewards have that it issues as a liability if it is a contractual relationship.
been neither retained nor transferred, the obligation to deliver cash or another financial Fair value hedge - in a fair value hedge, the Group assesses whether or not it has retained asset, or to exchange financial assets or gain or loss on the hedging instrument is control of the asset.
If the Group has retained financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss control of the asset, it continues to recognise terms and as equity if it evidences a residual on the hedged item attributable to the hedged the asset to the extent of its continuing interest in the assets of the Group after the risk is recognised in profit or loss and, where involvement: if the Group has not retained deduction of liabilities.
The components of a the hedged item is measured at amortised control of the asset, it is derecognised.
compound financial instrument issued by the cost, adjusts the carrying amount of the Group are classified and accounted for A financial liability is removed from the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is separately as financial assets, financial balance sheet when the obligation is discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the liabilities or equity as appropriate.
Incremental discharged, or is cancelled, or expires.
On the criteria for hedge accounting: or if the hedging costs and related tax that are directly redemption or settlement of debt securities instrument expires or is sold, terminated or attributable to an equity transaction are including subordinated liabilities issued by exercised: or if hedge designation is revoked.
the Group, the Group derecognises the debt If the hedged item is one for which the instrument and records a gain or loss being The consideration for any ordinary shares of effective interest rate method is used, any the difference between the debt's carrying the company purchased by the Group cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or amount and the cost of redemption or treasury shares is deducted from equity.
On loss over the life of the hedged item using a settlement.
The same treatment applies the cancellation of treasury shares their recalculated effective interest rate.
where the debt is exchanged for a new debt nominal value is removed from equity and any Cash flow hedge - in a cash flow hedge, the issue that has terms substantially different excess of consideration over nominal value is effective portion of the gain or loss on the from those of the existing debt.
The treated in accordance with the capital hedging instrument is recognised in other assessment of whether the terms of the new maintenance provisions of the Companies comprehensive income and the ineffective debt instrument are substantially different Act.
On the sale or reissue of treasury shares portion in profit or loss.
When the forecast takes into account qualitative and quantitative the consideration received and related tax are transaction results in the recognition of a characteristics including a comparison of the credited to equity, net of any directly financial asset or financial liability, the present value of the cash flows under the new attributable incremental costs.
cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from terms with the present value of the remaining 21.
Derivatives and hedging equity to profit or loss in the same periods in cash flows of the original debt issue In accordance with IAS 39 hedge which the hedged forecast cash flows affect discounted at the effective interest rate of the relationships, derivative financial instruments profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain original debt issue.
are initially recognised, and subsequently or loss is removed from equity and recognised 18.
Sale and repurchase transactions measured, at fair value.
in profit or loss at the same time as the Securities subject to a sale and repurchase hedged transaction.
Hedge accounting is A derivative embedded in a contract is agreement under which substantially all the discontinued if the hedge no longer meets the accounted for as a stand-alone derivative if its risks and rewards of ownership are retained criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging economic characteristics are not closely by the Group continue to be shown on the instrument expires or is sold, terminated or related to the economic characteristics of the balance sheet and the sale proceeds exercised: if the forecast transaction is no host contract: unless the host is a financial 185 Accounting policies longer expected to occur: or if hedge period during which all the specified vesting Effective 1 January 2019 designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance conditions must be satisfied with a IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 of hedge accounting except where a forecast corresponding increase in equity in an equityto replace IAS 17 Leases.
The Group will transaction is no longer expected to occur, settled award, or a corresponding liability in a apply the standard with effect from 1 January the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is cash-settled award.
Lessees will capitalise operating leases reclassified from equity to profit or loss when vesting conditions other than market through the recognition of assets representing the hedged cash flows occur or, if the forecast performance conditions so as to reflect the the contractual rights of use.
The present transaction results in the recognition of a number of shares or share options that value of contractual payments will be financial asset or financial liability, when the actually vest.
hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or If an award is modified, the original cost The Group has new models and processes to loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no continues to be recognised as if there had implement IFRS 16.
The most significant longer expected to occur, the cumulative been no modification.
Where modification impact from initially applying IFRS 16 will be unrealised gain or loss is reclassified from increases the fair value of the award, this to recognise rights of use assets in respect of equity to profit or loss immediately.
increase is recognised as an expense over branches and office properties leased by the Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation the modified vesting period.
A new award of Group under contracts classified as operating - in the hedge of a net investment in a foreign shares or share options is treated as the leases under IAS 17.
The present value of operation, the portion of foreign exchange modification of a cancelled award if, on the other contracts is immaterial.
The Group will differences arising on the hedging instrument date the new award is, the Group identifies apply IFRS 16 on a modified retrospective determined to be an effective hedge is them as replacing the cancelled award.
The basis without restating prior years and recognised in other comprehensive income.
cancellation of an award through failure to electing for the following exemptions on Any ineffective portion is recognised in profit meet non-vesting conditions triggers an transition at 1 January 2019.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as immediate expense for any unrecognised apply IFRS 16 to contracts previously well as derivatives may be the hedging element of the cost of an award.
identified as leases by IAS 17 instrument in a net investment hedge.
Cash and cash equivalents disposal or partial disposal of a foreign use the incremental borrowing rate as In the cash flow statement, cash and cash operation, the amount accumulated in equity the discount rate equivalents comprises cash and deposits with is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
not apply IFRS 16 to operating leases banks with an original maturity of less than with a remaining lease term of less than 22.
Associates and joint ventures three months together with short-term highly 12 months or low value leases non An associate is an entity over which the liquid investments that are readily convertible property leases Group has significant influence.
A joint to known amounts of cash and subject to venture is one which it controls jointly with insignificant risk of change in value.
rely on the assessment of whether the other parties.
Investments in associates and lease contract is onerous under IAS 37 Critical accounting policies and key interests in joint ventures are recognised at 31 December 2018 as an alternative sources of estimation uncertainty using the equity method.
They are stated to performing an impairment review of The reported results of the Group are initially at cost, including attributable goodwill, the right of use assets created on 1 sensitive to the accounting policies, and subsequently adjusted for postJanuary 2019 Where this is the case the assumptions and estimates that underlie the acquisition changes in the Groups share of carrying amount of the assets will be preparation of its financial statements.
adjusted by the onerous lease provision.
company law and IFRS require the directors, exclude initial direct costs from the in preparing the Group's financial statements, measurement of the right of use asset 23.
Share-based compensation to select suitable accounting policies, apply The Group operates a number of share-based them consistently and make judgements and The opening balance sheet at 1 January 2019 compensation schemes under which it awards estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In will be adjusted to create a right of use asset RBSG shares and share options to its the absence of an applicable standard or of approximately 1.3 billion.
Such awards are generally interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, will also be recognised of 1.9 billion.
subject to vesting conditions: conditions that Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, Retained earnings will decrease by 0.2 vary the amount of cash or shares to which an requires management to develop and apply billion after tax.
This will have an estimated employee is entitled.
Vesting conditions an accounting policy that results in relevant impact of 21 basis points on the CET 1 ratio.
include service conditions requiring the and reliable information in the light of the Application of IFRS 16 by the Group is not employee to complete a specified period of requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing expected to have a significant impact on service and performance conditions with similar and related issues and the IASB's lessor accounting or for finance lease requiring the employee to complete a Conceptual Framework for Financial accounting by lessees.
specified period of service and specified Reporting.
The judgements and assumptions Effective after 2019 performance targets to be met.
Other involved in the Group's accounting policies IFRS 17 Insurance contracts was issued in conditions to which an award is subject are that are considered by the Board to be the May 2017 to replace IFRS 4 and to establish non-vesting conditions such as a requirement most important to the portrayal of its financial a comprehensive standard for inceptors of to save throughout the vesting period.
The use of insurance policies.
The effective date is 1 estimates, assumptions or models that differ January 2021, subject to IASBs approval of a The cost of employee services received in from those adopted by the Group would affect deferral until 1 January 2022. exchange for an award of shares or share its reported results options is measured by reference to the fair In February 2018 the IASB amended IAS 19 Critical accounting policy Note value of the shares or share options on the Employee Benefits to clarify the need to Deferred tax 7 date the award is and takes into account nonupdate assumptions whenever there is a plan Fair value: financial instruments 12 vesting conditions and market performance amendment, curtailment or settlement.
Loan impairment provisions 14 conditions conditions related to the market Goodwill 16 price of RBSG shares : an award is treated as The Group is assessing the effect of adopting Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 vesting irrespective of whether any market these standards on its financial statements.
performance condition or non-vesting Accounting Developments condition is met.
The fair value of options is International Financial Reporting estimated using valuation techniques which Standards incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free A number of IFRSs and amendments to IFRS interest rates, the current share price and its were in issue at 31 December 2018 that expected volatility.
The cost is expensed on a would affect the Group from 1 January 2019 straight-line basis over the vesting period the or later 186
