Material contracts The company and its subsidiaries are party to The aggregate number of ordinary shares which Under the Framework and State Aid Deed, the various contracts in the ordinary course of the company may purchase from HM Treasury company also agreed to indemnify the business.
Material contracts include the under the Directed Buyback Contract will not Independent Body and HM Treasury, up to an following: exceed 4.99 per cent.
of the companys issued amount of 320 million collectively to cover share capital and the aggregate consideration to liabilities that may be incurred in implementing B Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital be paid will not exceed 4.99 per cent.
of the the Alternative Remedies Package.
The Agreement companys market capitalisation.
The price to be provisions of the indemnity to the Independent On 26 November 2009, the company and HM paid for each ordinary share will be the market Body are set out in the Framework and State Aid Treasury entered into the Acquisition and price at the time of purchase or, if the directed Deed and the provisions of the indemnity to HM Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which buyback is in conjunction with an institutional Treasury are set out in a separate agreement HM Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares placing, the placing price.
between the company and HM Treasury, and the Dividend Access Share the Acquisitions described under Deed of Indemnity below.
"and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's Framework and State Aid Deed contingent subscription the Contingent As a result of the State Aid granted to the The Framework and State Aid Deed also Subscription for an additional 8 billion in company, it was required to work with HM provides that if the EC adopts a decision that the aggregate in the form of further B shares the Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan UK Government must recover any State Aid a Contingent B shares, to be issued on the same to the European Commission EC, which was ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of terms as the initial B shares."
The Acquisitions then approved by the EC under the State Aid the Repayment Decision has not been annulled were subject to the satisfaction of various rules on 14 December 2009.
The company or suspended by the General Court or the conditions, including the company having agreed a series of measures which European Court of Justice, then the company obtained the approval of its shareholders in supplemented the measures in the companys must repay HM Treasury any aid ordered to be relation to the Acquisitions.
recovered under the Repayment Decision.
On 16 December 2013, the company announced The company entered into a State Aid Deed of Indemnity that, having received approval from the PRA, it Commitment Deed with HM Treasury at the time In the context of the Framework and State Aid had terminated the 8 billion Contingent of the initial EC decision and, following the ECs Deed, the company entered into a Deed of Subscription.
The company was able to cancel approval of amendments to the restructuring plan Indemnity with HM Treasury on 25 April 2018, the Contingent Subscription as a result of the in April 2014, the company entered into a revised pursuant to which the company agreed to actions announced in the second half of 2013 to State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury.
indemnify HM Treasury to cover liabilities that further strengthen its capital position.
In September 2017, the revised State Aid may be incurred in implementing the Alternative Commitment Deed was amended by a Deed of Remedies Package, as described under On 9 October 2015, the company announced Variation as so amended, the Revised State Aid Framework and State Aid Deed above.
that on 8 October 2015, it had received a valid Commitment Deed following the ECs approval conversion notice from HM Treasury in respect of Trust Deed of an alternative remedies package the all outstanding B shares held by HM Treasury.
In the context of the Framework and State Aid Alternative Remedies Package to replace the The new ordinary shares issued on conversion of Deed, the company entered into a Trust Deed companys final outstanding commitment under the B shares were admitted to the official list of with the Independent Body on 25 April 2018, to its State Aid obligations to divest the business the UK Listing Authority UKLA, and to trading set up a trust to administer the funds committed previously known as Williams & Glyn.
on the London Stock Exchange plc, on 14 by the company under the Framework and State October 2015.
Following such conversion, HM On 25 April 2018, the Revised State Aid Aid Deed for the Alternative Remedies Package.
Treasury no longer holds any B shares.
Commitment Deed was replaced by the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed Framework and State Aid Deed between the The company gave certain representations and Under the 2009 State Aid Costs Reimbursement company, HM Treasury and an independent warranties to HM Treasury on the date of the Deed, the company has agreed to reimburse HM body established to facilitate and oversee the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement, Treasury for fees, costs and expenses delivery of the Alternative Remedies Package on the date the circular was posted to associated with the State Aid and State Aid the Independent Body.
Under the Framework shareholders, on the first date on which all of the approval.
and State Aid Deed, the company agrees to do conditions precedent were satisfied, or waived, HMT and UKFI Relationship Deed all acts and things necessary to ensure that HM and on the date of the Acquisitions.
The On 7 November 2014, in order to comply with an Treasury is able to comply with its obligations company also agreed to a number of amendment to the UK Listing Rules, the under any EC decision approving State Aid to the undertakings.
company entered into a Relationship Deed with company, including under the Alternative The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury HM Treasury and UK Financial Investments Remedies Package.
for its expenses incurred in connection with the Limited in relation to the companys obligations Pursuant to the Framework and State Aid Deed, Acquisitions.
under the UK Listing Rules to put in place an the company has committed: i 425 million into agreement with any controlling shareholder as For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of a fund for eligible bodies in the UK banking and defined for these purposes in the Listing Rules.
the company within the meaning of the UKLAs financial technology sectors to develop and The Relationship Deed covers the three Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not improve their capability to compete with the independence provisions mandated by the to vote on related party transaction resolutions at company in the provision of banking services to Listing Rules: i that contracts between the general meetings and to direct that its affiliates small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs company and HM Treasury or any of its do not so vote.
and develop and improve the financial products subsidiaries will be arm's length and normal and services available to SMEs the Capability Directed Buyback Contract commercial arrangements, ii that neither HM and Innovation Fund : and ii 275 million to On 7 February 2019, the company and HM Treasury nor any of its associates will take any eligible bodies to help them incentivise SME Treasury entered into the Directed Buyback action that would have the effect of preventing banking customers within the division of the Contract to help facilitate the return of the the company from complying with its obligations company previously known as Williams & Glyn to company to full private ownership through the under the Listing Rules: and iii neither HM switch their business current accounts and loans use of any excess capital to buy back the Treasury nor any of its associates will propose or to the eligible bodies the Incentivised Switching companys ordinary shares held by HM Treasury.
procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution Scheme.
The company has also agreed to set which is intended or appears to be intended to Under the terms of the Directed Buyback aside up to a further 75 million in funding to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Contract, the company may agree with HM cover certain costs customers may incur as a Rules.
Treasury to make off-market purchases from time result of switching under the Incentivised to time of its ordinary shares held by HM Switching Scheme.
In addition, under the terms Treasury, including by way of one or more of the Alternative Remedies Package, should the standalone purchases, through a nonuptake within the Incentivised Switching Scheme discretionary, broker-managed directed trading not be sufficient, the company may be required to programme, or in conjunction with any offer or make a further contribution, capped at 50 sale by HM Treasury by way of an institutional million.
The Independent Body will distribute placing.
Neither the company nor HM Treasury funds from the Capability and Innovation Fund would be under an obligation to agree to make and implement the Incentivised Switching such off-market purchases and would only do so Scheme.
subject to regulatory approval at the time.
