Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Glossary Alternative Performance Measures Alternative Performance Measures Trading Profit The Group uses a number of Alternative Performance Trading Profit is defined as Trading EBITDA less Measures APMs, which are not required or commonly depreciation and amortisation, excluding amortisation reported under International Financial Reporting of acquired intangibles and has also been restated to Standards, the Generally Accepted Accounting exclude IAS19R current service costs.
Principles GAAP under which the Group prepares its It is reconciled to statutory profit before tax within the financial statements, but which are used by the Group Chief Financial Officers Review on page 37. to help the user of the accounts better understand the financial performance and position of the business.
This measure has been presented by the Group since the annual report published for the year ended Definitions for the primary APMs used in this report are 31 January 2016 and was used as part of the Groups set out below.
APMs are usually derived from financial transition from Trading EBITDA to Underlying Profit statement items and are calculated using consistent Before Tax as its key performance indicator.
Although accounting policies to those applied in the financial it is no longer one of the Groups key performance statements, unless otherwise stated.
indicators, it has been provided to ensure reporting APMs may not necessarily be defined in a consistent consistency with previous periods.
manner to similar APMs used by the Groups competitors.
Underlying earnings per share from They should be considered as a supplement rather than continuing operations a substitute for GAAP measures.
Underlying earnings per share from continuing Underlying Profit Before Tax operations represents basic earnings per share from Underlying Profit Before Tax represents profit before continuing operations excluding the post-tax effect tax from continuing operations excluding unrealised of unrealised fair value gains and losses on derivatives, fair value gains and losses on derivatives, the one-off the post-tax effect of the one-off non-cash costs costs associated with the unamortised facility fees associated with the unamortised facility fees of the of the previous banking facilities, the one-off previous banking facilities, the post-tax effect of the restructuring costs and the Ogden rate change one-off restructuring costs and the post-tax effect impact in the prior year.
of the Ogden rate change impact in the prior year.
It is reconciled to statutory profit before tax within the This measure is linked to the Groups key performance Chief Financial Officers Review on page 37. indicator Underlying Profit Before Tax and represents what management considers to be the underlying This measure is the Groups key performance indicator shareholder value generated in the period.
and is useful for presenting the Groups underlying trading performance, as it excludes non-cash Customer spend derivative adjustments and one-off financial impacts Customer spend represents the total amount that that are not expected to recur.
customers spent on products provided by the Saga Group of companies, including gross written premiums, Trading EBITDA ancillary income and Insurance Premium Tax for all of Trading EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest the core policies and add-ons sold in the period.
payable, tax, depreciation and amortisation, excluding amortisation of acquired intangibles.
It has also been Available operating cash flow restated to exclude the non-cash impact of IAS19R Available operating cash flow is net cashflow from current service costs, which have increased notably in operating activities after capital expenditure, but the year, in line with the Groups latest debt covenants.
before tax, interest paid and non-trading items, which is available to be used by the Group as it chooses and It is reconciled to statutory profit before tax within the is not subject to regulatory restriction.
It is reconciled Chief Financial Officers Review on page 37. to statutory net cash flow from operating activities within the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 40.
This measure has been presented by the Group in every annual report since it became a listed Group in 2014.
It is presented due to it being linked to the Groups debt covenants, as it is the denominator in the Groups leverage ratio calculation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 209
