FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Company accounting policies Parent Company profit and loss account No profit and loss account is presented for the Company Statement of compliance as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance Details of the average number of people employed by the parent with Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102 The Financial Company and the staff costs incurred by the Company are Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic as follows.
Average monthly number of people employed 2018 2017 including Directors number number Basis of accounting By segment: These financial statements are prepared on the going Northern Europe 112 305 concern basis, under the historical cost convention, and in 2018 2017 accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the Staff costs including Directors on service contracts m m more important Company accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Wages and salaries 10 10 The Company is deemed a qualifying entity under FRS 102, and Social security costs 2 1 so may take advantage of the reduced disclosures permitted under the standard.
As a result, the following disclosures have Post-employment benefits 1 not been provided: Share-based payments 2 3 a statement of cash flows and related disclosures under 15 14 Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows and Section 3 Financial Statement Presentation paragraph 3.17 d : Staff costs are net of recharges to other Group companies.
disclosures about financial instruments under Section 11 During the year a number of employees transferred to another Basic Financial Instruments paragraphs 11.41 b, 11.41 c, Group company.
11.48 b and 11.48 c and Section 12 Other Financial Instruments Issues paragraphs 12.26 in relation to those Auditors remuneration cross-referenced paragraphs from which a disclosure The audit fees payable in relation to the audit of the financial exemption is available, 12.27, 12.29 a, 12.29 b, and 12.29A: statements of the Company are 30,000 2017: 30,000. this exemption is permitted as equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of Directors remuneration The Sage Group plc: disclosures about share-based payments under Section 26 Details of the remuneration of Executive and Non-executive Share-based Payment paragraphs 26.18 b, 26.19 to 26.21 Directors and their interest in shares and options of the and 26.23: this exemption is permitted as the Company is an Company are given in the audited part of the Directors ultimate parent, the share-based payment arrangements Remuneration Report on pages 103 to 128. concern its own equity instruments, its separate financial statements are presented alongside the consolidated Share-based payments financial statements of The Sage Group plc and equivalent The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to disclosures are included in those consolidated financial certain employees and employees of its subsidiaries.
Equitystatements: and settled share-based payments granted to employees of the key management personnel compensation in total under Company are measured at fair value excluding the effect of Section 33 Related Party Disclosures paragraph 33.7. non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled Foreign currencies share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the Monetary assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies shares that will eventually vest allowing for the effect of non are translated into sterling at rates of exchange prevailing at market-based vesting conditions.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into sterling at the rate prevailing at the dates of the Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes or the Monte transactions.
All differences on exchange are taken to the profit Carlo pricing models.
The expected life used in the model has and loss account.
been adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and Investments behavioural considerations.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for any diminution in value.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 205 COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Company also provides certain employees and employees of its subsidiaries with the ability to purchase the Companys ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value at the date of the grant.
For awards made to its own employees, the Company records an expense, based on its estimate of the discount related to shares expected to vest, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
At the end of each reporting period, the entity revises its estimates for the number of options expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
For awards made to subsidiary employees, the fair value of awards made is recognised by the Company as an addition to the cost of investment in the employing subsidiary.
Intergroup recharges to the employing subsidiary, up to the fair value of awards made to employees of that subsidiary, subsequently reverse the increase to the cost of investment.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Financial instruments The accounting policy of the Company for financial instruments is the same as that shown in the Group accounting policies.
The Company is taking the exemption for financial instruments disclosure, because disclosures are provided under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in note 14 to the Group financial statements.
Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity when approved by the Companys shareholders or on payment, whichever is earlier.
206 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
