GLOSSARY Non-GAAP measures Measure Description Why we use it Underlying Underlying measures are adjusted to exclude items which would distort the Underlying measures allow management and understanding of the performance for the year or comparability between periods: investors to compare performance without the potentially distorting effects of foreign Recurring items purchase price adjustments including amortisation of acquired exchange movements, one-off items or intangible assets and adjustments made to reduce deferred income arising on non-operational items.
acquisitions, acquisition-related items, FX on intercompany balances and fair value adjustments: and By including part-period contributions from Non-recurring items that management judge to be one-off or non-operational such acquisitions, discontinued operations, as gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, and disposals and assets held for sale of restructuring related costs.
standalone businesses in the current and or prior periods, the impact of M&A decisions on All prior period underlying measures revenue and profit are retranslated at the current earnings per share growth can be evaluated.
year exchange rates to neutralise the effect of currency fluctuations.
Organic In addition to the adjustments made for underlying measures, organic measures Organic measures allow management and exclude the contribution from discontinued operations, disposals and assets held for investors to understand the like-for-like sale of standalone businesses in the current and prior period and include acquired revenue and current period margin businesses from the beginning of the financial year following their year of acquisition.
performance of the continuing business.
Adjustments are made to the comparative period to present acquired businesses as ifthese had been part of the Group throughout the prior period.
Acquisitions and disposals which occurred close to the start of the opening comparative period where the contribution impact would be immaterial are notadjusted.
Please note that organic operating profit margin as reported is not necessarily comparable from period to period.
Underlying cash flow from operating activities Underlying cash flow from operating activities is underlying operating profit adjusted To calculate underlying cash conversion for underlying non-cash items, net capex excluding business combinations and similar which informs management and investors items and changes in working capital.
about the cash operating cycle of the business and how efficiently operating profit is converted into cash.
Free cash flow Underlying cash flow from operating activities plus non-recurring cash items, less cash As an indicator of the ability of the company to interest and cash tax.
turn revenue into cash and therefore the quality of revenue.
Underlying as reported Where prior period underlying measures are included without retranslation at current This measure is used to report comparative period exchange rates, they are labelled as underlying as reported.
figures for external reporting purposes whereit would not be appropriate to retranslate.
For instance, on the face ofprimary financial statements.
EBITDA EBITDA is defined as underlying operating profit excluding depreciation, amortisation As a measure of operating profit excluding and share-based payments.
EBITDA is used to calculate our net debt leverage.
Adjusted EPS The Adjusted EPS is the underlying basic EPS adjusted for the impact of significant The Adjusted EPS measure allows acquisitions and disposals by excluding current period acquisitions and current and management and investors to compare prior period disposals and by including prior year acquisitions in the comparable period performance without the distorting based on the margin achieved by the acquired business in the prior year for the effectsarising from significant post-acquisition period.
Annualised recurring revenue ARR Annualised recurring revenue ARR is the normalised reported recurring revenue As a forward looking revenue measure that inthe last month of the reporting period, adjusted consistently period to period, represents the annualised value of that part of multiplied by twelve.
Adjustments to normalise reported recurring revenue include the current revenue base will be carried into thosecomponents that management has assessed should be excluded in order future periods.
We will start to disclose more toensure the measure reflects that part of the contracted revenue base which ARR measures during the course of FY19 as subject to ongoing use and renewal can reasonably be expected to repeat in itis a good indicator of the momentum of futureperiods such as non-refundable contract sign-up fees.
210 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Measure Description Why we use it Annual contract value Annual contact value ACV is the value of recurring and renewable bookings that will As a measure of new recurring bookings that be generated over a twelve-month period under a given contract or contracts.
can be compared across different contract durations monthly, annual, multi-year and types maintenance and subscription.
Return on Capital Employed ROCE is calculated as underlying operating profit reduced by the amortisation of As an indicator of the current period financial acquired intangibles, divided by Capital Employed.
return on the capital invested in the Company.
ROCE will be used as an underpin to the ARR element of the FY19 PSP awards.
Capital Employed Capital Employed is calculated as the average of the opening and closing balance for As the basis for calculating ROCE.
the period total net assets, excluding net debt, provisions for non-recurring costs and tax assets or liabilities.
Revenue Type Description Recurring revenue Subscription contracts Recurring revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where risks and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract, with the Maintenance and support contracts customer being unable to continue to benefit from the full functionality of the good or service without ongoing payments.
Subscription revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where the risk and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract.
In the event that the customer stops paying, they lose the legal right to use the software andthe Company has the ability to restrict the use of the product or service.
Subscription revenue and maintenance and support revenue are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract including non-specified upgrades, when included.
Revenue relating to future periods is classified as deferred income on the balance sheet to reflect the transfer of risk and reward.
Software and software-related services Perpetual software licences Perpetual software licences and specified upgrades revenue are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership relating to the licence have been transferred and it is Upgrades to perpetual licences probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Professional services This is when the goods have left the warehouse to be shipped to the customer or when electronic delivery has taken place.
Training Other product revenue which includes hardware and stationery is recognised as the products Hardware and stationery are shipped to the customer.
Other services revenue which includes the sale of professional services and training is recognised when delivered, or by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
This assessment is made by comparing the proportion of contract costs incurred to date to the total expected costs to completion.
Processing revenue Payment processing services Processing revenue is revenue earned from customers for the processing of payments or where Sage colleagues process our customers payroll.
Payroll processing services Processing revenue is recognised at the point that the service is rendered on a per transactionbasis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 211 GLOSSARY CONTINUED A&RC DTR HR Audit and Risk Committee Disclosure Guidance Human Resources andTransparencyRules AAMEA HCM EBITDA Africa Australia Middle East Asia Human Capital Management Earnings Before Interest Taxes AGM IFRS Depreciation and Amortisation Annual General Meeting International Financial EBT ReportingStandards API Employee Benefit Trust ISV Application Program Interface EPS Independent Software Vendor ASB Earnings Per Share KPI Annualised Subscriber Base ERP Key Performance Indicator C4L Enterprise Resource Planning LSE Customer For Life ESOS London Stock Exchange CAGR Executive Share Operating Scheme LTIP Compound Annual Growth Rate EU Long Term Incentive Plan CBC European Union NPS Customer Business Centre FCF Net Promoter Score CDP Free Cash Flow PBT Carbon Disclosure Project FY16 Profit Before Tax CFO Financial year ending 30 September PSP Chief Financial Officer 2016 Performance Share Plan CGU FY17 R&D Cash Generating Unit Financial year ending 30 September 2017 Research and Development CMD S&M FY18 Capital Markets Day Sales and Marketing Financial year ending 30 September CR 2018 SaaS Corporate Responsibility G&A Software as a Service CRM General and Administrative SSRS Customer Relationship Management GAC Software & Software Related Services DEFRA Global Accounting Core TSR Department for Environment, Food & GHG Rural Affairs Total Shareholder Return Green House Gas VSGM Vision, Strategy, Goals, Measures 212 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
