OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED 8 Investment in an associate This note presents information about the Groups investment in its associate, which is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control of those policies.
The Group determines whether it has significant influence based on the voting and any other rights it holds as a result of its investment and also any contractual arrangements in place.
Normally, if the Group holds over 20% of the voting rights of an entity without having control or joint control of that entity, the investment will be treated as an associate unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Accounting policy The Groups investment in its associate is accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment separately.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the associates profit or loss after tax and any non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
Any change in the Groups share of the associates other comprehensive income is presented as part of the Groups other comprehensive income.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any such changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of the associate is shown on the face of the income statement outside operating profit.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the investment is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss in the income statement.
The Group had no investments in associates at 30 September 2018 or 30 September 2017.
Prior to 17 March 2017, the Group held an investment in an associate that comprised 100% of the C Ordinary Shares of Fairsail Limited Fairsail.
On that date, the Group acquired in a business combination the remaining share capital of Fairsail, which subsequently changed its name to Sage People Limited.
During the year ended 30 September 2017, the Group recognised a gain of 13m on the remeasurement to fair value of the investment in the associate at the acquisition date, and a loss of 1m for the Groups share of the associates total comprehensive income for the period 1 October 2016 to 17 March 2017, comprising losses from continuing operations.
9 Working capital This note provides the amounts invested by the Group in working capital balances at the end of the financial year.
Working capital is made up of inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
Inventories mainly consist of warehouse stock of Sage products, awaiting shipment to business partners or distributors.
Trade and other receivables are made up of amounts owed to the Group by customers and amounts that we pay to our suppliers in advance.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad and doubtful debts.
Our trade and other payables are amounts we owe to our suppliers that have been invoiced to us or accrued by us.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer.
This note also gives some additional detail on the age and recoverability of our trade receivables, which provides an understanding of the credit risk faced by the Group as a part of everyday trading.
Credit risk is further disclosed in note 14.6.
174 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
