RESULTS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED 4 Income tax expense This note analyses the tax expense for this financial year which includes both current and deferred tax.
Current tax expense represents the amount payable on this years taxable profits and any adjustments relating to prior years.
Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment to recognise liabilities or benefits that are expected to arise in the future due to differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
This note outlines the tax accounting policies, analyses the current and deferred tax expenses in the year and presents a reconciliation between profit before tax in the income statement multiplied by the UK rate of corporation tax and the tax expense for the year.
Accounting policy The taxation expense for the year represents the sum of current tax payable and deferred tax.
The expense is recognised in the income statement, in the statement of comprehensive income or in equity according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
Current tax payable or receivable is based on the taxable income for the period and any adjustment in respect of prior periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax arises due to certain temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases note 12.
2018 2017 Analysis of expense in the year Note m m Current income tax Current tax on profit for the year 103 98 Adjustment in respect of prior years 8 Current income tax on continuing operations 103 90 Current income tax on discontinued operations 13 103 103 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7 Impact of rate changes 4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 2 Deferred tax 12 5 The current year tax expense is split into the following: Underlying tax expense 123 115 Tax credit on adjustments between the underlying and statutory operating profit 17 30 Tax only adjustments between the underlying and statutory operating profit 3 Income tax expense on continuing operations 103 85 Income tax expense on discontinued operations 13 Income tax expense reported in income statement 103 98 2018 2017 m m Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge on actuarial gain on post-employment benefit obligations 1 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange movements 2 Total tax on items credited to other comprehensive income 1 Deferred tax charge relating to share options of 2m 2017: charge of 1m has been recognised directly in equity.
164 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The tax for the year is higher 2017: higher than the rate of UK corporation tax applicable to the Group of 19% 2017: 19.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2018 2017 m m Profit before income tax from continuing operations 398 342 Profit before income tax from discontinued operations 56 Total profit before income tax 398 398 Statutory profit before income tax multiplied by the rate of UK corporation tax of 19% 2017: 19.5% 76 78 Tax effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 6 Foreign tax rates in excess of UK rate of tax 26 38 US tax reform 3 Tax on disposals 9 Non-deductible expenses and permanent items 1 1 Other corporate taxes withholding tax, business tax 5 1 Tax incentive claims 5 2 Recognition of tax losses and amortisation 1 3 At the effective income tax rate of 26% 2017: 25% 103 98 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 103 85 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 13 103 98 The effective tax rate on statutory profit before tax was 26% 2017: 25%, whilst the effective tax rate on underlying profit before tax on continuing operations was 26% 2017: 26%.
The effective tax rate is higher than the UK corporation tax rate applicable to the Group primarily due to the geographic profile of the Group, the inclusion of local business taxes in the corporate tax expense offset by innovation tax credits for registered patents and research and development activities which are government tax incentives in a number of operating territories.
The Group recognises certain provisions and accruals in respect of tax which involve a degree of estimation and uncertainty where the tax treatment cannot finally be determined until a resolution has been reached by the relevant tax authority.
This approach resulted in providing 27m as at 30 September 2018 2017: 25m.
The carrying amount is sensitive to a number of issues which is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can take many years to resolve and assumptions on the likely outcome have therefore been made by management.
The nature of the assumptions made by management when calculating the carrying amounts relates to the estimated tax which could be payable as a result of decisions with tax authorities in respect of transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
In making the estimates, managements judgement was based on various factors including: the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries: the results of previous claims: and any changes to relevant tax environments.
When making this assessment, we utilise our specialist in-house tax knowledge and experience of similar situations elsewhere to confirm these provisions.
These judgements also take into consideration specialist tax advice provided by third-party advisers on specific items.
US Reform On 22 December 2017, the US President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which provides for significant and wide-ranging changes to the taxation of corporations.
The reforms are complex and regulations are required to prescribe their application.
Whilst the headline change is a reduction in the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a significant number of additional measures have been incorporated into the US law which increase taxes payable.
The most material tax adjustment included within these financial statements, as a result of the reduction in the Federal tax rate, is the recognition of a tax benefit of 4m due to a re-measurement of US deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new lower 21% federal tax rate.
This credit is offset by a transition charge of 1m.
The net credit of 3m is excluded from underlying earnings as a non-recurring credit.
The provisions and the regulations will continue to be monitored and evaluated as and when they are issued.
EU State Aid The Group is monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations including the EU Commissions announcement on 26 October 2017 that it will be opening a State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime.
The Group may be affected by the final outcome of the Commissions review, as will other UK-based multinational groups that have financing arrangements in line with the UKs current legislation.
We have calculated our maximum potential liability excluding penalties and interest to be 35m if the European Commissions review concludes that the Group Financing Exemption presents unlawful state aid and there are no successful appeals against the position.
Based upon advice taken, we consider that no provision is required at this time.
We will continue to monitor the position as the review develops.
