FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER NOTES 16 Acquisitions and disposals The following note outlines acquisitions and disposals during the year and the accompanying accounting policies.
Each acquisition or disposal during the year is discussed and the effects on the results of the Group are highlighted.
Additional disclosures are presented for disposals and planned disposals that qualify as businesses held for sale or for presentation as discontinued operations.
Accounting policy Acquisitions: The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, which is measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability are recognised in the income statement.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups total identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Any subsequent adjustment to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Acquisition-related items such as legal or professional fees are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Where the Group enters into put and call arrangements over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest until the ownership risks and rewards of those shares transfer to the Group.
Businesses held for sale and discontinued operations: The Group classifies the assets and liabilities of a business as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale of the business rather than through continuing use.
These assets and liabilities are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The criteria for classification as held for sale are met only when the sale is highly probable and the business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Actions required to complete the sale must indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes will be made to the plan or that the decision to sell will be withdrawn.
Management must be committed to the sale and completion must be expected within one year from the date of the classification.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are presented separately as current items in the consolidated balance sheet.
A business qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of the Group that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale, and: represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: and is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations in both the current and prior years and are presented as a single amount in the consolidated income statement as profit or loss on discontinued operations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 195 OTHER NOTES CONTINUED 16 Acquisitions and disposals continued 16.1 Acquisitions Measurement adjustments to business combinations reported using provisional amounts In the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017, the acquisition of Intacct Corporation was accounted for using provisional fair values as the initial accounting for acquired intangible assets and goodwill was incomplete due to the short period between the acquisition date and the approval of the Annual Report.
During the current year, the accounting for the acquisition has been finalised, resulting in the following revisions to the provisional amounts: Previously reported provisional fair Measurement values adjustments Final fair values Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired m m m Intangible assets 142 142 Property, plant and equipment 5 5 Cash 2 2 Trade and other receivables 14 14 Other financial assets 1 1 Trade and other payables 10 10 Deferred income 18 18 Borrowings 9 9 Deferred tax liability 23 21 2 Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 104 21 125 Goodwill 523 21 502 Total consideration 627 627 The adjustments arise as a result of new information that has been obtained that would have affected the measurement of the provisional amounts.
Therefore, the prior year financial statements have been restated so that they are presented as if the final fair values were recognised as at the date of the acquisition, 3 August 2017.
The adjustments to deferred tax and goodwill identified above are reflected in the restated balance sheet for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Acquisitions made during the current year On 28 March 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the equity capital of Budgeta Inc. a provider of a budgeting and forecasting solution, for cash consideration of 8m.
The value of net assets acquired was 8m, comprising intangible technology assets of 11m and deferred tax liabilities of 3m.
When the Group reported its results for the six months ended 31 March 2018, provisional fair values were used for accounting for the acquisition.
Subsequently, the accounting has been finalised, resulting in an increase in the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired of 8m, with a corresponding decrease in the amount of goodwill.
The increase in net assets acquired relates to the recognition of the intangible assets and deferred tax liabilities identified above.
16.2 Costs relating to business combinations in the year Costs directly relating to completion of the business combinations in the year of 1m 2017: 10m have been included in selling and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
These acquisition-related items relate to completed transactions and include advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting services.
16.3 Disposals and discontinued operations Disposals made during the current year On 30 November 2017, the Group sold its subsidiary Sage XRT Brasil Ltda XRT.
Net assets divested were 1m, and the transaction resulted in a loss on disposal of 1m.
The assets and liabilities of XRT were presented as held for sale in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Prior to disposal, the business formed part of the Groups International reporting segment.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale The Group had no discontinued operations during the year ended 30 September 2018.
Assets and liabilities held for sale relate to the subsidiaries forming the Groups US-based payroll outsourcing business, which was classified as held for sale during the year.
The sale is expected to be finalised during the year ending 30 September 2019.
The business forms part of the Groups North America reportable segment.
Upon disposal, the income in relation to cumulative foreign exchange differences that have been recognised in other comprehensive income relating to the assets and liabilities of the business from the date of its acquisition to the date of disposal will be recycled to the income statement.
Assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 September 2017 relate to the Groups subsidiary Sage XRT Brasil Ltda which was sold on 30 November 2017.
196 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
