FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a component of the financial statements have been incorporated into the relevant note.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of The Sage Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where adopted IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost convention relate to derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity, which is usually from date of acquisition.
The prior year consolidated balance sheet and related notes have been restated for the finalisation of provisional amounts recognised in respect of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to the acquisition of Sage Intacct that completed on 3 August 2017.
Details are set out in note 16.1.
All figures presented are rounded to the nearest m, unless otherwise stated.
New or amended accounting standards.
There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 73.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period, except for foreign currency movements on intercompany balances where settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange movements on external borrowings which are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its related subsidiaries are recognised in the translation reserve.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups subsidiaries outside of the UK are translated into sterling using period-end exchange rates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Where differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in other comprehensive income and the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions by management.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are described below.
The judgements and managements rationale in relation to these accounting estimates and judgements are assessed and where material in value or in risk, are discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee.
Revenue recognition Approximately 35% of the Companys revenue is generated from sales to partners rather than to end users.
The key judgement in accounting for the three principal ways in which our business partners are remunerated is determining whether the business partner is a customer of the Group in respect of the initial product sale.
The key criteria in this determination is whether the business partner has paid for and taken on the risks and rewards of ownership of the software product from Sage.
At this point the business partner is able to sell on the licence to the end user at a price of its determination and consequently bears the credit risk of the onward sale.
Where the business partner is a customer of Sage, there are two ways in which they can be remunerated.
Firstly, there are discounts granted as a discount from the list price.
These discounts are negotiated between the Company and the business partner prior to the sale and invoices are raised, and revenue booked is based on the discounted price.
Secondly, there are further discounts given to business partners for subsequent renewals or increased sales to the end user.
These discounts are recognised as a deduction from the incremental revenue earned.
Where the business partner is not a customer of Sage and their part in the sale has simply been in the form of a referral, they are remunerated in the form of a commission payment.
These payments are treated as a cost within selling and administrative costs.
A critical accounting estimate is the recognition and deferral of revenue on bundled products, for example the sale of a perpetual licence with an annual maintenance and support contract.
When products are bundled together for the purpose of sale, the associated revenue, net of all applicable discounts, is allocated between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
The Group has a systematic basis for allocating relative fair values in these situations, based upon published list prices.
Goodwill impairment A key judgement is the ongoing appropriateness of the cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the current year CGUs were assessed in the context of the Groups evolving business model, the Sage strategy and the shift to global product development.
The Groups management structure has evolved during the year and as a result certain CGUs have been grouped together for the purposes of goodwill monitoring and impairment testing.
Subject to this change, it was determined that the use of CGUs based on geographical area of operation remains appropriate.
The allocation of goodwill on the acquisition of Sage Intacct to the CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition, required significant judgement.
This was made on the basis of where Sage Intacct products are expected to be introduced in these territories in future years.
The assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the CGUs being tested for impairment is a source of estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business average medium-term revenue growth and long-term growth rate as well as the discount rate to be applied in the calculation.
These key assumptions used in performing the impairment assessment, and further information on the level at which goodwill is monitored and the allocation of goodwill from Sage Intacct, are disclosed in note 6.1. Business combinations When the Group completes a business combination, the consideration transferred for the acquisition and the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are recognised at their fair values.
The amount by which the consideration exceeds the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
The application of accounting policies to business combinations involves the use of estimates.
There have been no significant business combinations in the year which required significant use of estimates.
During the prior year, the Group made two significant business combinations in which it acquired Sage Intacct formerly Intacct Corporation and Sage People formerly Fairsail Limited.
Estimates were required in the measurement of the intangible assets recognised for both acquisitions and of deferred income for Sage Intacct.
The Group engaged external experts to support these assessments.
Management concluded that the intangible assets acquired that qualified for recognition separately from goodwill were customer relationships, technology and, additionally for Intacct, brands.
The fair values of customer relationships were determined using the excess earnings method, technology and brands using the relief from royalty method, and deferred income using a bottom-up approach.
These valuation techniques require a number of key assumptions including revenue forecasts and the application of an appropriate discount rate to state future cash flows at their present value.
150 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amounts recognised for Intacct at 30 September 2017 were provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition date to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
During the current year, these amounts have been finalised resulting in adjustments to the amount of deferred tax and goodwill arising on the acquisition.
An explanation of the changes and the impact on the prior year consolidated balance sheet is set out in note 16.
The note also includes an explanation of the accounting policy applied to business combinations.
Future accounting standards The Directors also considered the impact on the Group of new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments.
The following revised and new accounting standards, all of which have been adopted by the EU, may have a material impact on the Group.
They are currently issued but not effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September 2018: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: and IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 will be effective for the Group starting 1 October 2018 and will replace the current requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The main changes introduced by the new standard are new classification and measurement requirements for certain financial assets, a new expected loss model for the impairment of financial assets, revisions to the hedge accounting model and amendments to disclosures.
The changes are generally to be applied retrospectively, but the standard allows an option not to restate comparatives.
Transition to IFRS 9 will have only a limited impact for the Group arising from the change in impairment loss model applied to trade receivables.
The Group will adopt the standards simplified approach to provide for lifetime expected credit losses at the date of initial recognition.
Currently credit losses are not recognised until there is an indicator of impairment.
The Group will use a matrix approach to determine the provisions, with default rates assessed for each country in which the Group operates.
The Group has made the following elections on transition to IFRS 9: The Group will not restate comparatives and will recognise the cumulative impact of implementing the standard in equity at the date of transition: The Group will continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of those in IFRS 9: The Group will classify its unquoted equity investment as at fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a result, changes in fair value will continue to be recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income when they arise, but the cumulative gain or loss will not be reclassified to profit or loss when the investment is derecognised.
The impact to be recognised in equity by the Group on transition to IFRS 9 is a 6m reduction in net assets arising from an increase in the impairment provision against trade receivables.
No material impact is expected from implementing IFRS 9 on the consolidated income statement or on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
IFRS 15 IFRS 15 is effective for the Group starting 1 October 2018.
The new standard prescribes a principle-based approach to accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers as well as additional reporting disclosures.
The standard replaces all previous revenue-related requirements under IFRS.
In order to implement the new standard, a project has been undertaken across Sages markets to develop new revenue recognition policies and adjust relevant business processes and systems for data collection and reporting where necessary.
The standard permits a choice of two possible transition methods for the initial application of the new requirements: 1 retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, or 2 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognised on the date of initial application, being 1 October 2018 for the Group the cumulative catch-up approach.
The Group will adopt the cumulative catch-up approach and the practical expedient to apply the new standard only to contracts that had not been completed by 1 October 2018.
The cumulative effect of initial application will be recognised as an adjustment to the balance of retained earnings at 1 October 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Differences between current accounting policies and IFRS 15 Several differences between the Groups current accounting policies and its IFRS 15 based policies have been identified.
The most significant of these are as follows.
Unbundling of subscription software and related maintenance and support contracts for on-premise products IFRS 15 introduces a new concept of performance obligations.
This requires changes to the way the transaction price is allocated to separately identifiable components of a bundle within a contract, which can impact the timing of recognising revenue.
As a result, the revenue recognition pattern changes for certain on-premise subscription contracts, which combine the delivery of software and support services and the obligation to deliver, in the future, unspecified software upgrades under a maintenance contract.
Under current policies, the Group recognises the entire price as revenue on a straight-line basis over the subscription term.
Under IFRS 15, a portion of the transaction price will be recognised upon delivery of the initial software at the outset of the arrangement with the remainder recognised over the term of the contract due to the fact that these are deemed to be separate performance obligations.
Non-refundable contract sign up fees In some cases, customers pay a non-refundable contract sign-up fee when they enter into a new initial contract for a software product, and no equivalent fee is payable on subsequent renewals.
As a result of paying the contract sign-up fee, the customer has an option to renew the contract and to pay a lower price on renewal than would have been the case had the contract sign-up fee not been paid.
Under IFRS 15, the fee is considered to provide the customer with a material right that the customer would not receive without having entered into the initial contract.
Therefore, the upfront fee is recognised as revenue over the anticipated period of benefit to the customer, which takes account of the likelihood of the customer renewing the contract.
Under current policies, the full amount of the contract sign-up fee is recognised as revenue when it is paid by the customer at the start of the initial contract.
Costs of obtaining customer contracts The Group incurs certain costs to obtain customer contracts.
Typically, such costs are commissions paid either to third party business partners or to internal sales employees.
Under IFRS 15, all incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are recognised as an asset on the balance sheet if the Group expects to recover those costs.
The costs are amortised over the period during which the related revenue is recognised, which may extend beyond the initial contract term where the Group expects to benefit from future renewals as a result of incurring the costs.
Under current policies, costs to obtain a contract are recognised as assets and amortised only if they are payable to a third-party agent and relate to a contract where revenue is recognised over time.
As a result, compared to current policies the amount recognised as an asset under IFRS 15 increases and the recognition of costs is deferred.
Business Partner Arrangements Under IFRS 15, the Group is required to assess whether it controls a good or service before it is transferred to the end customer to determine whether it is principal or agent in that transaction.
This is in contrast to the existing guidance which is focused on assessing whether the Group has the risks and rewards of a principal.
For Sage, the application of IFRS 15 results in a change in principal versus agent assessment for a number of business partner arrangements.
The Group has therefore identified an increase in the number of business partner arrangements where Sage is considered to be the principal under IFRS 15 with respect to the end customer.
As a result, there will be an increase in gross revenue recognition for these arrangements as the amounts payable to business partners will be classified as a cost of sale rather than a deduction to revenue.
Other immaterial differences have been identified and separately disclosed in the table below.
Accounting judgements and estimates The application of IFRS 15 to these and other aspects of accounting for revenue requires the Group to make certain judgements and estimates.
The most significant are: The establishment of standalone selling prices that are used as the basis for the apportionment of the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
This is a new concept introduced by IFRS 15 compared to current requirements and can impact the timing of revenue recognition.
Judgement is sometimes required to determine the standalone selling price particularly in respect of on-premise subscription offerings.
Where standalone selling prices for on-premise offerings are observable and consistent across the customer base, SSP estimates are derived from pricing history.
Where there are no directly observable estimates available, comparable products are utilised as a basis of assessment.
Determining the periods over which the costs of obtaining contracts are amortised and revenue from upfront fees is recognised.
The periods reflect the expected contract life including renewals.
Assumptions on renewals are based on historical renewal rates for the products and market concerned, adjusted for any identified likely change in renewal patterns.
The assessment of whether to report revenue gross or net for business partner arrangements.
The treatment depends on whether the business partner or the end user qualifies as Sages customer.
152 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Presentation and disclosures The changes in revenue and cost recognition noted above which impact the consolidated income statement will have a corresponding effect on the consolidated balance sheet, most significantly relating to the inclusion of capitalised commissions costs.
In addition, under IFRS 15 where amounts are invoiced in advance, the receivables and corresponding deferred income may not be recognised until the earlier of the service being provided and the payment falling due.
Management is currently in the process of assessing the extent of the impact and this reduction is not currently disclosed within the quantitative impact disclosure below.
In the year ending 30 September 2019, the cumulative effect of initial application will be recognised as an adjustment to the balance of retained earnings at the start of the year.
The adjustments arising from applying IFRS 15 rather than the current standard IAS 18 for the year ending 30 September 2019 will be disclosed for each line item in the financial statements.
The notes to the financial statements will contain additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures, as well as information on the accounting estimates and judgements made in respect of certain aspects of IFRS 15.
IFRS 15 is not expected to have any impact on net cash generated from operating activities.
Quantitative impact The Groups current estimate of the financial impact of the changes arising from IFRS 15 on the consolidated balance sheet on initial application is as follows.
30 September 2018 Unbundling of Non-refundable Costs of obtaining Restated As previously subscription contract sign-up customer Other Total IFRS 15 on adoption reported software fees contracts adjustments Tax impact adjustments of IFRS 15 m m m m m m m m Total assets 3,317 37 37 3,354 Total liabilities 1,990 22 21 6 9 14 2,004 Net assets 1,327 22 21 37 6 9 23 1,350 Equity retained earnings 1,327 22 21 37 6 9 23 1,350 The table above does not reflect the potential balance sheet presentation adjustments, currently being assessed by management, as discussed above.
Amounts are inclusive of tax movements but do not include the impact of adopting IFRS 9.
This impact is based on the assessments performed to date and may be revised as further analysis is performed before the reporting of financial information for periods including the date of initial application.
The impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application will significantly depend on its business and go-to-market strategy in the year ending 30 September 2019 and beyond.
IFRS 16 IFRS 16 will change lease accounting mainly for lessees and will replace the existing standard IAS 17.
An asset for the right to use the leased item and a liability for future lease payments will be recognised for all leases, subject to limited exemptions for short-term leases and low value lease assets.
The costs of leases will be recognised in the income statement split between depreciation of the lease asset and a finance charge on the lease liability.
This is similar to the existing accounting for finance leases, but substantively different to the existing accounting for operating leases under which no lease asset or lease liability is recognised and rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis as an operating expense.
The Group will adopt IFRS 16 on its effective date and the first financial year reported under the new standard will be the year commencing 1 October 2019.
The Group is currently reviewing the implications that this will have on its consolidated financial statements.
All of the Groups leases are currently accounted for as operating leases, and the most significant leases, by value, are those for rented office buildings.
The main impact on transition to the new standard will be a significant increase in the Groups total liabilities due to the recognition of a liability for the present value of future lease payments on these leases, and a corresponding increase in total assets for the right to use lease asset.
Information on the Groups operating lease commitments is disclosed in note 3.4, and the amount of operating lease rentals payable recognised as an expense within operating profit from continuing operations is included in note 3.2.
