FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Provisions This note provides details of the provisions recognised by the Group, where a liability exists of uncertain timing or amount.
The main estimates in this area relate to legal exposure, employee severance, onerous leases and dilapidation charges.
This section also explains the accounting policies applied and the specific judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at the value of these liabilities.
Accounting policy A provision is recognised only when all three of the following conditions are met: The Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event: It is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and A reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the present value of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer it to a third party.
Restructuring Legal Building Other Total m m m m m At 1 October 2017 21 10 34 3 68 Additional provision in the year 1 7 8 Provision utilised in the year 20 3 10 1 34 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 5 At 30 September 2018 2 11 22 2 37 Restructuring Legal Building Other Total m m m m m Maturity profile 1 year 2 8 14 2 26 1 2 years 1 3 4 2 5 years 2 1 3 5 years 4 4 At 30 September 2018 2 11 22 2 37 Restructuring provisions are for the estimated costs of Group restructuring activities and relate mainly to employee severance which remain unpaid at the balance sheet date.
These provisions will be utilised as obligations are settled which is generally expected to be within one year.
Legal provisions have been made in relation to ongoing disputes with third parties and other claims against the Group.
This includes the non-recurring litigation costs which remained unpaid at the balance sheet date see note 3.6.
The ageing of legal provisions is assessed regularly, based upon internal and external legal advice, as required.
Building provisions relate to dilapidation charges and onerous lease commitments.
The timing of the cash flows associated with building provisions is dependent on the timing of lease agreement termination.
Other provisions comprise mainly those for the costs of warranty cover provided by the Group in respect of products sold to third parties.
The timing of the cash flows associated with warranty provisions is spread over the period of warranty with the majority of the claims expected in the first year.
