RESULTS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED 3 Profit before income tax continued 3.5 Finance income and costs Accounting policy Finance income and costs are recognised using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement simultaneously with the recognition of an increase in a liability or the reduction in an asset.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances are recognised in the profit and loss account unless settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
2018 2017 m m Finance income: Interest income on short-term deposits 4 2 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 1 1 Fair value adjustments to debt-related financial instruments 7 Finance income 5 10 Finance costs: Finance costs on bank borrowings 14 7 Finance costs on US senior loan notes 17 19 Fair value adjustments to debt-related financial instruments 1 1 Amortisation of issue costs 2 1 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances Finance costs 34 28 Finance costs net 29 18 3.6 Adjustments between underlying and statutory results Accounting policy The business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis using underlying results.
To arrive at underlying results, certain adjustments are made for items that are individually important and which could, if included, distort the understanding of the performance for the year and the comparability between periods.
Management applies judgement in determining which items should be excluded from underlying performance.
Recurring items These are items which occur regularly but which management judge to have a distorting effect on the underlying results of the Group.
These items relate mainly to fair value adjustments on financial instruments and merger and acquisition M&A related activity, although other types of recurring items may arise.
M&A activity by its nature is irregular in its impact and includes amortisation, adjustments to acquired deferred income and acquisition and disposal-related costs, including integration costs relating to an acquired business and acquisition-related remuneration.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances that are charged through the income statement are excluded from underlying so that exchange rate impacts do not distort comparisons.
Recurring items are adjusted each year irrespective of materiality to ensure consistent treatment.
Non-recurring items These are items which are non-recurring and are adjusted on the basis of either their size or their nature.
These items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, and  costs.
As these items are one-off or non-operational in nature, management considers that they would distort the Groups underlying business performance.
162 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Recurring Non-recurring Total Recurring Non-recurring Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m M&A activity-related items Amortisation of acquired intangibles 35 35 22 22 Loss gain on disposal of subsidiary 1 1 3 3 Adjustment to acquired deferred income 11 11 5 5 Other M&A activity-related items 21 21 22 22 Other items Litigation items 4 4 Restructuring costs 5 5 Business transformation costs 73 73 Total adjustments made to operating profit 67 10 77 49 70 119 Fair value adjustments 1 1 6 6 Gain on remeasurement of existing investment in an associate 13 13 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1 1 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 1 1 1 1 Total adjustments made to profit before income tax 67 10 77 43 57 100 Recurring items Acquired intangibles are assets which have previously been recognised as part of business combinations.
These assets are predominantly brands, customer relationships and technology rights.
Further details including specific accounting policies in relation to these assets can be found in note 6.2.
The adjustment to acquired deferred income represents the additional revenue that would have been recorded in the year had deferred income not been reduced as part of the purchase price allocation adjustment made for business combinations.
Other M&A activity-related items relate to completed transaction costs and include advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting services as well as acquisition-related remuneration and directly attributable integration costs.
The main costs relate to the prior year acquisition of Intacct Corporation and Sage People Limited and acquisitions in the year, see note 16.
The fair value adjustments comprise a charge of 1m 2017: 1m in relation to an embedded derivative asset which relates to contractual terms agreed as part of the US private placement debt.
In 2017 there was a credit of 7m relating to a fair value adjustment of financial assets.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles below operating profit relates to the Groups share of the amortisation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of an investment in an associate accounted for under the equity method.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances of 1m 2017: credit of 1m occurs due to retranslation of intercompany balances other than those where settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future.
The balance arises in the current year due to fluctuation in exchange rates, predominately the movement in Euro and US Dollar compared to sterling.
Non-recurring items Net charges in respect of non-recurring items amounted to 10m 2017: 57m.
The adjustment relating to litigation costs of 4m 2017: nil relates to two specific employment related matters that, based on the Groups experience, are one-off in nature.
Both cases were agreed post year-end, with settlement expected within the next financial year.
All other litigation costs which have been incurred through the normal course of business are included within underlying operating profit.
Restructuring costs of 5m 2017: nil relate to costs arising from the restructure of parts of the senior leadership team.
The restructuring charge related to the costs incurred in the consolidation and reduction of certain layers of the Groups management structure.
Costs relating to all other workforce rationalisation and replacement are included within underlying operating profit.
Charges of nil 2017: 73m have been incurred as a result of the implementation of the business transformation strategy, which completed by 30 September 2017.
The prior year charge comprised people-related reorganisation charges of 32m, net property exit costs of 14m and other directly attributable costs, mainly relating to consultancy, contractor and asset write downs, of 27m.
These charges were one-off in nature as they were incurred to deliver the transformation.
Total cash paid in relation to the business transformation strategy totalled 31m 2017: 72m in the year.
Details of loss on disposal of subsidiary can be found in note 16.3.
In the prior year, the gain on disposal of subsidiary related to the sale of Syska, and the gain on remeasurement of existing investment in an associate related to the acquisition of Sage People formerly Fairsail.
See note 4 for the tax impact of these adjustments.
