FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 Profit before income tax This note sets out the Groups profit before tax, by looking in more detail at the key operating costs, including a breakdown of the costs incurred as an employer, research and development costs, the cost of the external audit of the Groups financial statements and finance costs.
This note also sets out the Groups revenue recognition policy.
In addition, this note analyses the future amounts payable under operating lease agreements, which the Group has entered into as at the year end.
These commitments are not included as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
This note also provides a breakdown of any material recurring and non-recurring items that have been reported separately on the face of the income statement.
3.1 Revenue Accounting policy Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other salesrelated taxes.
The Group reports revenue under three revenue categories and the basis of recognition for each category is described below: Category and Examples Accounting Treatment Recurring revenue Recurring revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where risks and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term Subscription contracts of a contract, with the customer being unable to continue to benefit from the full Maintenance and support contracts functionality of the good or service without ongoing payments.
Subscription revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision of a good or service, where the risk and rewards are transferred to the customer over the term of a contract.
In the event that the customer stops paying, they lose the legal right to use the software and the Company has the ability to restrict the use of the product or service.
Subscription revenue and maintenance and support revenue are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract including non-specified upgrades, when included.
Revenue relating to future periods is classified as deferred income on the balance sheet to reflect the transfer of risk and reward.
Software and software-related services Perpetual software licences and specified upgrades revenue are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership relating to the licence have been transferred Perpetual software licences and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow Upgrades to perpetual licences to the Group.
This is when the goods have left the warehouse to be shipped to the Professional services customer or when electronic delivery has taken place.
Training Other product revenue which includes hardware and stationery is recognised as the Hardware and stationery products are shipped to the customer.
Other services revenue which includes the sale of professional services and training is recognised when delivered, or by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period.
This assessment is made by comparing the proportion of contract costs incurred to date to the total expected costs to completion.
Processing revenue Processing revenue is revenue earned from customers for the processing of payments or where Sage colleagues process our customers payroll.
Payment processing services Processing revenue is recognised at the point that the service is rendered on a per Payroll processing services transaction basis.
When products are bundled together before being sold to the customer, it is necessary to apply the recognition criteria to the separately identifiable components of a single transaction in order to reflect the substance of the transaction.
The associated revenue is allocated between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
When customers are offered discounts on bundled products and or services, the combined discount is allocated to the constituent elements of the bundle, based upon publically available list prices.
