RESULTS FOR THE YEAR CONTINUED 3 Profit before income tax continued 3.5 Finance income and costs Accounting policy Finance income and costs are recognised using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement simultaneously with the recognition of an increase in a liability or the reduction in an asset.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances are recognised in the profit and loss account unless settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
2018 2017 m m Finance income: Interest income on short-term deposits 4 2 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances 1 1 Fair value adjustments to debt-related financial instruments 7 Finance income 5 10 Finance costs: Finance costs on bank borrowings 14 7 Finance costs on US senior loan notes 17 19 Fair value adjustments to debt-related financial instruments 1 1 Amortisation of issue costs 2 1 Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances Finance costs 34 28 Finance costs net 29 18 3.6 Adjustments between underlying and statutory results Accounting policy The business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis using underlying results.
To arrive at underlying results, certain adjustments are made for items that are individually important and which could, if included, distort the understanding of the performance for the year and the comparability between periods.
Management applies judgement in determining which items should be excluded from underlying performance.
Recurring items These are items which occur regularly but which management judge to have a distorting effect on the underlying results of the Group.
These items relate mainly to fair value adjustments on financial instruments and merger and acquisition M&A related activity, although other types of recurring items may arise.
M&A activity by its nature is irregular in its impact and includes amortisation, adjustments to acquired deferred income and acquisition and disposal-related costs, including integration costs relating to an acquired business and acquisition-related remuneration.
Foreign currency movements on intercompany balances that are charged through the income statement are excluded from underlying so that exchange rate impacts do not distort comparisons.
Recurring items are adjusted each year irrespective of materiality to ensure consistent treatment.
Non-recurring items These are items which are non-recurring and are adjusted on the basis of either their size or their nature.
These items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, and  costs.
As these items are one-off or non-operational in nature, management considers that they would distort the Groups underlying business performance.
162 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
