FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 1 Basis of preparation and critical accounting estimates and judgements Accounting policies applicable across the financial statements are shown below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a component of the financial statements have been incorporated into the relevant note.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of The Sage Group plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except where adopted IFRS require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations from the historical cost convention relate to derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared at the end of the reporting period.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across the Group.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity, which is usually from date of acquisition.
The prior year consolidated balance sheet and related notes have been restated for the finalisation of provisional amounts recognised in respect of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to the acquisition of Sage Intacct that completed on 3 August 2017.
Details are set out in note 16.1.
All figures presented are rounded to the nearest m, unless otherwise stated.
New or amended accounting standards.
There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 73.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlements of monetary items and on the retranslation of monetary items are included in profit or loss for the period, except for foreign currency movements on intercompany balances where settlement is not planned or likely in the foreseeable future, in which case they are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange movements on external borrowings which are designated as a hedge of the net investment in its related subsidiaries are recognised in the translation reserve.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups subsidiaries outside of the UK are translated into sterling using period-end exchange rates.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Where differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in other comprehensive income and the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in other comprehensive income are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale, with the exception of exchange differences recorded in equity prior to the transition to IFRS on 1 October 2004, in accordance with IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
