Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time, thefinancial statements comply with the Companies Jersey thefinancial position of the Company.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance ofthe group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the with applicable law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements, statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards theperformance, strategy and business model of the Company.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the inpreparing these financial statements.
state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the Group forthat period.
Statement as a result of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules ofthe Financial Conduct Authority: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework the parent Company and its undertakings included in the for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In consolidation taken as a whole: and virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair view compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also of the development and performance of the business and the required to: position of the Company and the undertakings included in the properly select and apply accounting policies: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and This responsibility statement has been approved by the Board of understandable information: Directors of Sanne Group plc on 21 March 2019 and is signed on its behalf by: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Dean Godwin James Ireland The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 21 March 2019 21 March 2019 101 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
