Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2018 1.
General information Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group is a global real estate services Group.
The Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Europe, Asia Pacific, North America, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 36,981 staff worldwide.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2019.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
2.1 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of equity investments held at fair value and derivative financial instruments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5.
2.2 Use of non-GAAP measures The Group believes that the consistent presentation of underlying profit before tax, underlying effective tax rate, underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share provides additional useful information to shareholders on the underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group over time.
The underlying measures are also used by Savills for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
All the adjustments made to the GAAP measures are considered exceptional and or non-operational in nature.
These terms are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly-titled profit measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, earnings or taxation being reported excluding the impact pre and post-tax where applicable of the following items: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software The difference between IFRS 2 charges related to outstanding bonus-related deferred share awards and the estimated value of the current year bonus pool expected to be allocated to deferred share awards refer to Note 9 for further explanation Items that are considered exceptional by size or nature including restructuring costs, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets and investments and profits or losses arising on disposals of subsidiaries and other investments Significant acquisition costs related to business combinations.
The underlying effective tax rate represents the underlying income tax expense expressed as a percentage of underlying profit before tax.
The underlying income tax expense is the income tax expense excluding the tax effect of the adjustments made to arrive at underlying profit before tax and other tax effects related to these adjustments.
Underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share both utilise the underlying profit after tax measure instead of GAAP earnings.
The weighted average number of shares remain the same as the GAAP measure.
A reconciliation between GAAP and underlying measures are set out in Note 9 underlying profit before tax and Note 15.2 underlying basic earnings per share and underlying diluted earnings per share.
The Group also refers to revenue and underlying profit on a constant currency basis which are both non-GAAP measures.
Constant currency results are calculated by translating the current year revenue and underlying profit using the prior year exchange rates.
This measure allows the Group to assess the results of the current year compared to the prior year, excluding the impact of foreign currency movements.
Savills plc 103 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.3 Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at cost, less any provision for impairment.
b Acquisition of subsidiaries The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration only applies to situations where contingent payments are not dependent on future employment of vendors.
Payments dependent on future employment are expensed to the income statement over the relevant period of employment as required by IFRS 3 revised.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
c Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
d Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to control any retained interest in a subsidiary, the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
e Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 18.1.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
Dividends received or receivable from associates are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The carrying amount of associates is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy described in Note 2.9.
Savills plc 104 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements f Joint arrangements The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
Dividends received or receivable from joint ventures are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The carrying amount of joint ventures is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy described in Note 2.9.
2.4 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it operates, the matrix approach of disclosing both the business and geographical segments format is used.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis that they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are recognised in the income statement, except for equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
c Group entities The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the Groups presentational currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly to the foreign exchange reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign exchange reserve is transferred to the income statement.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Savills plc 105 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold property 50 years Short leasehold property less than 50 years Over unexpired term of lease Equipment and motor vehicles 310 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
2.7 Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 16.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
2.8 Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations and incremental contract costs are valued at fair value on acquisition and amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on acquisition is determined by third party valuation where the acquisition is significant.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: It is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use Management intends to complete the software product and use or sell it There is an ability to use or sell the software product It can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits Adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available The expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Savills plc 106 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: Customer relationships 315 years Order backlogs 2 years Contracts investment, property management and other existing business contracts 220 years Brands 2 years Computer software 37 years Acquired investment management contracts relating to open-ended funds have been attributed indefinite useful lives, reflecting the open-ended nature of the funds, the Groups intention to continue with the management of the funds for the foreseeable future and the expectation that these contracts are expected to generate net cash inflows for the Group for this foreseeable period.
2.9 Impairment of other non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation or depreciation and are tested annually for impairment or whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Prior impairments of non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow method, with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific risks associated with the asset.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
2.10 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups statement of financial position at fair value or amortised cost when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is discussed in paragraphs 2.112.16.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another party.
On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the assets carrying amount and the sum of consideration received is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
2.11 Equity investments Classification of equity investments at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI The Group has made an irrevocable election at initial recognition for certain equity investments to be classified as FVOCI.
Changes in fair value are recognised through other comprehensive income rather than profit or loss.
Dividends from these investments are recognised in profit or loss.
When such investments are disposed of or become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, recognised in other comprehensive income, are reclassified to retained earnings and will not be recycled to the income statement.
Accounting policy applied prior to 1 January 2018 Under IAS 39 prior to transition to IFRS 9, these investments were categorised as available-for-sale investments and were stated at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
When such investments were disposed of or became impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, were recognised in the income statement.
Savills plc 107 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.12 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at their transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Receivables are discounted where the time value of money is material.
The Group applies the simplified approach to providing for expected credit losses prescribed by IFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables.
Accounting policy applied prior to 1 January 2018 Under IAS 39 prior to transition to IFRS 9, a provision for impairment of trade receivables was established when there was objective evidence that the Group would not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision was the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset was reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss was recognised in the income statement within other operating expenses.
When a trade receivable was uncollected, it was written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off were credited against other operating expenses in the income statement.
2.13 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call with banks, together with other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are included under borrowings in the statement of financial position.
2.14 Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
2.15 Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
2.16 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of the Groups derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
2.17 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares purchased for the Employee Benefit Trust and the Savills Rabbi Trust, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
2.18 Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Savills plc 108 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.19 Pension obligations The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The defined benefit scheme charge consists of net interest costs, past service costs and the impact of any settlements or curtailments and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates a defined contribution Group Personal Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect of defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement when they are payable.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
2.20 Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
All equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is predominantly measured by use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled sharebased payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Any cash proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
2.21 Employee Benefit Trust and Savills Rabbi Trust The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT and the Savills Rabbi Trust the Rabbi Trust, the purposes of which are to grant awards to employees, to acquire shares in the Company pursuant to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees on the vesting of the awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT and Rabbi Trust are included in the Group statement of financial position.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
2.22 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Savills plc 109 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.22 Provisions continued a Professional indemnity claims Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised when it is probable that the Group will be required to settle claims against it as a result of a past event and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
The Group recognises a provision up to the limit of its self-insured liabilities in respect of any claim, with the excess of any self-insured element settled by professional indemnity insurance cover.
The professional indemnity insurance cover is spread across a panel of insurers so that it is highly unlikely that the Group would be liable for any settlement in excess of the self-insured element of any given claim.
As a result, the amount of the claim in excess of the self-insured element is not included in the professional indemnity claims provision.
b Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and restore properties to agreed specifications on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
Provision for such cost is made where a legal obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
c Onerous leases A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
d Restructuring provision A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when there is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying at least the business or part of the business concerned, principal locations affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for terminating their services and when the plan has been communicated to those affected by it, raising an expectation that the plan will be carried out.
2.23 Revenue The Group recognises revenue from the following major sources: Residential property transactions Commercial property transactions Property consultancy services Property and facilities management services Investment management services.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control of a product or service to a customer.
a Residential property transactions Generally, revenue is recognised at a point in time, when unconditional contracts are exchanged.
Fees are a fixed consideration or a fixed percentage of the transaction value and are invoiced to the client upon completion.
For new home developments revenue is recognised following the terms of the contract.
In some instances revenue is recognised on a staged basis, reflecting the Groups obligations to find a buyer and to further support the client after exchange of contracts through to completion of the build and contract, which can be a number of years later.
For these developments, revenue recognition commences when the underlying contracts are exchanged, with total revenue from the contract recognised by the date of completion in accordance with contractual terms.
Fees are a fixed consideration or a fixed percentage of the transaction value and are invoiced to the client at each contractual milestone, in line with the recognition of revenue.
In other instances, the revenue will be recognised when contracts are exchanged and the transaction is unconditional, in these instances no further support is provided to the client after this point.
b Commercial property transactions Generally, revenue is recognised at a point in time on the date of completion or when unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
Savills plc 110 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements c Property consultancy services The Group primarily provides a wide range of professional property services including valuation, building and housing consultancy, environmental consultancy, development, planning, research, corporate services, landlord and tenant services and strategic projects.
Generally, revenue is recognised over a period of time as services are rendered in accordance with the contract terms.
Fee arrangements include fixed fee arrangements and fee for service arrangements time and materials.
For fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion with reference to the actual services provided to the end of the reporting period as a proportion of the total services to be provided under the contract.
This is determined on a contract by contract basis with reference to actual costs incurred in relation to the best estimate of total costs expected for completion of the contract or using a milestone based approach, depending on the contract terms.
For fee for service contracts, revenue is recognised up to the amount of fees that the Group is entitled to invoice for services performed to date based on contracted rates.
Payment arrangements vary between contracts, ranging from monthly retainers, monthly invoicing, quarterly invoicing, invoicing upon reaching certain milestones in the contract or payment upon completion of the final performance obligation in the contract.
As a result, services rendered under a contract will often exceed consideration received from a customer and a contract asset will be recognised.
If payments exceed services rendered, a contract liability will be recognised.
In some instances, revenue will be recognised at a point in time upon delivery of the final report to the client.
This is often the case for standalone valuation reports where the performance obligation is the provision of a property valuation report to the client.
The Group is entitled to invoice the customer when the final report has been issued, at which point payment will be due.
d Property and facilities management services The Group primarily manages commercial, industrial, residential, leisure and agricultural property for owners.
The primary performance obligation relates to the ongoing management of a property where revenue is recognised over a period of time as services are rendered in accordance with the contract terms.
Payment arrangements vary between contracts.
The majority of customers are invoiced monthly or quarterly in advance, with consideration payable upon the issue of an invoice.
Where invoicing is in advance a contract liability will be recognised.
In some property management arrangements, the Group is required to evaluate whether it is the principal report revenues on a gross basis or agent report revenues on a net basis.
Where the primary performance obligation of the contract relates to the arrangement of services for a customer rather than the responsibility to provide the services, the Group is considered the agent and the mark-up for the sub-contracted services will be recognised as revenue revenues reported on a net basis.
For leasing fees and management fees on repairs or other ad hoc property management services outside of the standard contract terms, revenue is recognised at a point in time upon completion of the performance obligation.
In these instances, the invoice would be raised to the customer upon completion of the performance obligation and payment due at this time.
e Investment management services Base management fees are received for the provision of fund and asset management services.
Fund management fees are typically either fixed or calculated as a fixed percentage of the net asset value or gross asset value of the underlying portfolio of investments.
Asset management fees are typically calculated as a fixed percentage of gross rental income or passing rents.
Revenue is recognised over a period of time as services are rendered in accordance with the contract terms.
Customers are generally invoiced quarterly in advance, as a result a contract liability will be recognised as the payments received will exceed services rendered.
Transaction fees are received for the coordination and management of the due diligence in connection with acquisitions and sales of assets for customers.
Transaction fees are calculated as a fixed percentage on the purchase or sales price and are recognised at a point in time upon unconditional exchange of contracts.
Performance fees are received when a funds performance exceeds a designated return hurdle rate or pre-defined benchmark or when the sale of individual assets exceeds a designated return hurdle rate.
The Group estimates fees for this variable fee arrangement using a most likely amount approach on a contract by contract basis.
Variable consideration is included in revenue only to the extent that it is highly probable that the amount will not be subject to significant reversal when the uncertainty is resolved.
Savills plc 111 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.23 Revenue continued f Financing components The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
As a consequence, the Group does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
g Costs of obtaining a contract In the Investment Management business the Group pays placement fees to third parties for sourcing new investors and equity for a fund.
These costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the fund, consistent with the pattern of transfer of service to which the asset relates.
Incremental costs of obtaining a contract are recognised as an expense when incurred when the amortisation period of the asset that would otherwise have been recognised is less than a year.
2.24 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets are then depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases are included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Leasing payments comprise capital and finance elements and the finance element is charged to the income statement.
The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
2.25 Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
2.26 Adoption of standards, amendments and interpretations to standards Standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU and mandatorily effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2018 include the following: IFRS 9, Financial instruments IFRS 9, replaces the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to the recognition, classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities: derecognition of financial instruments: impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 also significantly amends other standards dealing with financial instruments such as IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
15, comparative figures have not been restated and continue to be accounted for in accordance with the Groups previous accounting policy.
The transition to IFRS 9 did not have a material impact on the Groups opening retained earnings, as a result a reconciliation of retained earnings is not required.
The only reclassification adjustment upon transition to IFRS 9 relates to the Groups available-for-sale investments, which have been reclassified to financial assets through other comprehensive income following the Groups decision to apply the irrevocable election available in IFRS 9.
This reclassification did not have an impact on the carrying value of these financial assets and only impacts the accounting treatment in future periods when these investments are disposed of.
Savills plc 112 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15, establishes a principles based approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of recognising revenue for obligations only when they are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
The implementation of IFRS 15 resulted in some refinement in the timing of recognition of investment management performance fees and the amortisation period for contract costs.
In accordance with transition provisions in IFRS 15 the new rules have been adopted using the simplified retrospective transition method.
The transition to IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the Groups opening retained earnings, as a result a reconciliation of retained earnings is not required.
There have however been a number of balance sheet reclassifications upon transition to IFRS 15 as follows: Contract assets recognised in relation to consulting contracts were previously presented as work in progress.
Contract liabilities recognised which were previously presented in trade and other payables as deferred revenue.
2017 2017 Reported Reclassification Restated m m m Current assets Work in progress 6.0 6.0 Contract assets 6.0 6.0 Current liabilities Contract liabilities 7.1 7.1 Trade and other payables 592.7 7.1 585.6 In addition to the above, December 2017 goodwill and trade and other payables balances have been restated by a further 2.0m in relation to a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
The table below shows the impact of the application of IFRS 15 on a financial statement line item basis in the current period: 2018 Application of 2018 pre IFRS 15 IFRS 15 Reported m m m Income statement Revenue 1,760.7 0.7 1,761.4 Employee benefits expense 1,164.7 0.3 1,165.0 Statement of financial position Contract assets non-current 1.3 1.3 Trade and other receivables current 528.9 0.6 528.3 Trade and other payables current 628.8 0.3 629.1 Retained earnings 286.1 0.4 286.5 Savills plc 113 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.26 Adoption of standards, amendments and interpretations to standards continued Standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU and mandatorily effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2018 that are not relevant or considered to have a significant impact on the Group and its financial statements include the following: New interpretation IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based payment transactions Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IFRS 1 First time Adoption of IFRS and deletion of short-term exemptions Investments in Associates and clarification for venture capital Amendments to IAS 28 organisations Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts The following standards and amendments to published standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and have not been early adopted: IFRS 16, Leases, effective for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of leases with the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant information that faithfully represents those transactions.
The standard supersedes IAS 17 Leases.
The standard will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
On adoption, lease agreements will give rise to both a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for future lease payables.
Depreciation of the right-of-use asset will be recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis, with interest recognised on the lease liability.
This will result in a change to the profile of the net charge taken to the income statement over the life of the lease.
These charges will replace the lease costs currently charged to the income statement.
The Group will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption date of 1 January 2019 and intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
Right-of-use assets will be measured on transition either as if the new rules had always been applied or at the amount of the lease liability on adoption adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease expenses and onerous lease provisions where applicable.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 354.0m, see note 30.
Of these commitments, approximately 5.2m relates to short-term leases and 0.2m to low value leases which will both be recognised on a straight-line basis as expense in the income statement.
For the remaining lease commitments the Group expects to recognise lease liabilities of 300.6m, an increase to property, plant and equipment of approximately 260.5m through the recognition of right-of-use assets on 1 January 2019 and an increase to deferred tax assets of 1.5m.
Transitional adjustments will also include the reduction of trade and other receivables of 1.7m prepayments and trade and other payables of 33.1m primarily deferred rent accruals.
Overall, net assets will be approximately 7.2m lower and net current assets will be 15.3m lower due to the presentation of a portion of the liability as a current liability.
The Group expects that underlying profit before tax will decrease approximately 3.1m for 2019 as a result of adopting the new rules.
The Groups activities as a lessor are not material and hence the Group does not expect any significant impact on the financial statements with respect to sub-leasing activities.
Other standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and not discussed above are not relevant or considered significant to the Group.
Savills plc 114 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.
Financial risk management 3.1 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group uses financial instruments to manage material foreign currency and interest rate risk.
The treasury function is responsible for implementing risk management policies applied by the Group and has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines on financial risks and the use of financial instruments to manage these.
3.2 Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily with respect to the euro, Hong Kong dollar and US dollar.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
When there is a material committed foreign currency exposure the foreign exchange risk will be hedged.
The Group may finance some overseas investments through the use of foreign currency borrowings.
The Group does not actively seek to hedge risks arising from foreign currency translations due to their non-cash nature and the high costs associated with such hedging.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared for the major currencies to which the Group is exposed.
Recent historical movements in these currencies has been considered and it has been concluded that a 510% movement in rates is a reasonable benchmark.
For the years ended 31 December, if the average currency conversion rates against sterling for the year had changed with all other variables held constant, the Group post-tax profit for the year would have increased or decreased as shown below: Movement of currency against sterling m -10.0% -5.0% 5.0% 10.0% 2018 Estimated impact on post-tax profit Euro 1.0 0.5 0.6 1.3 Hong Kong dollar 1.7 0.9 1.0 2.1 US dollar 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.9 Estimated impact on components of equity Euro 1.0 0.6 0.6 1.3 Hong Kong dollar 13.8 7.2 8.0 16.9 US dollar 18.0 9.4 10.4 22.0 2017 Estimated impact on post-tax profit Euro 1.0 0.5 0.6 1.2 Hong Kong dollar 1.5 0.8 0.9 1.8 US dollar 0.9 0.5 0.5 1.1 Estimated impact on components of equity Euro 1.0 0.5 0.6 1.2 Hong Kong dollar 12.3 6.5 7.1 15.1 US dollar 12.1 6.3 7.0 14.8 Savills plc 115 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Financial risk management continued 3.3 Interest rate risk The Group has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group cash flow to interest rate risk, which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain at least 70% of its borrowings in fixed rate instruments.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, if the average interest rate for the year had changed with all other variables held constant, the Groups post-tax profit for the year and equity would have increased or decreased as shown below: Increase in interest rates m 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2018 Estimated impact on post-tax profit and equity 0.5 0.8 1.2 1.6 2017 Estimated impact on post-tax profit and equity 0.3 0.6 1.0 1.4 Decrease in interest rates m -0.5% -1.0% -1.5% -2.0% 2018 Estimated impact on post-tax profit and equity 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.4 2017 Estimated impact on post-tax profit and equity 0.5 0.9 0.9 0.6 The rationale behind the 2.0% sensitivity analysis is based upon historic trends in interest rate movements and the short-term expectation that any increase or decrease greater than 2.0% is unlikely to occur.
3.4 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, equity investments, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to clients, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before engaging with them.
A risk control framework is used to assess the credit quality of clients, taking into account financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual risk limits for banks and financial institutions are set based on external ratings and in accordance with limits set by the Board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
As at the reporting date, no significant credit risk existed in relation to banking counterparties.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting year, and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
There were no other significant receivables or individual trade receivable balances as at 31 December 2018.
Refer to Note 20 for information on the credit quality of trade receivables and the maximum exposure to credit risk arising on outstanding receivables from clients.
The table below shows Group cash balances split by counterparty ratings at the reporting date: 2018 2017 Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m AA- 25.7 24.7 A 55.4 30.2 A 101.8 96.6 A- 17.0 16.6 BBB or below 24.0 40.7 Total 223.9 208.8 Savills plc 116 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.5 Liquidity risk The Group maintains appropriate committed facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and expansion.
The Group prepares an annual funding plan approved by the Board which sets out the Groups expected financing requirements for the next 12 months.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities Note 23 and cash and cash equivalents Note 21 on the basis of expected cash flow.
This is carried out at local level in the operating companies of the Group in accordance with Group practice as well as on a Group consolidated basis.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the reporting date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than a Between Between m year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Over 5 years 2018 Borrowings 0.4 150.0 Finance leases 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 Trade and other payables 563.8 30.8 8.4 0.2 564.3 30.9 8.4 150.2 2017 Borrowings 110.1 Finance leases 0.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 Trade and other payables 538.0 13.9 18.6 5.2 648.2 14.0 18.6 5.2 3.6 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders To maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2017.
Savills plc is not subject to any externally-imposed capital requirements, with the exception of its regulated entities within the Savills Investment Management group and its FCA Financial Conduct Authority regulated entity, Savills Capital Advisors Ltd, in the UK.
All regulated entities complied with the relevant capital requirements during the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Savills Investment Management group has regulated entities in the UK, Jersey, Luxembourg, Germany, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Australia and the US.
For more information on Savills Investment Management groups regulated entities and regulatory requirements, please visit www.
In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Board has put in place a distribution policy which takes into account the degree of maintainability of the Groups different profit streams and the Groups overall exposure to cyclical Transaction Advisory profits, as well as the requirement to maintain a certain level of cash resources for working capital and corporate development purposes.
The Board will recommend an ordinary dividend broadly reflecting the profits derived from the Groups less volatile businesses.
In addition, when profits from the cyclical Transaction Advisory business are strong, the Board will consider and, if appropriate, recommend the payment of a supplemental dividend alongside the final ordinary dividend.
The value of any such supplemental dividend will vary depending on the performance of the Groups Transaction Advisory business and the Groups anticipated working capital and corporate development requirements through the cycle.
It is intended that, in normal circumstances, the combined value of the ordinary and supplemental dividends declared in respect of any year are covered at least 1.5 times by statutory retained earnings and or at least 2.0 times by underlying profits after taxation.
The Group complied with this policy throughout the year.
Savills plc 117 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 3.
Financial risk management continued 3.6 Capital risk management continued The Groups policy is to borrow centrally, if required, to meet anticipated funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are then on-lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors monitors a number of debt measures on a rolling forward 12-month basis including: gross cash by location: gross debt by location: cash subject to restrictions: total debt servicing cost to operating profit: gross borrowings as a percentage of EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : and forecast headroom against available facilities.
These internal measures indicate the levels of debt that the Group has and are closely monitored to ensure compliance with banking covenants and to confirm that the Group has sufficient unused facilities.
The Group complied with all banking covenants throughout the year and met all internal counterparty exposure limits set by the Board.
The capital structure is as follows: Group Company m 2018 2017 2018 2017 Equity 505.0 441.7 224.7 216.7 Cash and cash equivalents 223.9 208.8 90.2 90.8 Bank overdrafts 3.6 Borrowings 150.0 106.6 Net cash 73.9 98.6 90.2 90.8 3.7 Categories of financial instruments Financial AvailableFinancial Financial assets at Total Financial for-sale Total assets at assets at amortised carrying asset at financial Loans and carrying FVPL FVOCI cost amount fair value assets receivables amount 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Financial assets: Financial assets at FVOCI 31.2 31.2 Available-for-sale investments 24.6 24.6 Trade and other receivables 470.4 470.4 440.0 440.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 223.9 223.9 208.8 208.8 Total financial assets 0.1 31.2 694.3 725.6 0.5 24.6 648.8 673.9 Financial liabilities Financial Financial at Total Financial liabilities at Total liabilities amortised carrying liabilities at amortised carrying at FVPL cost amount fair value cost amount 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Financial liabilities: Borrowings 150.0 150.0 110.2 110.2 Trade and other payables 602.0 602.0 573.6 573.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total financial liabilities 0.1 752.0 752.1 0.1 683.8 683.9 Savills plc 118 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.8 Fair value estimation The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2018: m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2018 Assets Financial assets at FVOCI Listed 1.1 1.1 Unlisted 10.4 19.7 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Total assets 1.1 10.5 19.7 31.3 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2017: m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2017 Assets Available-for-sale investments Unlisted 24.6 24.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 Total assets 25.1 25.1 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 0.1 0.1 Level 1 instruments are those whose fair values are based on quoted market prices.
The fair value of Level 2 unlisted available-for-sale investments and financial assets at FVOCI is determined using valuation techniques using observable market data where available and rely as little as possible on entity estimates.
The fair value of investment funds is based on underlying asset values determined by the Fund Managers audited annual financial statements.
These instruments are included in Level 2.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by using valuation techniques using observable market data.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on the market value of similar instruments with similar maturities.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Following the implementation of IFRS 9, unlisted equity securities, where cost has been determined as the best approximation of fair value, the fair value estimates have now been included in Level 3.
Cost is considered the best approximation of fair value in these instances either due to insufficient more recent information being available and or there being a wide range of possible fair value measurements due to the nature of the investments and cost is considered the best estimate of fair value within the range.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 items for the period ended 31 December 2018.
Unlisted equity securities m Opening balance 1 January 2018 Transfer from Level 2 14.7 Additions 5.0 Closing balance 31 December 2018 19.7 Savills plc 119 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 4.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The table below shows the amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities before and after offsetting.
The amounts offset in the balance sheet were established in accordance with IAS 32.
The assets and liabilities offset stem from the multicurrency cash pooling implemented within the Group.
Amounts Net amount in Gross financial offset in the the balance assets balance sheet sheet m liabilities As at 31 December 2018 Assets 140.2 223.9 Cash and cash equivalents 364.1 Liabilities 140.2 Bank overdrafts 140.2 As at 31 December 2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 371.1 162.3 208.8 Liabilities Bank overdrafts 165.9 162.3 3.6 5.
Critical accounting estimates and management judgements 5.1 Accounting estimates Estimates are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, current market conditions and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes in circumstances on which the estimate was based, or as a result of new information or more experience.
The estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 11.2. b Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
c Deferred taxes The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which losses can be utilised.
d Valuation of intangible assets and useful life The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations.
This assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets.
These assumptions impact the income statement over the useful life of the intangible asset.
Savills plc 120 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements e Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis.
Within this process, the Group makes a number of key assumptions including discount rates, terminal growth rates and forecast cash flows.
The assumptions impact the recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and the requirement for impairment charges in the income statement.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 16. f Provisions The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
Provisions made within these financial statements and further details are contained in Note 25.1.
Known claims could be inadequately provided for or additional claims could be made which might not be covered by existing provisions or by insurance as detailed in Note 29.
5.2 Management judgements In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimations, that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers Revenue of 1,761.4m 2017: 1.600.0m in the income statement relates solely to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The Group derives revenue from the transfer of services over time and at a point in time in the major product lines and geographical regions as highlighted in the Groups segment analysis Note 7.
6.1 Contract assets and liabilities The Group recognised the following revenue-related contract assets and liabilities: 2017 2018 Restated m m Asset recognised for costs incurred to obtain a contract investment management contracts 1.3 Work in progress consulting contracts 7.8 6.0 Total contract assets 9.1 6.0 Current 7.8 6.0 Non-current 1.3 9.1 6.0 Deferred revenue 11.1 7.1 Total contract liabilities current 11.1 7.1 See Note 2.26 for details about changes in accounting policies and resulting prior year restatement.
There were no impairment losses recognised on any contract asset in the reporting period 2017: nil.
Amortisation on contract costs recognised in the income statement amounted to 0.1m 2017: nil.
All consulting contracts are for periods of one year or less.
As permitted under IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to these unsatisfied contracts is not disclosed.
6.2 Revenue recognised in relation to contract liabilities Revenue recognised in the year that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of the period totalled 6.0m.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous years was not material.
Savills plc 121 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 7.
Segment analysis Operating segments reflect internal management reporting to the Groups chief operating decision maker, defined as the Group Executive Board GEB.
The operating segments are determined based on differences in the nature of their services.
Geographical location also strongly affects the Group and both are therefore disclosed.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from property-related services.
Refer to the Group overview on page 3 and the segmental reviews on pages 18 to 21 for further information on revenue sources.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout the region.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, South Korea, Japan, Taipei, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia and Myanmar.
Europe & the Middle East segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland, Poland, Czech Republic, United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Oman, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.
North America segment operations are based in a number of states throughout the US and in Canada.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
Within the UK, both commercial and residential services are provided.
Other geographical areas, although largely commercial-based, also provide residential services, in particular Hong Kong, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Australia, Taipei and Thailand.
The GEB assesses the performance of operating segments based on a measure of underlying profit before tax which adjusts reported pre-tax profit by profit loss on disposals, share-based payment adjustment, significant restructuring costs, acquisition-related costs, amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software and impairments.
Segmental assets and liabilities are not measured or reported to the GEB, but non-current assets are disclosed geographically on page 123.
The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and underlying profit loss for the year ended 31 December 2018 is as follows: Property Transaction and Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Other Total 2018 m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 98.4 171.5 157.1 25.7 452.7 United Kingdom residential 131.5 44.4 33.8 209.7 Total United Kingdom 229.9 215.9 190.9 25.7 662.4 Europe & the Middle East 113.1 33.4 68.9 31.6 247.0 Asia Pacific commercial 160.1 45.1 327.0 9.4 541.6 Asia Pacific residential 45.9 45.9 Total Asia Pacific 206.0 45.1 327.0 9.4 587.5 North America 264.5 264.5 Revenue 813.5 294.4 586.8 66.7 1,761.4 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 15.7 19.0 10.2 4.7 13.7 35.9 United Kingdom residential 17.6 6.8 2.8 27.2 Total United Kingdom 33.3 25.8 13.0 4.7 13.7 63.1 Europe & the Middle East 5.5 3.0 4.4 12.9 Asia Pacific commercial 21.2 4.3 19.2 1.9 46.6 Asia Pacific residential 8.3 8.3 Total Asia Pacific 29.5 4.3 19.2 1.9 54.9 North America 12.8 12.8 Underlying profit loss before tax 81.1 33.1 32.2 11.0 13.7 143.7 Savills plc 122 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and underlying profit loss for the year ended 31 December 2017 is as follows: Property Transaction and Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Other Total 2017 m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 101.6 160.2 135.1 24.8 1.1 422.8 United Kingdom residential 128.9 44.7 30.7 204.3 Total United Kingdom 230.5 204.9 165.8 24.8 1.1 627.1 Europe & the Middle East 78.2 22.5 46.4 35.3 182.4 Asia Pacific commercial 168.4 45.7 300.9 6.4 521.4 Asia Pacific residential 44.3 44.3 Total Asia Pacific 212.7 45.7 300.9 6.4 565.7 North America 224.8 224.8 Revenue 746.2 273.1 513.1 66.5 1.1 1,600.0 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 17.2 17.1 9.0 5.0 10.6 37.7 United Kingdom residential 18.7 6.8 2.7 28.2 Total United Kingdom 35.9 23.9 11.7 5.0 10.6 65.9 Europe & the Middle East 4.5 2.0 1.8 6.5 11.2 Asia Pacific commercial 26.9 5.1 15.4 1.8 49.2 Asia Pacific residential 6.4 6.4 Total Asia Pacific 33.3 5.1 15.4 1.8 55.6 North America 7.8 7.8 Underlying profit loss before tax 81.5 31.0 25.3 13.3 10.6 140.5 Revenues of 275.4m 2017: 243.7m are attributable to the Hong Kong and Macau region.
T ransaction Advisory underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 7.5m 2017: 6.6m, software amortisation of 1.1m 2017: 0.8m and share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates of 3.1m 2017: 2.2m.
Consultancy underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 2.3m 2017: 2.0m, software amortisation of 0.6m 2017: 0.4m and share of post-tax loss from joint ventures and associates of 0.2m 2017: nil.
Property and Facilities Management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 3.9m 2017: 3.4m, software amortisation of 1.1m 2017: 1.3m and share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates of 7.8m 2017: 7.7m.
Investment Management underlying profit before tax includes depreciation of 0.3m 2017: 0.4m and software amortisation of 0.4m 2017: 0.4m and share of post-tax gain from associates of 0.4m 2017: nil.
Included in Other underlying loss is depreciation of 0.9m 2017: 1.1m and software amortisation of 0.4m 2017: 0.3m.
The Other segment includes costs and other expenses at holding company and subsidiary levels, which are not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to profit before tax is provided in Note 9.
Inter-segmental revenue is not material.
No single customer contributed 10% or more to the Groups revenue for both 2018 and 2017.
Non-current assets by geography are set out below: 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets United Kingdom 168.7 131.1 Europe & the Middle East 119.3 96.7 Asia Pacific 90.9 87.6 North America 176.2 169.8 Total non-current assets 555.1 485.2 Non-current assets include goodwill and intangible assets, plant, property and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and retirement benefits.
Available-for-sale investments, financial assets held at FVOCI, non-current other receivables, non-current contract assets and deferred tax assets are not included.
Savills plc 123 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 8.
Operating profit 8.1 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Group 2018 2017 m m In other operating expenses Net foreign exchange gains losses excluding net losses on forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.3 Net losses gains on forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 Significant restructuring costs 8.4 7.7 Acquisition-related costs 20.7 21.3 Operating lease costs 59.1 54.6 In other operating income Dividends from equity investments held at FVOCI Related to investments held at the end of the reporting period 0.1 Dividends from available-for-sale investments 0.9 In other gains losses Profit on disposal of joint venture 1.0 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries 0.4 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investments 5.9 S ignificant restructuring costs include staff related costs of 4.7m 2017: 5.1m, an onerous lease charge of 1.2m 2017: 2.3m and other related restructuring costs of 2.5m 2017: nil arising primarily from integration activities in relation to the acquisitions of Aguirre Newman and Cluttons Middle East 2017: Smiths Gore, GBR Phoenix Beard and SEB.
Refer to Note 9 for a further breakdown of acquisition-related costs.
8.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors,  LLP, and its associates Group 2018 2017 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of parent Company 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.7 1.6 2.0 1.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Transaction advisory services 0.8 0.6 Other assurance services 0.1 1.0 0.8 Total 3.0 2.6 Savills plc 124 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9.
Underlying profit before tax 2018 2017 m m Statutory profit before tax 109.4 112.4 Adjustments: Amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software 6.6 3.9 Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets excluding software 0.3 2.3 Share-based payment adjustment 1.9 1.2 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint venture and available-for-sale investments 2.9 5.9 Restructuring costs 8.4 7.7 Acquisition-related costs 20.7 21.3 GMP equalisation charge 3.1 Underlying profit before tax 143.7 140.5 An impairment charge of 0.3m was recognised in the year relating to acquired investment management contracts.
In the prior year, a 2.3m impairment charge was recognised relating to the goodwill of the Groups Swedish property management business.
The adjustment for share-based payments relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS, the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge in relation to outstanding bonus-related share awards and the estimated value of the current year bonus pool to be awarded in deferred shares.
This adjustment is made to align the underlying staff cost in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
Profit on disposal includes profits recognised in relation to the disposal of subsidiaries 100% of Savills Asset Management Pte Ltd and 80.5% of FPD Property Services India Private Ltd, which is now treated as an equity investment held at FVOCI and the part disposal of a joint venture Beijing Financial Street Savills Property Management Company Ltd in Asia Pacific.
In the prior year, profit on disposal included profits recognised in relation to the disposals of the Groups available-for-sale investments, SPF Private Clients Limited 5.3m and Cordea Savills German Retail Fund 0.6m.
Restructuring costs includes costs of integration activities in relation to recent significant business acquisitions primarily Aguirre Newman in Spain and Cluttons Middle East.
In the prior year, costs related to the integration of Smiths Gore and GBR Phoenix Beard GBR in the UK and Savills Investment Managements acquisition of SEB.
Acquisition-related costs include 14.2m 2017: 17.2m of provisions for future payments in relation to business acquisitions, which are expensed through the income statement to reflect the requirement for the recipients to remain actively engaged in the business at the payment date.
These relate to acquisitions in the UK 3.6m - primarily GBR and Smiths Gore, North America 2.6m and Europe & the Middle East 8.0m - primarily Aguirre Newman.
In the prior year, these costs related to acquisitions in the UK 3.8m primarily GBR and Smiths Gore, North America 13.2m primarily Studley and Europe 0.3m.
In addition, acquisition-related costs includes 2.2m for payments in relation to Savills Investment Managements acquisition of Merchant Capital Japan in May 2014 2017: 1.4m, 1.0m of unwinding of interest on deferred consideration payments 2017: 0.6m and 3.3m of transaction costs 2017: 2.1m.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation charge in the year reflects the past service cost on the UK defined benefit pension scheme, which is the estimated cost of equalising GMPs for the impact between males and females: this follows the conclusion of a High Court case in the UK on 26 October 2018.
Savills plc 125 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 10.
Employees 10.1 Employee benefits expense Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Basic salaries and wages 581.8 530.5 8.5 8.2 Profit share and commissions 463.2 426.7 5.3 5.8 Wages and salaries 1,045.0 957.2 13.8 14.0 Social security costs 71.1 63.0 1.7 2.0 Other pension costs 30.7 27.0 0.5 0.3 Share-based payments 18.2 14.5 2.1 2.4 1,165.0 1,061.7 18.1 18.7 10.2 Staff numbers The monthly average number of employees including Directors for the year was: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 United Kingdom 5,955 5,554 133 125 Europe & the Middle East 1,752 1,206 Asia Pacific 28,486 26,894 North America 788 775 36,981 34,429 133 125 The average number of UK employees including Directors during the year included 157 employed under fixed-term and temporary contracts 2017: 96.
10.3 Key management compensation Group 2018 2017 m m Key management Short-term employee benefits 30.5 28.0 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 2.6 3.3 33.3 31.5 The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 comprised Executive Directors and the GEB members.
Details of Directors remuneration is contained in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 84.
During the year eight 2017: seven GEB members made aggregate gains totalling 5.4m 2017: 3.5m on the exercise of options under PSP, DSP and DSBP schemes 2017: PSP, DSP and DSBP schemes.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three 2017: three GEB members and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for two 2017: two GEB members.
Savills plc 126 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11.
Pension schemes 11.1 Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 27.5m 2017: 26.9m.
The amount outstanding as at 31 December 2018 in relation to defined contribution schemes is 2.0m 2017: 1.9m.
11.2 Defined benefit plan The Group operates two defined benefit plans.
The Pension Plan of Savills the UK Plan is a UK-based plan which provided final salary pension benefits to some employees, but was closed with regard to future service-based benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2010.
From 1 April 2010, pension benefits for former employees of the UK Plan are provided through the Groups defined contribution Personal Pension Plan.
The UK Plan is administered by a separate Trust that is legally separated from the Company.
The board of the pension fund is composed of six trustees.
The board of the pension fund is required by law and by its Article of Association to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The board of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan was carried out as at 31 March 2016 and has been updated to 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Savills Fund Management GMBH Plan the SFM Plan is a Germany-based plan which provides final salary benefits to 13 active employees and 102 former employees.
The plan is closed to future service-based benefit accrual.
The SFM Plan is administered by an external Trust that is legally separated from the Company.
The Trust Agreement requires the trustee to maintain the plan assets in the interest of the beneficiaries of the plan and to fulfil their pension entitlements in the event of insolvency to the extent of the plan assets held.
The Investment Committee of the fund, advised by expert investment managers, is responsible for the investment policy with regards to the assets of the fund.
The contributions are determined based on the annual valuations of an independent qualified actuary.
A full actuarial valuation of the SFM Plan was carried out as at 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The table below outlines the Groups and Companys defined benefit pension amounts in relation to the UK Plan: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Asset liability in the statement of financial position 2.8 19.5 0.1 1.1 Past service cost included in employee benefit expense 3.1 0.2 Net interest cost included in finance costs 0.4 1.0 Actuarial gain included in other comprehensive income 16.8 13.3 0.9 0.7 The past service cost in 2018 relates to the estimated cost of equalising GMP for the impact between males and females: this follows the conclusion of a High Court case in the UK on 26 October 2018.
Rule 23 of the governing Trust Deed and Rules of the UK Plan covers the rights upon termination of the UK Plan, which is triggered when there are no beneficiaries surviving in accordance with Rule 19.
Management interprets these rules that in the event of the UK Plan winding up with no members, any surplus assets would be returned to the Company.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in the scheme is recognised in full.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in relation to the UK Plan are as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Present value of funded obligations 262.1 298.2 14.6 16.5 Fair value of plan assets 264.9 278.7 14.7 15.4 Asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 2.8 19.5 0.1 1.1 Savills plc 127 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 11.
Pension schemes continued 11.2 Defined benefit plan continued The movement in the defined benefit obligation asset for the UK Plan over the year is as follows: Group Company Present value Fair value of Present value Fair value of of obligation plan assets Total of obligation plan assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 298.2 278.7 19.5 16.5 15.4 1.1 Interest expense income 7.4 7.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 3.1 3.1 0.2 0.2 Remeasurements: Losses on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 21.8 21.8 1.2 1.2 Gain from change in financial assumptions 28.8 28.8 1.6 1.6 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 8.0 8.0 0.4 0.4 Experience gains 1.8 1.8 0.1 0.1 Employer contributions 9.0 9.0 0.5 0.5 Benefit payments 8.0 8.0 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2018 262.1 264.9 2.8 14.6 14.7 0.1 Group Company Present value Fair value of Present value Fair value of of obligation plan assets Total of obligation plan assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 298.4 257.6 40.8 16.5 14.2 2.3 Interest expense income 7.8 6.8 1.0 0.4 0.4 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 23.3 23.3 1.3 1.3 Loss from change in financial assumptions 10.2 10.2 0.6 0.6 Gain from change in demographic assumptions Experience gains 0.2 0.2 Employer contributions 9.0 9.0 0.5 0.5 Benefit payments 18.0 18.0 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 298.2 278.7 19.5 16.5 15.4 1.1 The table below outlines the Groups defined benefit pension amounts in relation to the SFM Plan: SFM Plan 2018 2017 m m Liability asset in the statement of financial position 0.3 1.3 Current service cost included in employee benefits expense 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss gain included in other comprehensive income 1.1 0.8 Section 5.2 of the SFM Plan Trust Deed provides the Trustor Savills Fund Management GmbH, Savills Fund Management Holding AG, and Savills Investment Management Germany GmbH respectively with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business neither Trustor nor Trustee have any rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of the scheme.
Savills plc 128 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in relation to the SFM Plan are as follows: SFM Plan 2018 2017 m m Present value of funded obligations 14.0 13.9 Fair value of plan assets 13.7 15.2 Liability asset recognised in the statement of financial position 0.3 1.3 The movement in the defined benefit obligation asset for the SFM Plan over the year is as follows: SFM Plan Present value Fair value of of obligation plan assets Total m m m At 1 January 2018 13.9 15.2 1.3 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Interest expense income 0.3 0.3 Remeasurements: Losses on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 1.1 1.1 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 0.1 0.1 Experience gains 0.1 0.1 Employer contributions 0.4 0.4 Benefit payments 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 14.0 13.7 0.3 SFM Plan Present value Fair value of of obligation plan assets Total m m m At 1 January 2017 14.4 14.0 0.4 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Interest expense income 0.3 0.3 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 0.2 0.2 Gain from change in financial assumptions 0.5 0.5 Experience gains 0.1 0.1 Transfers 0.3 0.3 Employer contributions 0.9 0.9 Benefit payments 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.4 0.5 0.1 At 31 December 2017 13.9 15.2 1.3 Savills plc 129 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 11.
Pension schemes continued 11.2 Defined benefit plan continued The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows: SFM Plan UK Plan As at 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Expected rate of salary increases 2.50% 2.50% 3.25% 3.25% Projection of social security contribution ceiling 2.25% 2.25% Rate of increase to pensions in payment Pension promise before 1 January 1986 2.25% 2.25% Pension promise after 1 January 1986 1.75% 1.75% accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.20% 3.30% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.30% 2.30% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 2.30% 2.30% accrued after 5 April 2009 2.30% 2.30% Discount rate 2.07% 2.06% 2.90% 2.50% Inflation assumption 1.75% 1.75% 3.40% 3.40% Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics and experience.
These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring at age 60: SFM Plan UK Plan 2018 2017 2018 2017 Retiring at the end of the reporting year Male 85.0 83.9 88.2 88.8 Female 88.6 88.4 89.6 90.3 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting year Male 87.4 86.6 90.0 91.0 Female 90.7 91.0 91.5 92.7 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is: SFM Plan UK Plan Impact on present value of Impact on present value of scheme obligations m scheme obligations m 0.1% increase in discount rates 0.2 5.7 0.1% increase in inflation rate 0.2 3.2 0.1% increase in salary increase rate 0.5 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.6 10.5 The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the statement of financial position.
Savills plc 130 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Plan assets are comprised as follows: SFM Plan UK Plan 2018 2017 2018 2017 m % m % m % m % Equity instruments 17.1 6% 92.4 33% Liability-driven investment LDI 69.3 26% 82.0 29% Investment funds 13.7 100% 15.2 100% 67.9 26% 30.9 11% Bonds 79.3 30% 72.6 26% Cash and cash equivalents 31.3 12% 0.8 1% Total 13.7 100% 15.2 100% 264.9 100% 278.7 100% No Plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets.
Although the UK Plan does not invest directly in the Groups financial instruments, it does invest in passive equity funds, so will have some exposure to FTSE All Share, hence indirectly to the Savills share price.
Through the defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: a Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The Plan holds a significant proportion of equities and funds, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short term.
b Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the Plans liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Plans bond holdings.
c Inflation risk Higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The majority of the Plans assets are either unaffected by or are loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
d Life expectancy The majority of the Plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Plans liabilities.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2019 are 9.0m.
The Company expects to contribute 0.5m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 22 years for the UK Plan and 17 years for the SFM Plan.
Expected maturity analysis of the undiscounted pension benefits: Less than Between Between Over a year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m Pension benefit payments UK Plan 4.6 4.6 18.3 587.8 615.3 SFM Plan 0.5 0.5 1.5 18.7 21.2 Savills plc 131 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 12.
Finance income and costs Group 2018 2017 m m Bank interest receivable 4.0 2.7 Fair value gain 0.4 0.1 Finance income 4.4 2.8 Bank interest payable 5.1 2.1 Unwinding of discounts on liabilities 1.1 0.7 Net interest on defined benefit pension obligation 0.4 1.0 Fair value loss 0.1 0.3 Finance costs 6.7 4.1 Net finance cost 2.3 1.3 13.
Income tax expense Analysis of tax expense for the year: Group 2018 2017 m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax on profits for the year 13.8 14.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.4 0.5 12.4 15.4 Overseas tax 19.8 23.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 0.7 Total current tax 32.4 38.6 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 2.1 3.3 Effect of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax 0.4 0.1 Overseas tax 4.7 Effect of change in overseas tax rate on deferred tax 0.1 1.0 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.6 0.2 Total deferred tax Note 19 0.2 7.3 Income tax expense 32.2 31.3 Savills plc 132 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The tax on the Groups profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK weighted average tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows: Group 2018 2017 m m Profit before income tax 109.4 112.4 Tax on profit at 19% 2017: 19.25% 20.8 21.6 Effects of: Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.4 0.5 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 4.3 2.2 Utilisation of previously unprovided tax losses 0.4 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 8.6 9.7 Tax on joint ventures and associates 2.2 2.3 Effect of change in tax rates on deferred tax 0.3 1.0 Income tax expense 32.2 31.3 The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 29.4% 2017: 27.8%, which is higher 2017: higher than the UK weighted average applicable rate.
The UK corporate tax rate is to reduce to 17% on 1 April 2020.
Deferred tax has been determined using the applicable effective future tax rate that will apply in the expected period of utilisation of the deferred tax asset or liability.
The tax charged credited to other comprehensive income is as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Deferred tax on pension actuarial gains losses 2.8 2.8 0.2 0.1 2.8 2.8 0.2 0.1 Tax on items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Current tax credit on employee benefits 2.4 3.1 0.6 0.5 Current tax credit charge on foreign exchange reserves 0.3 0.3 Current tax credit on retirement benefits 1.7 1.7 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax on additional pension contributions 1.7 1.7 0.1 0.2 Deferred tax on pension effect of tax rate change 0.1 0.6 Deferred tax on employee benefits 3.1 0.8 Deferred tax credit on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.1 Deferred tax on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.1 0.3 2.3 0.4 Tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 3.1 0.5 0.2 0.3 Savills plc 133 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 14.
Dividends Group and Company Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts recognised as distribution to equity holders in the year: Ordinary final dividend of 10.45p per share 2016: 10.1p 14.3 13.5 14.4 13.5 Supplemental interim dividend of 15.1p per share 2016: 14.5p 20.6 19.5 20.7 19.5 Interim dividend of 4.8p per share 2017: 4.65p 6.5 6.3 6.6 6.3 41.4 39.3 41.7 39.3 In addition, the Group paid 0.2m 2017: 0.9m of dividends to non-controlling interests.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 10.8p net per ordinary share amounting to 14.8m is paid, alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 15.6p per ordinary share amounting to 21.4m, to be paid on 13 May 2019 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2019.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Under the terms of the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustees have waived their dividend entitlement for all shares held by the Trust.
The dividends paid to the Rabbi Trust are eliminated upon Group consolidation, as a result the dividends paid by the Group and the Company are not equal.
The total paid and recommended ordinary and supplemental dividends for the 2018 financial year comprises an aggregate distribution of 31.2p per ordinary share 2017: 30.2p per ordinary share.
Earnings per share 15.1 Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS are based on the profit attributable to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 5,502,275 shares 2017: 4,819,684 shares and the Rabbi Trust, 1,386,356 shares 2017: 800,000.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and where performance conditions have been met.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 76.7 136.4 56.2 80.1 136.2 58.8 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 4.0 1.6 3.0 1.3 Diluted earnings per share 76.7 140.4 54.6 80.1 139.2 57.5 Savills plc 134 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15.2 Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes profit on disposals, share-based payment adjustment, impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets excluding software, restructuring costs, acquisition-related costs and other exceptional costs.
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 76.7 136.4 56.2 80.1 136.2 58.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software after tax 4.7 3.4 2.1 1.5 Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets excluding software after tax 0.3 0.2 2.3 1.7 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 1.7 1.2 1.0 0.7 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity investments after tax 2.9 2.1 5.9 4.3 Restructuring costs after tax 6.9 5.1 6.0 4.4 Acquisition-related costs after tax 19.7 14.4 19.6 14.4 GMP equalisation charge after tax 2.5 1.8 Underlying basic earnings per share 106.2 136.4 77.8 103.2 136.2 75.8 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 4.0 2.2 3.0 1.7 Underlying diluted earnings per share 106.2 140.4 75.6 103.2 139.2 74.1 The Directors regard the adjustments on the previous table necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for sharebased compensation.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effective value of the annual share award in order to better match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments Note 9 are amortisation of acquired intangible assets excluding software 6.6m 2017: 3.9m, impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets excluding software of 0.3m 2017: 2.3m, share-based payment adjustment 1.9m credit 2017: 1.2m credit, restructuring costs of 8.4m 2017: 7.7m, net profit on disposals of 2.9m 2017: 5.9m profit, acquisition-related costs of 20.7m 2017: 21.3m and the GMP equalisation charge of 3.1m 2017: nil.
Savills plc 135 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 16.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment Customer and property business management Order Computer Goodwill relationships contracts backlogs Brands software Total Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 402.7 23.6 27.1 6.5 1.3 24.4 485.6 5.8 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 21.1 4.3 15.1 40.5 Other additions 5.9 5.9 2.5 Disposals 6.2 0.4 3.4 10.0 1.0 Exchange movement 10.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 11.6 At 31 December 2018 434.5 21.9 42.1 6.9 1.3 26.9 533.6 7.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2018 49.4 19.8 12.8 4.7 11.2 97.9 3.1 Amortisation charge for the year 2.3 2.3 1.4 0.6 3.7 10.3 0.4 Impairment charge 0.3 0.3 Disposals 6.2 0.4 2.9 9.5 1.0 Exchange movement 1.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 2.1 At 31 December 2018 50.7 16.1 15.3 6.3 0.7 12.0 101.1 2.5 Net book value At 31 December 2018 383.8 5.8 26.8 0.6 0.6 14.9 432.5 4.8 G oodwill cost as at 1 January 2018 has been restated by 2.0m as a result of a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
The carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives totals 2.9m as at 31 December 2018 2017: 3.2m, which consists of investment management contracts in relation to open-ended funds.
An impairment charge of 0.3m has been recognised during the year in relation to one of these investment management contracts.
All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software only.
Savills plc 136 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Group Company Investment Customer and property business management Order Computer Goodwill relationships contracts backlogs Brands software Total Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 358.1 22.6 26.3 6.8 18.8 432.6 4.4 Additions through business combinations 59.8 1.5 0.9 0.3 1.3 63.8 Other additions 8.8 8.8 1.6 Disposals 2.9 2.9 0.2 Exchange movement 15.2 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.3 16.7 At 31 December 2017 402.7 23.6 27.1 6.5 1.3 24.4 485.6 5.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 48.3 19.9 10.3 3.9 11.2 93.6 3.0 Amortisation charge for the year 0.3 2.4 1.2 3.1 7.0 0.3 Impairment charge 2.3 2.3 Disposals 2.8 2.8 0.2 Exchange movement 1.2 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.3 2.2 At 31 December 2017 49.4 19.8 12.8 4.7 11.2 97.9 3.1 Net book value At 31 December 2017 353.3 3.8 14.3 1.8 1.3 13.2 387.7 2.7 G oodwill recognised through business combinations during 2017 and the resulting net book value and closing cost as at 31 December 2017 has been restated by 2.0m in total as a result of a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
During the year, goodwill and intangible assets were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation of goodwill and indefinite useful life intangible assets is presented below: Property and Transaction Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Total 2018 m m m m m United Kingdom 28.7 10.4 30.8 2.0 71.9 Europe & the Middle East 62.2 19.9 19.2 4.9 106.2 Asia Pacific 15.2 4.8 30.3 2.3 52.6 North America 156.0 156.0 Total goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 262.1 35.1 80.3 9.2 386.7 Property Transaction and Facilities Investment Advisory Consultancy Management Management Total 2017 m m m m m United Kingdom 26.0 9.3 27.4 2.0 64.7 Europe & the Middle East 60.8 16.8 8.9 5.2 91.7 Asia Pacific 15.1 4.7 30.6 2.3 52.7 North America 147.4 147.4 Total goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets 249.3 30.8 66.9 9.5 356.5 G oodwill in relation to Europes Transaction Advisory, Consultancy and Property and Facilities Management segments has been restated by 2.0m as a result of a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
Savills plc 137 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 16.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued 16.1 Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
There was a 0.3m impairment charge recognised against investment management contracts arising from the annual impairment tests conducted 2017: 2.3m impairment charge recognised against goodwill.
16.2 Assumptions a Market conditions In general, the models used assume that the property markets in which the Group operates which drive its revenue growth will remain stable.
b Discount rate The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average cost of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk-free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk-free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk-adjusted discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2018 Discount rate 2017 range Discount rate range United Kingdom 9.3%12.2% 10.0% Europe 7.9%13.1% 10.0% Asia Pacific 7.7%11.2% 11.2%18.1% North America 9.3%9.8% 10.0% c Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using average long-term growth rates.
The rates are based on the long-term growth rate in the countries in which the Group operates.
The long-term growth rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2018 2017 Long-term growth Long-term growth rate range rate range United Kingdom 1.6%2.0% 2.0% Europe 0.8%3.0% 1.4%2.6% Asia Pacific 0.6%5.9% 0.8%5.7% North America 1.7%1.8% 2.3% 16.3 Impairment charge Following impairment testing, a 0.3m charge has been recognised through the income statement 2017: 2.3m relating to goodwill on the Groups Swedish property management business relating to an indefinite life investment management contract, which has been fully impaired.
16.4 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value-in-use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Nonetheless, there are no CGUs for which management considers a reasonable possible change in a key assumption would give rise to an impairment.
Future impairments on goodwill and intangible assets relating to any of the Groups investments may be impacted by the following factors: Savills plc 138 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Market conditions the expectations for future market conditions are key assumptions in the determination of the cash flow projections.
For the purposes of the impairment tests, management expects the markets to remain stable.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflect 2018s costs with limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and profit shares are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existing rates.
Property, plant and equipment Short Freehold leasehold Equipment and property property motor vehicles Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 0.1 69.7 58.3 128.1 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 0.1 0.9 1.0 Disposal of subsidiary 0.1 0.1 Additions 4.6 12.3 16.9 Disposals 0.1 5.7 5.8 Exchange movement 1.1 1.4 2.5 At 31 December 2018 0.1 75.4 67.1 142.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 23.5 36.4 59.9 Charge for the year 6.4 8.5 14.9 Disposals 0.1 4.7 4.8 Exchange movement 0.2 0.9 1.1 At 31 December 2018 30.0 41.1 71.1 Net book value At 31 December 2018 0.1 45.4 26.0 71.5 The Directors consider that the fair value of property, plant and equipment approximates carrying value.
Freehold Short leasehold Equipment and property property motor vehicles Total Group m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 0.1 55.4 60.8 116.3 Additions through business combinations 0.4 0.4 Additions 15.8 7.3 23.1 Disposals 0.4 8.4 8.8 Exchange movement 1.1 1.8 2.9 At 31 December 2017 0.1 69.7 58.3 128.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 18.5 38.1 56.6 Charge for the year 5.5 8.0 13.5 Disposals 0.4 8.4 8.8 Exchange movement 0.1 1.3 1.4 At 31 December 2017 23.5 36.4 59.9 Net book value At 31 December 2017 0.1 46.2 21.9 68.2 Savills plc 139 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 17.
Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold Equipment and property motor vehicles Total Company m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 0.1 7.2 7.3 Additions 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 0.1 7.9 8.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 5.6 5.6 Charge for the year 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 6.4 6.4 Net book value At 31 December 2018 0.1 1.5 1.6 Freehold Equipment and property motor vehicles Total Company m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 0.1 6.6 6.7 Additions 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 0.1 7.2 7.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 4.8 4.8 Charge for the year 1.1 1.1 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 5.6 5.6 Net book value At 31 December 2017 0.1 1.6 1.7 Savills plc 140 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18.
Investments and transactions 18.1 Group Investments in joint ventures and associates Joint ventures Associates Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2018 9.2 0.6 9.8 2.1 0.3 2.4 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 0.5 0.5 Additions 1.4 1.4 0.5 14.5 15.0 Disposals 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Loans advanced 1.1 1.1 Exchange movement 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 10.7 2.3 13.0 2.5 14.8 17.3 Share of profit At 1 January 2018 10.3 10.3 7.5 7.5 Groups share of profit from continuing operations 6.0 6.0 5.1 5.1 Dividends received 5.8 5.8 5.4 5.4 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Exchange movement 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2018 10.6 10.6 7.4 7.4 Total At 31 December 2018 21.3 2.3 23.6 9.9 14.8 24.7 Joint ventures Associates Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2017 9.3 9.3 2.1 0.3 2.4 Additions 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Loans advanced 0.6 0.6 Exchange movement 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2017 9.2 0.6 9.8 2.1 0.3 2.4 Share of profit At 1 January 2017 10.4 10.4 6.8 6.8 Groups share of profit from continuing operations 6.2 6.2 3.7 3.7 Dividends received 5.3 5.3 3.0 3.0 Exchange movement 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 10.3 10.3 7.5 7.5 Total At 31 December 2017 19.5 0.6 20.1 9.6 0.3 9.9 On 28 September 2018, the Group acquired a 25% interest in DRC Capital LLP DRC, a commercial real estate debt investment advisor for consideration of 15.0m, with the option to purchase the remaining 75% of DRC in 2021.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Group does not have any joint ventures or associates that are individually material to the results of the Group.
The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
Savills plc 141 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 18.
Investments and transactions continued 18.2 Group Available-for-sale investments Following the adoption of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018, equity investments previously classified as available-for-sale investments have been reclassified to financial assets held at FVOCI Note 18.3.
In accordance with transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
15, comparative figures have not been restated.
2017 m At 1 January 20.8 Additions 8.8 Disposals 5.3 Additions through business combinations 0.1 Net fair value gain transferred to other comprehensive income 0.3 Exchange movement 0.1 At 31 December 24.6 Available-for-sale investments comprised the following: 2017 m Unlisted securities UK equity securities 14.2 UK investment funds 2.3 European equity securities 0.1 European investment funds 1.9 Asia Pacific equity securities 0.4 Asia Pacific investment funds 5.7 24.6 Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 m Sterling 16.5 Euro 2.0 Other 6.1 24.6 At 31 December 2017, the Group held the following principal available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity YOPA Property Ltd registered in England and Wales 22.80% Digital hybrid agency Vucity Ltd registered in England and Wales 33.33% Digital architectural design and planning Proportunity Ltd registered in England and Wales 5.11% Digital real estate valuation Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication LP registered in England and Wales 3.70% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 LP registered in England and Wales 1.97% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund registered in Luxembourg 11.33% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 LP registered in England and Wales 4.17% UK land investment fund Prime London Residential Development Fund registered in England and Wales 0.86% London residential development fund Prime London Residential Development Fund II registered in England and Wales 1.12% London residential development fund Aomi Project TMK registered in Japan 3.50% Real estate investment Greater Tokyo Office Fund registered in Jersey 3.25% Investment property fund Pegaxis Pte Ltd registered in Singapore 15.00% Digital property management services T he Group holds more than 20% of the equity interest in YOPA Property Ltd and Vucity Ltd, however does not have the power to participate in the financial and operational decisions of these entities, does not have representation on the Board of Directors of these entities and does not participate in major policy-making processes of the entities.
As a result, the Groups investments in YOPA Property Ltd and Vucity Ltd are treated as available-forsale investments.
Savills plc 142 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group does not exert significant influence over these investments, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
At 31 December 2017 the Group held conditional commitments to co-invest 0.3m in the Greater Tokyo Office Fund, 0.2m in the Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures Fund No.
1 LP, and 0.1m in the Prime London Residential Development Fund II.
18.3 Group Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI Financial assets at FVOCI comprise the following individual equity investments: 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets Listed securities OnTheMarket plc 1.1 Unlisted securities YOPA Property Ltd 12.7 Vucity Ltd 6.0 Savills IM Japan Value Fund II 2.4 Aomi Project TMK 2.3 Greater Tokyo Office Fund 2.1 Euro V 1.4 Prime London Residential Development Fund II 0.8 Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 LP 0.6 Prime London Residential Development Fund 0.3 Serviced Land No.
2 LP 0.3 Home Click Pte Ltd 0.2 FPD Property Services India Private Ltd 0.2 Other smaller investments 0.8 31.2 T he Group holds more than 20% of the equity interest in YOPA Property Ltd and Vucity Ltd, however does not have the power to participate in the financial and operational decisions of these entities, does not have representation on the Board of Directors of these entities and does not participate in major policy-making processes of the entities.
As a result, the Group does not exert significant influence over these investments.
These investments were classified as available-for-sale investments in 2017, see Note 18.2.
During the year, the Group increased its investment in YOPA Property Ltd and Vucity Ltd at a total cost of 4.5m and made new investments in Home Click Pte Ltd, Euro V and Savills IM Japan Value Fund II at a total cost of 4.0m.
Furthermore, the Group previously held loan notes 0.9m due from Agents Mutual Ltd, which were converted to shares in OntheMarket plc and sold its majority shareholding in FPD Property Services India Private Ltd with the resulting shareholding of 19.5% held as an equity investment at FVOCI 0.2m.
Equity investments at FVOCI are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 m m Sterling 22.0 Japanese yen 5.0 Hong Kong dollar 2.1 Euro 1.6 Other 0.5 31.2 Refer to Note 3.8 for information about methods and assumptions used in determining fair value.
At 31 December 2018 the Group held conditional commitments to co-invest 0.2m in the Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures Fund No.
Savills plc 143 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 18.
Investments and transactions continued 18.4 Company Investments in subsidiaries Shares in Group Loans to Group undertaking undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 57.2 61.5 118.7 Loans advanced 8.6 8.6 Loans repaid 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2017 57.2 66.5 123.7 Loans advanced 45.1 45.1 Loans repaid 40.0 40.0 At 31 December 2018 57.2 71.6 128.8 Refer to Note 34 for a full list of the Groups subsidiaries.
18.5 Acquisitions of subsidiaries The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the Groups acquisitions in the year are provisional and will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
These are summarised below: Provisional fair value to the Group Cluttons Other Middle East Broadgate Currell acquisitions Total m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 0.2 1.0 Investment in joint ventures 0.5 0.5 Intangible assets 5.5 13.5 0.4 19.4 Trade and other Current assets: receivables 4.8 1.5 0.5 6.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.5 0.4 1.3 Total assets 11.6 13.5 2.4 1.5 29.0 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 1.2 1.2 0.6 3.0 Current income tax liability 0.2 0.2 Employment benefit provision 1.3 1.3 Non-current other payables 0.8 0.8 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.9 2.3 0.1 3.3 Net assets 7.4 11.2 1.2 0.6 20.4 Non-controlling interests 0.1 0.1 Net assets acquired 7.3 11.2 1.2 0.6 20.3 Goodwill 13.9 2.3 1.8 3.1 21.1 Purchase consideration 21.2 13.5 3.0 3.7 41.4 Consideration satisfied by: Net cash paid 17.5 12.6 3.0 3.7 36.8 Discounted value of deferred consideration owing at the reporting date 3.7 0.9 4.6 21.2 13.5 3.0 3.7 41.4 Savills plc 144 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cluttons International Holdings Limited and Cluttons Management Limited collectively Cluttons Middle East On 31 May 2018 the Group acquired 100% of the equity interest in Cluttons Middle East, establishing the Groups first wholly owned business in the region.
Total acquisition consideration is provisionally determined at 21.2m, 17.5m of which was settled on completion and the remainder relating to the discounted value of deferred consideration of up to 3.7m, payable on the first, second and third anniversaries of completion.
Acquisition-related costs of 1.2m have been expensed as incurred to the income statement.
The fair value exercise is in progress and goodwill of 13.9m has been provisionally determined.
Goodwill is attributable to the experience and expertise of key staff and strong industry reputation and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The acquired business contributed revenue of 7.6m and underlying profit of 0.9m to the Group for the period from 1 June 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the financial year, revenue would have been 12.3m and underlying profit would have been 1.4m.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 4.8m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 2.3m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables is 2.6m, of which 0.3m is expected to be uncollectible.
Third party property management portfolio of Broadgate Estates Limited Broadgate On 2 August 2018 the Group acquired Broadgate from British Land.
Total acquisition consideration is provisionally determined at 13.5m, 12.6m of which has been settled in cash during the year with a further estimated 0.9m expected to be paid during 2019.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.6m have been expensed as incurred to the income statement.
The fair value exercise is in progress and goodwill of 2.3m has been provisionally determined.
Goodwill is attributable to the strong industry reputation and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The acquired business contributed revenue of 6.0m and underlying profit of 0.6m to the Group for the period from 2 August 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the financial year, revenue would have been 15.0m and underlying profit would have been 1.5m.
The Currell Group Ltd Currell On 10 December 2018 the Group acquired 100% of the equity interest in Currell, a property services company in East London, UK.
Total acquisition consideration is provisionally determined at 3.0m, all of which was settled on completion.
A further 3.5m is payable in December 2019, 2020 and 2021 and is deemed to be linked to continued active engagement within the business.
As required by IFRS 3 revised these payments will be expensed to the income statement over the relevant period of engagement.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.2m have been expensed as incurred to the income statement.
The fair value exercise is in progress and goodwill of 1.8m has been provisionally determined.
The acquired business contributed revenue of 0.4m and underlying profit of nil to the Group for the period from 10 December 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Had the acquisition been made at the beginning of the financial year, revenue would have been 8.3m and underlying profit would have been 0.7m.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 1.5m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 0.5m.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables is 0.5m, all of which is expected to be collectible.
Savills plc 145 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 18.
Investments and transactions continued 18.5 Acquisitions of subsidiaries continued Other acquisitions during the period During the period, the Group also made a number of smaller acquisitions, including 100% of Central Management Solutions Limited, an urban-centre management company in the UK, JP Case & Co Property Services Ltd, a Manchester city centre based lettings and new homes business, Porta Planning LLP, a London based planning and development consultancy, Martel Maides Ltd, a property agency in Guernsey and the Knutsford UK branch of residential agency Meller Braggins.
Total cash consideration paid was 3.7m.
A further 2.2m is subject to service conditions and will be expensed to the income statement over the period of service.
Goodwill of 3.1m has been provisionally determined.
The acquired businesses contributed revenue of 2.3m and underlying profit of 0.3m to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of the financial year, revenue would have been 5.4m and underlying profit would have been 0.9m.
The total fair value of trade and other receivables is 0.5m and includes trade receivables with a fair value of nil.
Update to provisional fair value of prior period acquisition During the period, the total acquisition consideration payable for the Aguirre Newman acquisition on 29 December 2017 was finalised, with an additional 2.0m of consideration paid.
This adjustment is considered a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3 and as a result the prior period comparatives have been restated by increasing goodwill arising on the acquisition by 2.0m, with a corresponding increase in trade and other payables to recognise additional deferred consideration as at 31 December 2017.
18.6 Transactions with non-controlling interests During the year, the Group undertook the following transactions with non-controlling interests: Total holding at Holding 31 December Name Date acquired 2018 Savills Investment Management SGR April 2018 25% 100% a Acquisitions of additional interest in subsidiaries Under IFRS 10, transactions with non-controlling interests must be accounted for as equity transactions, therefore no goodwill has been recognised.
Acquisition costs related to this transaction were not significant.
In April 2018, the Group acquired an additional 25% of the shares in its Italian investment management business, Savills Investment Management SGR SIMSGR, for a net consideration of 3.0m, with 2.6m paid on completion.
This takes the Groups shareholding in the entity to 100%.
The carrying amount of SIMSGRs net assets on the date of acquisition was 5.0m.
The Group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interest of 1.2m.
The amount charged to retained earnings in respect of the transaction was 1.8m.
2018 m Carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired 1.2 Net consideration to acquire non-controlling interests 3.0 Charge recognised in parents equity 1.8 Savills plc 146 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 21.3 29.5 0.8 1.5 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 8.4 7.4 0.6 0.7 29.7 36.9 1.4 2.2 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 4.6 2.2 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 1.4 0.7 6.0 2.9 Deferred tax asset net 23.7 34.0 1.4 2.2 Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m At 1 January asset 34.0 32.9 2.2 2.5 Amount credited charged to the income statement Note 13 0.5 8.2 0.1 Effect of tax rate change within the income statement Note 13 0.3 0.9 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income Pension asset on actuarial gain 2.8 2.8 0.2 0.1 Pension asset on additional contributions 1.7 1.7 0.1 0.2 Pension asset effect of UK tax rate change within other comprehensive income 0.1 Employee benefits 3.1 0.8 0.6 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.1 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.1 0.1 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 3.3 0.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 Exchange movement 0.5 0.4 At 31 December asset 23.7 34.0 1.4 2.2 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Savills plc 147 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 19.
Deferred income tax continued As at the reporting date the Group did not recognise deferred tax income tax assets of 1.8m 2017: 1.4m in respect of losses amounting to 7.8m 2017: 5.9m, of which 0.2m expires within 5 years 2017: nil and the remaining 1.6m being carried forward indefinitely against future taxable income.
Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m Revaluations m m At 1 January 2017 1.4 16.0 3.5 10.2 5.4 36.5 Amount credited charged to the income statement Note 13 0.5 5.2 0.9 2.3 7.1 Effect of tax rate change within income statement Note 13 1.0 0.2 0.1 1.1 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 4.5 0.8 5.3 Effect of tax rate change charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.1 0.1 Transfer to from deferred tax assets 0.3 0.1 0.2 Additions through business combinations 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 0.6 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2017 2.2 19.6 2.5 5.7 6.9 36.9 Amount charged credited to the income statement Note 13 0.5 2.2 0.7 0.2 0.2 1.0 1.0 Effect of tax rate change within the income statement Note 13 0.1 0.2 0.3 Amounted credited charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.4 3.1 2.7 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 3.6 3.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Exchange movement 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2018 1.6 17.4 3.3 2.4 0.2 4.8 29.7 Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Intangible allowances provisions benefits Revaluations assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 0.1 1.6 0.1 1.8 3.6 Amount credited to the income statement Note 13 0.6 0.5 1.1 Effect of tax rate change within the income statement Note 13 0.2 0.2 Tax credited to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.1 0.1 0.2 Additions through business combinations 0.9 0.9 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2017 0.1 0.9 1.9 2.9 Tax charged credited to the income statement Note 13 0.1 0.7 0.9 1.5 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.1 4.9 4.8 Transfer from deferred tax assets 3.6 3.6 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 3.3 3.3 Exchange movement 0.2 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 0.2 1.0 0.5 4.3 6.0 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2018 23.7 At 31 December 2017 34.0 Savills plc 148 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2017 0.3 0.7 0.4 1.1 2.5 Amount charged credited to the income statement 0.4 0.4 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 0.3 0.3 0.1 1.5 2.2 Amount charged credited to the income statement 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Tax charged to other comprehensive income Note 13 0.3 0.6 0.9 At 31 December 2018 0.3 0.1 1.0 1.4 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2018 1.4 At 31 December 2017 2.2 20.
Trade and other receivables 20.1 Trade and other receivables current Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Trade receivables 441.8 391.2 Less: loss allowance impairment of receivables provision 22.6 19.9 Trade receivables net 419.2 371.3 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 7.8 5.3 Other receivables 32.1 53.0 0.1 0.1 Prepayments and accrued income 77.0 66.3 2.4 2.5 528.3 490.6 10.3 7.9 The carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to their fair value.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client owing a significant amount.
The credit quality of receivables is managed at a local subsidiary level.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest-free and generally cleared within the month.
The carrying amounts of the Groups gross trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2018 2017 m m Sterling 174.0 155.0 Euro 86.8 73.2 US dollar 47.8 42.6 Hong Kong dollar 28.5 39.6 Australian dollar 49.1 31.4 Chinese renminbi 26.9 22.6 Other 28.7 26.8 441.8 391.2 O ther currencies include United Arab Emirates Dirham, South Korean won, Singapore dollar, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollar, Indonesian rupiah, Philippine peso, Malaysian ringgit, Macau pataca, New Taiwan dollar, Thailand baht, Polish zloty, Swedish krona and Canadian dollar.
Savills plc 149 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 20.
Trade and other receivables continued 20.2 Group Loss allowance impairment of trade receivables provision The difference between the impairment of receivables provision as at 31 December 2017 and the opening loss allowance provision for trade receivables as at 1 January 2018 under IFRS 9 is not considered material, after the impact on bonus.
Therefore no adjustments have been made to opening retained earnings.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The loss allowance provision for trade receivables as at 31 December 2018 and 1 January 2018 on adoption of IFRS 9 was determined as follows: the expected credit losses below also incorporate forward looking information.
More than More than More than More than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days 31 December 2018 Current past due past due past due past due Total Expected loss rate 0.8% 1.2% 1.1% 10.4% 67.5% 5.1% Gross carrying amount m 323.9 40.3 27.1 25.9 24.6 441.8 Loss allowance provision m 2.5 0.5 0.3 2.7 16.6 22.6 More than More than More than More than 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days 1 January 2018 Current past due past due past due past due Total Expected loss rate 0.6% 1.4% 1.4% 8.3% 51.6% 5.0% Gross carrying amount m 258.0 57.6 21.7 25.4 28.5 391.2 Loss allowance provision m 1.6 0.8 0.3 2.1 14.7 19.5 The loss allowance provision for trade receivables as at 31 December reconciles to the opening loss allowance for that provision as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 19.9 19.3 Amendment following implementation of IFRS 9 0.4 - Adjusted balance as at 1 January 19.5 19.3 Increase in loan loss allowance recognised in the income statement during the period 5.1 4.2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.4 2.9 Foreign exchange 0.7 At 31 December 22.6 19.9 In accordance with transitional provisions in IFRS 9 7.2.
The following disclosures relate to the 2017 comparatives.
As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables of 280.6m were neither past due nor impaired and fully performing.
As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables of 19.9m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2017 m Up to 3 months 1.6 3 to 6 months 4.9 Over 6 months 13.4 19.9 As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables of 90.7m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
Savills plc 150 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2017 m Up to 3 months 69.4 3 to 6 months 16.1 Over 6 months 5.2 90.7 Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2017 m At 1 January 19.3 Provisions for receivables impairment 7.2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.9 Unused provisions released 3.0 Exchange movements 0.7 At 31 December 19.9 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating expenses in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 192.6 198.1 90.2 90.8 Short-term bank deposits 31.3 10.7 223.9 208.8 90.2 90.8 The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value.
The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2018 was 1.91% 2017: 1.35% : these deposits have an average maturity of 36 days 2017: 53 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 34.7m 2017: 41.6m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Sterling 8.9 5.1 90.1 90.8 Hong Kong dollar 62.9 61.5 Euro 35.4 56.1 Chinese renminbi 36.4 37.9 US dollar 36.7 10.1 0.1 Japanese yen 4.8 8.6 Australian dollar 7.1 7.7 South Korean won 9.8 6.8 Singapore dollar 6.6 4.3 Other currencies 15.3 10.7 223.9 208.8 90.2 90.8 O ther currencies include United Arab Emirates Dirham, Canadian dollar, Czech koruna, New Taiwan dollar, Macau pataca, Thai baht, Vietnamese dong, New Zealand dollar, Philippine peso, Danish krone, Polish zloty and Swedish krona.
Savills plc 151 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 22.
Trade and other payables 22.1 Trade and other payables current Group Company 2017 2018 Restated 2018 2017 m m m m Deferred consideration Note 22.3 15.7 21.3 Trade payables 109.4 111.6 1.9 1.7 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2.5 2.4 Other taxation and social security 54.2 46.4 0.8 0.9 Other payables 63.0 49.7 0.1 Accruals 386.8 358.6 9.3 8.1 629.1 587.6 14.6 13.1 S ee Note 2.26 for details about changes in accounting policies and prior year restatement and Note 18.2 for details of prior period restatement of trade and other payables in relation to a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
The carrying value of trade and other payables is approximate to their fair value.
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand.
22.2 Other payables non-current Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Deferred consideration Note 22.4 22.1 21.6 Other payables 16.1 14.0 38.2 35.6 22.3 Deferred consideration current 2017 2018 Restated m m At 1 January 21.3 59.1 Reclassification from non-current deferred consideration Note 22.4 10.7 16.4 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 3.5 4.2 Deferred consideration linked to employment accrued during year 3.6 4.2 Interest unwind 0.6 0.4 Deferred consideration paid 24.0 60.4 Exchange movements 2.6 At 31 December 15.7 21.3 S ee Note 2.26 for details of prior period restatement of current deferred consideration in relation to a measurement period adjustment in accordance with IFRS 3.
22.4 Deferred consideration non-current 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 21.6 23.5 Reclassification to current deferred consideration Note 22.3 10.7 16.4 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 1.8 11.3 Deferred consideration linked to employment accrued during year 8.4 6.3 Interest unwind on discounted deferred consideration 0.5 0.3 Deferred consideration paid 2.8 Exchange movements 0.5 0.6 At 31 December 22.1 21.6 Savills plc 152 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23.
Borrowings Group 2018 2017 m m Current Bank overdrafts 3.6 Unsecured bank loans due within one year or on demand 0.4 106.5 0.4 110.1 Non-current Loan notes 150.0 Transaction costs issuance of loan notes 0.5 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 149.6 0.1 150.0 110.2 The Company does not have any borrowings as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
In April 2018, the Group increased the multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF by 60.0m to 360.0m.
The RCF expires on 15 December 2020.
As at 31 December 2018 nil 2017: 106.0m of the RCF was drawn.
In June 2018, the Group raised 150.0m of long-term debt through the issuance of 7, 10 and 12 year fixed rate private note placements intothe US institutional market.
The unsecured bank loans due within one year or on demand reflects a 0.4m working capital loan in Thailand, which is payable on demand, denominated in Thailand baht and has an effective interest rate of 4.55%.
Movements in borrowings are analysed as follows: Group 2018 2017 m m Opening amount as at 1 January 110.2 35.8 Additional borrowings 305.0 184.9 Borrowings acquired through business combinations 0.1 Repayments of borrowings including overdraft movement 265.2 110.6 Closing amount as at 31 December 150.0 110.2 The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes at the reporting date are: Group 2018 2017 m m Less than 1 year 0.4 110.1 Between 2 and 5 years 0.1 0.1 0.5 110.2 The Groups non-current loan notes are fixed rate notes and therefore excluded from the above analysis.
The effective interest rates at the reporting date were as follows: Group 2018 2017 % % Bank overdrafts 2.62 Bank loans 4.09 1.51 Loan notes 3.16 The carrying amounts of borrowings are approximate to their fair value.
Savills plc 153 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 23.
Borrowings continued The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2018 2017 m m Sterling 149.5 109.4 Other 0.5 0.8 150.0 110.2 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Group 2018 2017 m m Floating rate expiring within 1 year or on demand 32.1 33.5 Floating rate expiring between 1 and 5 years 360.1 194.2 392.2 227.7 24.
Derivative financial instruments Group Assets Liabilities 2018 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 0.1 Interest rate cap contract at fair value 0.1 0.1 Group Assets Liabilities 2017 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.5 0.1 Interest rate cap contract at fair value 0.5 0.1 The Company does not have any derivative financial instruments as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The gross notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2018 were 43.5m 2017: 94.1m.
All contracts mature within one year and are classed as current.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in net foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement.
Interest rate cap contract The interest rate cap contract matures in December 2020.
Gains and losses on the interest rate cap are recognised in net finance costs in the income statement.
Savills plc 154 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 25.
Provisions 25.1 Provisions Professional indemnity Dilapidation Restructuring claims provisions Onerous leases provision Group total Company m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 11.3 7.0 2.0 4.0 24.3 0.6 Provided during the year 2.6 1.0 0.4 0.2 4.2 Utilised during the year 1.4 1.0 2.6 5.0 Released during the year 1.5 0.8 2.3 0.6 Total 11.0 8.0 1.4 0.8 21.2 Less non-current portion 5.5 6.6 0.7 12.8 Current portion 5.5 1.4 0.7 0.8 8.4 Professional indemnity Dilapidation Restructuring claims provisions Onerous leases provision Group total Company 2017 m m m m m m Current 5.1 1.4 0.9 4.0 11.4 Non-current 6.2 5.6 1.1 12.9 0.6 Total 11.3 7.0 2.0 4.0 24.3 0.6 a Professional indemnity claims These arise from various legal actions, proceedings and other claims that are pending against the Group and are based on reasonable estimates, taking into account the opinions of legal counsel.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of legal actions, proceedings and other claims is such that the extent and timing of cash flows can be difficult to estimate and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
The non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to five years.
Included are provisions for claims relating to subsidiaries prior to their disposal.
b Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and in certain instances restore properties to agreed specifications prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
These amounts are based on estimates of repair and restoration costs at a future date and therefore a degree of uncertainty exists over the future outflows, given that these are subject to repair and restoration cost price fluctuations and the extent of repairs to be completed.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to nine years.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to five years.
d Restructuring provision This provision comprises termination payments to employees affected by restructuring and lease termination penalties.
Savills plc 155 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 25.
Provisions continued 25.2 Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 11.2, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2018 27.2 Additions through business combinations Note 18.5 1.3 Provided during the year 6.0 Utilised during the year 7.6 Exchange movements 0.3 At 31 December 2018 27.2 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in the UK, Asia Pacific and Europe & the Middle East.
Profit shares are included within accruals Note 22.
The Company had 0.1m of employee benefit obligations as at 31 December 2018 2017: 0.1m, relating to holiday pay and long service leave.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2018 2017 m m Current 15.8 11.2 Non-current 11.4 16.0 27.2 27.2 26.
Share capital Group and Company 2018 2017 Number of Number of 2018 2017 Authorised and allotted shares shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Issued, called up and fully paid 142,923,604 141,931,341 3.6 3.5 Movement in issued, called up and fully paid share capital: 2018 2017 Number of Number of shares m shares m At 1 January 141,931,341 3.5 139,809,677 3.5 Issued to direct participants on exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme 820,985 0.1 6,891 Issued to direct participants under the Performance Share Plan 171,278 166,797 Issued to satisfy final instalment of shares due to former Studley, Inc. stockholders in relation to the acquisition in 2014 1,947,976 At 31 December 142,923,604 3.6 141,931,341 3.5 Each issued, called up and fully paid ordinary share of 2.5p is a voting share in the capital of the Company, is entitled to participate in the profits of the Company and on winding-up is entitled to participate in the assets of the Company.
Savills plc 156 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements As at 31 December 2018, the EBT held 5,502,275 shares 2017: 4,819,684 shares and the Rabbi Trust held 1,386,356 shares 2017: 800,000.
These shares are held as treasury shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees of the EBT and the Rabbi Trust, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
The EBT waives all of its dividend entitlement.
For further details of the EBT and the Rabbi Trust refer to Note 2.21.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 8 May 2018, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 14,178,941 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 9 May 2017: 13,967,033.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next AGM or 7 August 2019, whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment The Group operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Sharesave Scheme, the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Share Plan DSP and the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The Group recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions of 18.2m in 2018 2017: 14.5m.
Of the total share-based payments charge, 0.5m 2017: 0.6m relates to the Sharesave schemes, 0.4m 2017: 0.6m relates to PSP schemes, 7.1m 2017: 4.7m relates to DSP schemes and 10.2m 2017: 8.6m relates to DSBP schemes.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of the various schemes, pages 66 to 84.
27.1 Movements in share schemes Sharesave 2018 number of awards 000 awards PSP awards DSP awards DSBP awards Outstanding at 1 January 967 558 2,560 4,050 Granted 1,467 170 1,606 1,101 Exercised cancelled 829 156 411 995 Forfeited lapsed 12 30 166 74 Outstanding at 31 December 1,593 542 3,589 4,082 Exercisable at 31 December 72 Weighted average exercise price for awards outstanding at end of the year pence 638.8 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.6 2.5 1.9 1.6 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year pence 840.0 979.4 941.4 968.0 Sharesave 2017 number of awards 000 awards PSP awards DSP awards DSBP awards Outstanding at 1 January 1,066 690 2,333 3,992 Granted 172 1,135 1,053 Exercised cancelled 42 152 854 954 Forfeited lapsed 57 152 54 41 Outstanding at 31 December 967 558 2,560 4,050 Exercisable at 31 December Weighted average exercise price for awards outstanding at end of the year pence 666.2 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 0.5 1.9 2.0 1.7 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year pence 652.6 868.1 912.5 918.2 Savills plc 157 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 27.
Share-based payment continued 27.2 Fair value of options For all the DSP and DSBP schemes the fair value of awards is the closing share price before award date.
The Actuarial Binomial model of actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock LLP is used to fair value awards granted under the PSP and Sharesave schemes.
The key inputs to determine the fair value of the awards granted under the PSP scheme and Sharesave scheme during 2018 are shown below.
Performance Share Plan: Awards in the year ended 31 December 2018 16 April 2018 Share price at grant date 973.5p Risk-free rate 1.2% Volatility of Savills share price 23% per annum Correlation of Savills share price to index 44% Employee turnover Zero The expected volatility is measured over the three years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk-free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK government bond at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option or award.
Sharesave Plan: Awards in the year ended 31 December 2018 2 October 2018 Share price at grant date 782.5p Risk-free rate 1.0% Volatility of Savills share price 23% per annum 4% over the vesting Allowance for pre-vesting cancellations period Employee turnover Zero The fair values of options granted in the period are shown below.
Grant Grant date Deferred period Fair value pence DSP 2018 8 January 2018 3 5 years 980.0 DSP 2018 16 April 2018 3 years 976.5 DSP 2018 6 June 2018 1 5 years 963.1 DSP 2018 10 August 2018 3 years 829.5 DSP 2018 3 September 2018 3 5 years 800.0 DSBP 2018 16 April 2018 3 4 years 976.5 PSP 2018 16 April 2018 5 years 739.3 SAYE 2018 2 October 2018 3 years 146.2 Savills plc 158 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 28.
Retained earnings and other reserves ShareCapital based Profit Total redemption Merger Foreign Total payments Treasury and loss retained and capital relief exchange Revaluation other reserve shares account earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2018 33.2 41.7 255.7 247.2 1.7 34.9 61.0 0.8 98.4 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 76.7 76.7 Other comprehensive income loss 12.5 12.5 19.5 0.2 19.3 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 18.2 18.2 Exercise of options 14.0 11.4 2.6 Purchase of treasury shares 25.1 25.1 Dividends 41.4 41.4 Disposal of equity investments at FVOCI 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.1 0.5 Transfer between reserves 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Transactions with non-controlling interests 1.8 1.8 Balance at 31 December 2018 37.4 55.4 304.5 286.5 2.1 34.9 80.1 0.5 117.6 Included within profit and loss account is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 13 as disclosed above.
ShareCapital based Profit Total redemption Merger Foreign Total payments Treasury and loss retained and capital relief exchange Revaluation other reserve shares account earnings reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 28.9 37.9 204.8 195.8 1.7 23.6 77.6 1.0 103.9 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 80.1 80.1 Other comprehensive income loss 13.3 13.3 16.1 0.5 15.6 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 14.5 14.5 Exercise of options 10.1 13.4 3.3 Withdrawal of options 0.1 0.1 Purchase of treasury shares 17.2 17.2 Dividends 39.3 39.3 Shares issued 11.3 11.3 Disposal of available-for-sale investments 0.5 0.7 1.2 Balance at 31 December 2017 33.2 41.7 255.7 247.2 1.7 34.9 61.0 0.8 98.4 Included within profit and loss account is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 13 as disclosed above.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
Savills plc 159 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 30.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts due within: Within 1 year 55.9 51.1 7.0 7.0 Between 1 to 5 years 178.7 136.8 28.1 28.1 After 5 years 119.4 123.0 61.3 70.3 354.0 310.9 96.4 105.4 Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the UK, Europe & the Middle East, Asia Pacific and North America.
There are no significant non-cancellable sub-leases.
Cash generated from operations Group Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Profit for the year 77.2 81.1 55.5 64.0 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 13 32.2 31.3 2.1 2.1 Depreciation Note 17 14.9 13.5 0.9 1.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 16 10.3 7.0 0.4 0.3 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 16 0.3 2.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.8 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity investments 2.9 5.9 Net finance cost income Note 12 2.3 1.3 1.1 0.8 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates Note 18.1 11.1 9.9 Decrease in employee and retirement obligations 7.0 7.9 0.3 0.5 Exchange movement on operating activities 0.6 0.2 Decrease increase in provisions 3.2 2.3 0.6 1.3 Charge for share-based compensation Note 27 18.2 14.5 2.1 2.4 Exercise of share options 10.1 13.4 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 131.4 129.4 44.7 49.7 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables and contract assets 36.7 44.8 2.3 8.6 Increase decrease in trade and other payables and contract liabilities 53.1 60.5 1.5 8.4 Cash generated from operations 147.8 145.1 43.9 49.9 Foreign exchange movements resulted in a 10.9m increase in current and non-current trade and other receivables and contract assets 2017: 8.9m decrease and a 12.3m increase in current and non-current trade and other payables and contract liabilities 2017: 16.4m decrease.
Savills plc 160 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 32.
Analysis of cash net of debt Movements through business combinations Exchange At 1 January Cash flows and disposals movement At 31 2018 m m m m December m Cash and cash equivalents 208.8 6.7 1.4 9.8 223.9 Bank overdrafts 3.6 3.6 205.2 10.3 1.4 9.8 223.9 Bank loans 106.5 106.1 0.4 Loan notes 150.0 150.0 Transaction costs issuance of loan notes 0.5 0.5 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 98.6 33.1 1.4 9.8 73.9 Additions through business Exchange At 1 January Cash flows combinations movement At 31 2017 m m m m December m Cash and cash equivalents 223.6 7.6 7.2 208.8 Bank overdrafts 0.2 3.4 3.6 223.4 11.0 7.2 205.2 Bank loans 35.6 70.9 106.5 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 187.8 81.9 0.1 7.2 98.6 33.
Related party transactions Other than disclosed below and the information provided within the Remuneration Report, there were no significant related party transactions during the year.
a Loans to related parties Loans to joint ventures are disclosed in Note 18.1. b Company transactions The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms length value of 21.6m 2017: 19.4m.
Dividends of 55.3m were received from subsidiaries during the year 2017: 60.0m.
Amounts outstanding to and from subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018 are disclosed in Notes 20 and 22.
Savills plc 161 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 34.
Group Investments In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, the registered office and the percentage of equity owned by the Group, as at 31 December 2018, are disclosed below.
All subsidiary undertakings are consolidated into the Group financial statements.
Unless otherwise stated the share capital is wholly comprised of ordinary shares which are indirectly held by the Company.
Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Corporate Real Estate Services Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Incoll Group Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Incoll Management Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Moores Cost Consulting Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills ACT Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Aust Holdings Pty Ltd ii Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Aust Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills NSW Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills QLD Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills SA Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills TAS Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills VIC Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills WA Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Investment Management Australia Pty Ltd Australia Level 36, Gateway, 1 Macquarie Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Project Management Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Project Services SA Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Property Management NSW Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Savills Valuations Pty Ltd Australia Level 25, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney, NSW 2000 Cluttons Bahrain Limited SPC Bahrain Flat shop: 2804, Building: 2504, Road: 2832, Block: 428, Area: Al Seef, Manama Cluttons Sales SPC iv Bahrain Flat shop: 2802, Building: 2504, Road: 2832, Block: 428, Area: Al Seef, Manama Savills Canada Inc Canada 181 Bay Street Suite 200, Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 Savills Studley Services Inc Canada 181 Bay Street Suite 200, Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 Savills Studley Inc Canada Canada 181 Bay Street Suite 200, Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 Guardian Property Services Shanghai Company Ltd China Room 220, Block 1, No.
100 Jinyu Road, Pu Dong, Shanghai Savills Business Information Technology Shenzhen Ltd China Unit 201, A Tower, No.
1 QianWan Yi Road, Qianhai Shengan Cooperation District, Shenzhen Savills Property Services Beijing Company Ltd China 2101 East Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 Savills Property Services Chengdu Company Ltd China Room 2106, Yanlord Landmark, No.
1 Section 2, Renmin South Road, Chengdu 610016 Savills Property Services Guangzhou Company Ltd China Room 1301, R&F Center, No.
10 Hua Xia Road, Zhujiang New Town, Guangzhou 510623 Savills Property Services Hengqin Ltd China Room 105-19233, No.
6 Baohua Road, Hengqin New Area, Zhuhai Savills Property Services Shanghai Company Ltd China Unit D, Room 62, Block 3, No.
227, Ru Shan Road, Shanghai Savills Property Services Tianjin Company Ltd China Unit 4607, Tianjin World Financial Center, No.
2 Dagu North Road, Xiaobailou Street, Heping District, Tianjin Savills Property Services Wuhan Company Ltd China Unit 08-10, 27 F, CITIC PACIFIC Mansion, No.
1627 Zhongshan Avenue, Jiangan District Savills Property Services Zhuhai Company Ltd China Room 2204, 22 F, Tower B, China Overseas Building, Midtown, No.
2021 Jiuzhou West Avenue, Zhuhai Savills Real Estate Valuation Beijing Company Ltd China Unit 01, 21 F, East Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 Savills plc 162 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Savills Real Estate Valuation Guangzhou Company Ltd China Room 2105, R&F Center, No.
10 Hua Xia Road, Zhujiang New Town, Guangzhou 510623 Savills Valuation and Professional Services BJ Ltd China Unit 07, 21 F, East Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 Savills Valuation and Professional Services GZ Ltd China Room 2105, R&F Centre, No.
10 Hua Xia Road, Zhujiang New Town, Guangzhou Shanghai Shan Mei Real Consulting Ltd China Room 5, 2F, No.
707 Zhangyang Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai Shanghai XinMin Equity Investment Management China Unit 602, No.
4, Lane 541, Wenshui East Road, Hongkou District, Company Ltd Shanghai Shenzhen Guardian Property Management Ltd China Room 3, Unit A, 5 F, Anlian Plaza, No.
4018 Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen 518026 Swan Property Services Beijing Company Ltd China 2101 East Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022 Savills CZ s. r. o. Czech Republic V Celnici 1031 4, 110 00 Prague 1 Savills Investment Management ApS Denmark stergade 13, 2 F, 1100, Kbenhavn K Cluttons Egypt Consulting JSC Egypt Building 17, Street 210, Al Maadi, Cairo Savills Investment Management SAS France 54-56 Avenue Hoche, 75008 Paris Piccadilly General Partner GmbH Germany Rotfeder-Ring 7, D-60327 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Advisory Services Germany GmbH & Co. KG Germany Taunusanlage 18, 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Advisory Services GmbH Germany Taunusanlage 18, 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Fund Management Holding AG Germany Rotfeder-Ring 7, D-60327 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH Germany Taunusanlage 18, 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Immobilien Beteiligungs GmbH Germany Taunusanlage 18, 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Immobilien Management GmbH Germany Taunusanlage 18, 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Investment Management Germany GmbH Germany Sonnenstrasse 19, Munich Martel Maides Ltd Guernsey 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WD Savills Channel Islands Ltd Guernsey 22 Smith Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 2JQ Bridgewater Management Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing BTHK Property Management Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Champion Insurance and Computer Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Dominion Office Centre Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing East Full Company Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Express Engineering Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Express Maintenance Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Gateway Contractors Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Greenscape Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing GRVM Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guard Able Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Care Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Management Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Mandarin Management Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Partners Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Property Agencies Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Guardian Property Management Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Hip Kwan Property Management Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Kenda Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Kwik Park Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Larry Smith Asia Ltd Hong Kong Unit 1009, 10 F, Chinachem Golden Plaza, 77 Mody Road Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon, Savills plc 163 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 34.
Group Investments continued Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Mount Link Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Quartey Properties Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills China Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Asia Pacific Ltd ii Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Building Services Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Design Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Engineering Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Guardian Holdings Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills IM Shanghai Investco Limited Hong Kong 16F Nexxus Building, 41 Connaught Road, Central Savills India Holding Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Indonesia Holding Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Investment Management Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East Savills Investment Management Asia Ltd Hong Kong Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East Savills Management Services Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Philippines Holding Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Project Consultancy Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Property Management Holdings Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Property Management Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Realty Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Regional Services Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Residence Ltd Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills Valuation and Professional Services Ltd Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Security and Safety Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Swan Hygiene Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Swan Pest Control Services Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Tarrayon Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing The Peninsular Centre Retailers Association Ltd Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Cluttons India Private Limited India Flat no.
333, 3 F, Devika Tower, 6 Nehru Place, New Delhi 110019 Actium ii Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Anateo Ltd ii Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 HOK Financial Services Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Liffey Valley Management Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Mahon Point Management Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Savills Advisory Services Ireland Limited Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Savills Commercial Ireland Ltd ii Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Savills Management Resource Ireland Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Savills Residential Ireland Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 White Water Newbridge Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 White Water Management Ltd Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 White Water Residential DAC Ireland 33 Molesworth Street, Dublin 2 Savills Investment Management SGR S. p. A Italy Via San Paolo 7, 20121 Milan Savills Italy S. r. l. Italy Via San Paolo 7, 20121 Milan Savills Larry Smith S. r. l. Italy Viale Vittorio Veneto 20, 20124 Milan Savills Asset Advisory Company Ltd Japan Yurakucho ITOCIA 15 F, 2-7-1 Yurakucho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100- 0006 Savills Investment Architecture Design GK Japan 3 F BPR Place Kamiyacho, 1-11-9 Azabudai, 1 Chome-11 Azabudai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-0041 Savills Japan Company Ltd Japan Yurakucho ITOCIA 15 F, 2-7-1 Yurakucho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100- 0006 Savills IM CMISIM Co-Investment GP Ltd Jersey 3 F Liberation House, Castle Street, St Helier, JE1 1BL Savills plc 164 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Greater Tokyo Office Fund Jersey GP Ltd Jersey 3 F Walker House, 28-34 Hill Street, St Helier, JE4 8PN Prime London Residential Development Jersey GP Ltd Jersey 3 F Walker House, 28-34 Hill Street, St Helier, JE4 8PN Prime London Residential Development Jersey II GP Ltd Jersey 3 F Walker House, 28-34 Hill Street, St Helier, JE4 8PN Savills Jersey Ltd Jersey 19 Halkett Place, St Helier, JE2 4WG Savills IM CMISIM Co-Investment GP Ltd Jersey 3 F Liberation House, Castle Street, St Helier, JE1 1BL Savills Investment Management Jersey Ltd Jersey 3 F Walker House, 28-34 Hill Street, St Helier, JE4 8PN Savills IM European Fund V GP S. a. r. l. Luxembourg 10, rue C. M. Spoo Savills Macau Ltd Macau Suite 1309-1310, 13 F Macau Landmark, 555 Avenida da Amizade Savills Project Consultancy Macau Ltd Macau Suite 1309-1310, 13 F Macau Landmark, 555 Avenida da Amizade Savills Property Management Macau Ltd Macau Suite 1309-1310, 13 F Macau Landmark, 555 Avenida da Amizade Savills Myanmar Ltd Myanmar No.
65, Corner of Sule Pagoda Road & Merchant Street, Kyauktada Township, Yangon Savills B. V. Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Holdings B. V. Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Investment Management B. V. Netherlands Vida Building, Kabelweg 57, 1014 BA Amsterdam Savills NZ Ltd New Zealand Level 8, 33 Shortland Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010 Savills NI Ltd Northern Ireland 1 F, Lesley Studios, 32-36 May Street, Belfast, BT1 4NZ FPD Management Services Philippines Inc Philippines 12 F, Times Plaza Building, United Nations Avenue corner Taft Avenue, Ermita, Manila 1000 Savills Investment Management Sp Zoo Poland Ul.
Mia 2, 00-180 Warsaw Savills Property Management Sp Zoo Poland Ul.
Zota 59, 00-120 Warsaw Savills Sp Zoo Poland Ul.
Zota 59, 00-120 Warsaw Aguirre Newman Portugal Consultoria Lda Portugal Praa Marqus fide Pombal, 16 7, 1250163 Lisbon Aguirre Newman Portugal Mediacao Imobiliaria Lda Portugal Praa Marqus fide Pombal, 16 7, 1250163 Lisbon iProcurePro Pte Ltd Singapore 30 Cecil Street, #20-03 Prudential Tower, 049712 Savills SEA Pte Ltd Singapore 30 Cecil Street #20-03 Prudential Tower, 049712 Savills Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 30 Cecil Street #20-03 Prudential Tower, 049712 Savills Investment Management Pte Ltd Singapore 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898 Savills Property Management Pte Ltd Singapore 20 Martin Road #03-01 02 Seng Kee Building, 239070 Savills Residential Pte Ltd Singapore 30 Cecil Street #20-03 Prudential Tower, 049712 Savills Valuation & Professional Services S Pte Ltd Singapore 30 Cecil Street #20-03 Prudential Tower, 049712 Savills Korea Advisors Realty Company Ltd South Korea 15F Tower 8, 7 Jongro5-gil Jongno-gu, Seoul Savills Korea Company Ltd South Korea 13F Seoul Finance Center, 136 Sejong-daero Jung-gu, Seoul Savills Aguirre Newman Arquitectura Barcelona SAU Spain Avda.
Diagonal 609-615, Barcelona Savills Aguirre Newman Arquitectura SAU Spain Calle General Lacy 23, 28045 Madrid Savills Aguirre Newman Barcelona SAU Spain Avda.
Diagonal 609-615, Barcelona Savills Aguirre Newman Consultores SAU Spain Calle General Lacy 23, 28045 Madrid Savills Aguirre Newman SAU Spain Calle General Lacy 23, 28045 Madrid Savills Aguirre Newman Urbanismo SAU Spain Calle General Lacy 23, 28045 Madrid Savills Aguirre Newman Valoraciones y Tasaciones SAU Spain Avda.
Diagonal 609-615, Barcelona Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA Spain Jos Abascal, 45 1 planta, 28003 Madrid Savills Investment Management S. L Spain Calle Velazquez 78 1, 28001 Madrid Zaphir Asset Management SLU Spain Calle General Lacy 23, 28045 Madrid Loudden Bygg-och Fastighetsservice AB Sweden Box 6317, 102 35 Stockholm Savills Frvaltning AB Sweden Sergels Torg 12, 111 57 Stockholm Savills Investment Management AB Sweden Kungsgatan 56, 111 22 Stockholm Savills Sweden AB Sweden Sergels Torg 12, 111 57 Stockholm Savills Sweden Investment AB Sweden Sergels Torg 12, 111 57 Stockholm Savills Taiwan Ltd Taipei 21 F, No.
5, Zhong-Xiao East Road, Taipei 110 Savills Residential Services Taiwan Ltd Taipei 21 F, No.
5, Zhong-Xiao East Road, Taipei 110 Savills Valuation & Professional Services Taiwan iii Taipei 21 F, No.
5, Zhong-Xiao East Road, Taipei 110 Savills plc 165 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 34.
Group Investments continued Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Savills Thailand Ltd Thailand 990 Abdulrahim Place Building, 26 F, Rama IV Road, Silom Subdistrict, Bang Rak District, Bangkok Savills Services Thailand Ltd Thailand 990 Abdulrahim Place Building, 26 F, Rama IV Road, Silom Subdistrict, Bang Rak District, Bangkok Cluttons LLC iv United Arab 22 F, Arenco Tower, Sheikh Zayed Road, PO Box 3087 Emirates Cluttons Real Estate LLC iv United Arab 2702C, Al Marzouqi Towers, King Faisal Street Emirates B Bids Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Blair Kirkman LLP United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Buckleys Estate Agents Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Chesterfield & Co Rentals Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Christopher Rowland Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD CMS Creative Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Collier & Madge Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Collier & Madge plc United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Cordea Savillls SLP GP Ltd United Kingdom Wemyss House, 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Cordea Savillls SLP II LP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ Cordea Savillls SLP LP United Kingdom Wemyss House, 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Cordea Savills Investments Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Currell Commercial Ltd United Kingdom 9 Bonhill Street, London, EC2A 4DJ Currell Management LLP United Kingdom 9 Bonhill Street, London, EC2A 4DJ Currell Residential Ltd United Kingdom 9 Bonhill Street, London, EC2A 4DJ GBR Phoenix Beard Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD GBR Phoenix Beard Group Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD GBR Phoenix Beard Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD GBR Phoenix Beard Residential Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD GBR Property Consultants Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Granville Residential Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Grosvenor Hill Ventures Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD GTOF Co-Investment GP LLP United Kingdom Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5HD GTOF Co-Investment LP United Kingdom Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5HD Hanover Facilities Management Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Hepher Dixon Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Holden Matthews Estate Agents Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Humphriss & Ryde Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Jago Dean PR Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD JP Case & Co Property Services Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD LIBRA Housing Advisory Services Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Management Exclusive LLP United Kingdom 9 Bonhill Street, London, EC2A 4DJ Mansfield Elstob Main Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Moor House Management Services Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Optic Asset Management Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD PCA Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD PCA Management Consultants Limited United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Phoenix Beard Landscaping Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Phoenix Beard Manpower Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Phoenix Beard Trustees Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills plc 166 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Portnalls Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Prime London Residential Development Co-Investment United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ GP LLP Prime London Residential Development Co-Investment II United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ GP LLP Prime London Residential Development Co-Investment II LP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ Prime London Residential Development Co-Investment LP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ Prime London Residential Development GP LLP United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Prime London Residential Development II GP LLP United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Prime Purchase Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Rickitt Grant & Company Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD S F Securities Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savillls IM SLP II GP LLP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, EH3 9WJ Savillls IM UK Income and Growth General Partner LLP United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Europe Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills L&P Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Overseas Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills UK Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Advisory Services L&P Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Advisory Services Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Asset Warehouse 1 Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Asset Warehouse 2 Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Capital Advisors Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Commercial Leeds Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Commercial Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Finance Holdings plc United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Financial Services Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Holding Company Ltd i United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM Dawn GP Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM Euro V Co-Investment GP LLP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ Savills IM Euro V Co-Investment LP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ Savills IM Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM Investco Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM JVF II Co-Investment GP LLP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ Savills IM JVF II Co-Investment LP United Kingdom 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ Savills IM SLP General Partner LLP United Kingdom Wemyss House, 8 Wemyss Place, Edinburgh, EH3 6DH Savills IM SLP III GP LLP United Kingdom Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5HD Savills IM SLP III LP United Kingdom Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5HD Savills IM UK One Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM UK Property Ventures No.
1 GP Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills IM UK Two Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills India Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Investment Management UK Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Investment Management LLP United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Investment Management Overseas Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Italy Holding Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills KSA Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills plc 167 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 34.
Group Investments continued Country of Fully-owned subsidiary incorporation Registered office Savills Lending Solutions Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Management Resources Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills ME Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Middle East Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Nominee Company Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Place-Shaping & Marketing Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Savills Telecom Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Serviced Land No.
1 GP Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Serviced Land No.
2 GP Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Serviced Land No.
2 JV GP Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Smith Woolley Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Stratland Management Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD The Currell Group Ltd United Kingdom 9 Bonhill Street, London, EC2A 4DJ The Destination Partnership Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD The London Planning Practice Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Wellington Holdings Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Yoohop Ltd United Kingdom 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD BTR Capital Advisors I LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 BTR Capital Advisors II Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 BTR Capital Advisors III Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Gravitas Lease Audit Services LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Gravitas Real Estate Solutions LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Kelly, Legan & Gerard Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills L&P Inc United States Unex House, 132-134 Hils Road, Cambridge CB2 8PA Savills America Ltd United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Investment Management USA Inc United States 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808 Savills Investment Management Inc United States 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808 Savills LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Studley GA Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Studley ME LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Studley Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Studley Occupier Services Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Studley Securities LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 SSOC LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Studley Associates Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Studley Asia Holdings United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Studley Gravitas Real Estate Solutions LLC United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Studley International Inc United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 The Great Studley Stamp Company United States 399 Park Avenue 11 F, New York, NY 10022 Savills Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam 6 F, Sentinel Place building, 41A Ly Thai To, Hoan Kiem District, Hanoi City Savills plc 168 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Subsidiaries of which the Group % Country of owns less than 100% owned incorporation Registered office Savills Belux Group SA 99.90 Belgium Avenue Louise 81, 1050 Brussels Savills Property Services Shenzhen Company Ltd 85.00 China Unit A, 5 F Anlian Plaza, No.
4018 Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen 518026 Savills SA 99.97 France 21 Boulevard Haussmann 75009, Paris Savills Valuation SAS 99.97 France 21 Boulevard Haussmann, 75009 Paris Savills Fund Management GmbH 94.00 Germany Rotfeder-Ring 7, D-60327 Frankfurt-am-Main Savills Investment Management KVG GmbH 94.90 Germany Rotfeder-Ring 7, D-60327 Frankfurt-am-Main Absolute Result Ltd 80.20 Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Savills Billion Property Management Ltd 80.00 Hong Kong Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing PT Savills Consultants Indonesia 80.40 Indonesia Indonesia Stock Exchange Building, Tower I, Lt. 12, Jl.
52-53, Senayan, Kebayoran Baru, Jakarta Selatan Savills Investment Management Luxembourg S.. r. l. 94.90 Luxembourg 10, rue C. M. Spoo Savill Asset and Property Management BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Agency BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Consultancy BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Investments BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Nederland Holdings BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Savills Retail BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Tagis BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Tagis Property Management BV 90.25 Netherlands Violy Building, Claude Debussylaan 48, Amsterdam 1082 MD Cluttons & Partners LLC 65.00 Oman Hatat Complex Suite 30-36, G F, P O Box 1475, Ruwi, Sultanate of Oman, Location Wadi Adai Romellah SGDN Ltd 51.00 United Kingdom Stuart House, City Road, Peterborough, PE1 1QF % Country of Joint Ventures owned incorporation Registered office Anlian Savills Property Management Shenzhen Ltd 25.50 China Unit B02 b, 19 F, Anlian Plaza, No.
4018, Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen Beijing BHG Savills Retail & Property Management 30.00 China Room 107, Block 1, No 208, Lane 4, North Xiangyun Road, Daxing Company Ltd District, Beijing Beijing CCP & Savills Property Services Management 25.00 China A6 West Da Wang Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing Company Ltd Beijing China Railway Savills Property Management 49.00 China Room 926, 15 Guang An Road, Feng Tai District, Beijing Services Company Ltd Beijing Financial Street Savills Property Management 20.00 China B1 F, Tong Tai Building, 33 Financial Street, West District, Beijing Company Ltd Beijing Haizhi Savills Property Management Company Ltd 40.00 China Zone B, 6 F, Tower B, No.
18 Zhong Guan Cun Avenue, Haidian District, Beijing Beijing Jiaming Savills Property Management Company 35.00 China B2 Floor, No.
27 East 3rd Ring Rd North, Chaoyang District, Ltd Beijing Beijing Oriental Savills Asset Management Company Ltd 30.00 China Unit 303, 3 F No, 9 West Street Wangfujing, Dongcheng District, Beijing Beijing Tianrun Savills Property Management Company 49.00 China Unit 3501A, 35 F, No.
8 Jianguomenwai Dajie, Chaoyang District, Ltd Beijing Beijing Zhaotai Savills Property Services Company Ltd 30.00 China B1 Floor, 11 Fenghui Yuan, Tai Ping Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing Beijing Zhong Bao Savills Property Management 10.00 China 603 China Life Tower, 16 Chao Wai Street, Chaoyang District, Company Ltd Beijing Chongqing Huayu Savills Property Services Group 30.00 China No.
118-6, Taishan Avenue, Yubei District, Chongqing Company Ltd COSCO FPDSavills Property Development Company Ltd 25.00 China Unit M, 7 F, No.
720 Pudong Ave, Pudong District, Shanghai Daisy Savills Property Management Beijing Company 35.00 China Unit 702, Tower 2, Office Building, 7 F, No.
18 Jianguomennei Ltd Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing Everbright Savills Property Management Company Ltd 45.00 China Room E-266, 3 F, Ru Shan Road No.
227, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai Fuzhou Hengli & Savills Property Management Company 45.00 China Unit B, 4 F Zhongliu City, No.
171, Hu Dong Road, Gu Lou District, Ltd Fuzhou Gohigh Savills Shanghai Property Management 49.00 China Room 203D, 2 F, No.
21, Lane 596 Middle Yanan Road, Jingan Company Ltd District, Shanghai Savills plc 169 Report and Accounts 2018 Notes to the financial statements continued Year ended 31 December 2018 34.
Group Investments continued % Country of Joint Ventures owned incorporation Registered office Guangzhou Nansi & Savills Property Management 49.00 China Room 1304, Feng Ze Dong Road No.
106, Nan Sha Area, Company Ltd Guangzhou Beijing Hongyuan Savills Property Management Company 40.00 China Unit 104, 1 F, Building 4, No.
2 Jinsui Avenue, Shunyi District, Ltd Beijing Nanjing Smart Science Technology Park & Savills Property 30.00 China Room 468, 4 F, Building 9, Xingzhihui Business Garden, 19 Management Company Ltd Xinghuo Road, Jiangbei New District, Nanjing 210008 Savills BM Property Services Company Ltd 40.00 China Room 115, No.
53, Lane 749, Middle Tianmu Road, Zhabei District, Shanghai Savills Raycom Property Management Beijing Company 30.00 China Unit B1-08, No.
2 South Road Ke Xue Yan, Haidian District, Beijing Ltd Shanghai No.
1 and FPDSavills Property Management 51.00 China Unit B1-08, No.
2 South Road Ke Xue Yan, Haidian District, Beijing Company Ltd Shanghai Poly Savills Property Management Company 30.00 China Unit 01, 20 F, South Tower, No.
528 South Pu Dong Road, Pu Ltd Dong, Shanghai Shanxi Zhidi Savills Property Services Company Ltd 30.00 China 4 F, block 3, No.
42 Xing Shan Temple, Xian City Shenzhen Qianhai Savills Property Services Company Ltd 40.00 China Unit 201, A Tower, No.
1, Qian Wan Road, Qianhai Shengan Cooperation District, Shenzhen Suzhou Industrial Park Wanrun & FPD Savills Property 45.00 China 2 F, International Building, No.
2 Suzhou Avenue West, Suzhou Management Company Ltd industrial Park Tianjin TEDA Savills Property Services Company Ltd 10.00 China 5 F, Tower C3, Zone C, Teda MSD, No.
79 First Avenue, Economy & Technology Development Zone, Tianjin Wuhan Yuexiu Savills Property Services Company Ltd 40.00 China Yuexiu Xinghuiyunjin, 2 F, No.
1 Zhongshan Ave, Qiaokou District, Wuhan Zhongzheng Savills Property Management Beijing Co 49.00 China Unit A4-12, 4 F, Building 4, No, 24 Yard, Jiuxianqiao Middle Road, Ltd Chaoyang District, Beijing Zhuhai Hengqin Savills Assets Operation Management 51.00 China Room 105-1460, No.
6 Baohua Road, Hengqin new area, Zhuhai Company Ltd Greenmile Ventures Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong P. O.
Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands Greenwall Gateway Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Jiayi Savills Property Services Ltd 51.00 Hong Kong 23 F, Two Exchange Square, 8 Connaught Place, Central Skywise Technology & Innovation Company Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong 7 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Savills IM CMISIM Jersey GP Ltd 50.00 Jersey 3 F, Liberation House, Castle Street, St Helier, JE1 1BL G. E. S. Holdings Ltd 50.00 Macau Alameda Dr. Carlos DAssumpcao, No.
7 F, K P G. E. S. Ltd 50.00 Macau Alameda Dr. Carlos DAssumpcao, No.
7 F, K P Cluttons Saudi Arabia Company Ltd 49.00 Saudi Arabia Dammam, Malek Saud Street, 31411 Savills Science Ltd 50.00 United 33 Margaret Street, London, W1G 0JD Kingdom Savills plc 170 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements % Country of Associates owned incorporation Registered office SAS Riviera Estates 44.80 France 11 Avenue Jean Medecin, 06000, Nice Flat G&H, 55 F, Block 3, Metro Town, Tseung Kwan O, New Guardian Home Ltd 40.00 Hong Kong Territories KSH Guardian Property Management Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong 7th Floor, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Lippo-Savills Property Management Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong Room 2301, 23 F, Tower One, Lippo Centre, 89 Queensway Rooms 805-813, 8 F, Cityplaza One, 1111 King's Road, Taikoo Savills Taiping Property Management Ltd 45.00 Hong Kong Shing Yuen Sang Property Management Company Ltd 50.00 Hong Kong 7th Floor, Cityplaza One, 1111 Kings Road, Taikoo Shing Hengli Savills Property Management Ltd 49.00 Hong Kong Unit 1806-08, Tower Two, Lippo Centre, 89 Queensway Cordea Nichani India Advisers Private Ltd 25.00 India Ground Floor Front, 19 Kumarakrupa Road, Bangalore 560001 No.
2 Jalan Raja Abdullah, Off Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50300 Kuala Savills Johor Sdn Bhd 45.00 Malaysia Lumpur No.
2 Jalan Raja Abdullah, Off Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50300 Kuala Savills KL Sdn Bhd 45.00 Malaysia Lumpur No.
2 Jalan Raja Abdullah, Off Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50300 Kuala Savills Malaysia Sdn Bhd 45.00 Malaysia Lumpur No.
2 Jalan Raja Abdullah, Off Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50300 Kuala Savills Penang Sdn Bhd 45.00 Malaysia Lumpur No.
2 Jalan Raja Abdullah, Off Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50300 Kuala Savills Project Management Sdn Bhd 45.00 Malaysia Lumpur Rootcorp Ranganatha Ltd 25.00 Mauritius 4 F, Raffles Tower, 19 Cybercity, Ebene Monaco Real Estates SARL 51.00 Monaco 10 Ter Boulevard Princesse Charlotte Huttons Asia Pte Ltd 48.00 Singapore 3 Bishan Place, #02-01 CPF Bishan Building, S 579838 Huttons Capital Pte Ltd 48.00 Singapore 3 Bishan Place, #05-01 CPF Bishan Building, S 579838 United DRC Capital LLP 25.00 Kingdom 4 F, 6 Duke Street St James's, London, SW1Y 6BN i Directly owned by Savills plc.
ii Both ordinary and redeemable shares owned by the Group.
iv Economic interest part economic interest.
The total non-controlling interest at the end of the year is 0.7m 2017: 1.5m.
The non-controlling interests in respect of the above subsidiaries that the Group does not own a holding of 100% are not considered to be individually material.
There were no material transactions with non-controlling interests during the year.
Refer to Note 21 for details on restrictions on the Groups ability to access cash in the Groups Asia Pacific operating subsidiaries.
Savills plc 171 Report and Accounts 2018
