171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 52 Definitions of Terms and Performance Measures The terms and performance measures below are those Leverage commonly used by investment companies to assess For the purpose of the AIFM Directive, leverage is any method values, investment performance and operating costs.
which increases the Companys exposure, including the Some of the financial measures below are classified as borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed Alternative Performance Measures as defined by the as the ratio of the Companys exposure to its net asset value European Securities and Markets Authority, and some and is required to be calculated both on a Gross and a numerical calculations are given for those.
Under the Gross method, exposure represents the sum of the absolute values of all positions, so as to give an indication of overall exposure.
Under the Net asset value NAV per share Commitment method, exposure is calculated in a similar way, The NAV per share represents the net assets attributable to but after netting off hedges which satisfy certain strict equity shareholders divided by the number of shares in issue, criteria.
excluding any shares held in treasury.
The NAV per share is published daily.
Total return Total return represents the combined effect of any dividends Benchmark index Benchmark paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV The Benchmark measure against which the Company per share.
Total return statistics enable the investor to make compares its performance, which is deemed to be the most performance comparisons between investment companies appropriate comparison and which is used for management with different dividend policies.
Any dividends received by a information purposes.
The Companys Benchmark is the MSCI shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either All Countries Asia excluding Japan Index with net income the assets of the Company at its NAV per share at the time reinvested, sterling adjusted.
The Company has changed its the shares were quoted ex-dividend to calculate the NAV per benchmark with effect from 1October 2016.
Prior to that date share total return or in additional shares of the Company to the benchmark was the MSCI All Countries Asia excluding calculate the share price total return.
Japan Index with gross income reinvested, sterling adjusted, The NAV total return for the year ended 30September 2018 is and prior to 31January 2011 the benchmark was the MSCI All calculated as follows: Countries Far East excluding Japan Index, sterling adjusted.
Opening NAV at 30 9 17 477.38p Closing NAV at 30 9 18 492.17p Discount premium Dividend NAV on received XD date XD date Factor The discount premium is the amount by which the share 5.6p 28 12 2017 515.41p 1.011 price of an investment trust is lower discount or higher premium than the NAV per share.
The discount or premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
NAV total return, being the closing NAV, multiplied by the factor, expressed as a percentage increase in the opening NAV: 4.2% Gearing The share price total return for the year ended 30September 2018 is calculated as follows: The gearing amount is the borrowings i. e. bank loans or overdrafts the Company has used to invest in the market.
Opening share price at 30 9 17 426.00p This figure is indicative of the extra amount by which Closing share price at 30 9 18 430.00p shareholders funds would move if the Companys Share investments were to rise or fall.
This represents borrowings Dividend price on used for investment purposes, less cash, expressed as a received XD date XD date Factor percentage of net assets.
If the figure so calculated is 5.6p 28 12 2017 447.50p 1.013 negative, this is shown as a Net cash position.
The gearing calculation is included in note 20 on page 47.
Share price total return, being the closing share price, multiplied by the factor, expressed as a percentage increase in the Ongoing charges opening share price: 2.2% Ongoing charges represents the management fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs and transaction costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net asset values during the year of 854,948,000 2017: 727,262,000.
Ongoing charges figures for 2011 and prior years represent the expenses calculated as above, expressed as a percentage of the average month end net asset values during the year.
Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 52 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 53 Shareholder Information Webpages and share price information Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive The Company has dedicated webpages, which may be found at www.
The webpages are the The AIFM Directive, as transposed into the FCA Handbook in Companys primary method of electronic communication the UK, requires that certain pre-investment information be with shareholders.
It contains details of the Companys made available to investors in Alternative Investment Funds ordinary share price and copies of the report and accounts such as the Company and also that certain regular and periand other documents published by the Company as well as odic disclosures are made.
This information and these discloinformation on the directors, terms of reference of sures may be found either below, elsewhere in this annual committees and other governance arrangements.
In report, or in the Companys AIFM Directive information discloaddition, the webpages contain links to announcements sure document published on the Companys webpages.
made by the Company to the market, Equinitis shareview service and Schroders website.
There is also a section entitled How to Invest.
Leverage The Company releases its NAV per share on both a cum and The Companys leverage policy and details of its leverage ex-income basis to the market on a daily basis.
ratio calculation and exposure limits as required by the AIFM Share price information may also be found in the Financial Directive are published on the Companys webpages and Times and on the Companys webpages.
The Company is also required to publish periodically its actual leverage exposures.
As at 31 October 2018 these were: Association of Investment Companies Leverage exposure Maximum ratio Actual ratio The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Gross method 2.0 1.2 Companies.
Further information on the Association can be Commitment method 2.0 1.3 found on its website, www.
Individual Savings Account ISA status Illiquid assets The Companys shares are eligible for stocks and shares ISAs.
As at the date of this Report, none of the Companys assets are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments nature.
status The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares Remuneration disclosures can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to Quantitative remuneration disclosures to be made in this non-mainstream investment products and intends to annual report in accordance with FCA Handbook rule continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
5 may also be found in the Companys AIFM shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to Directive information disclosure document published on the non-mainstream investment products because they are Companys webpages.
shares in an investment trust.
Publication of Key Information Document Financial calendar KID by the AIFM Annual General Meeting January Pursuant to the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Final dividend paid January February Products PRIIPs Regulation, the Manager, as the Half year results announced June Companys AIFM, is required to publish a short KID on the Company.
KIDs are designed to provide certain prescribed Financial year end 30 September information to retail investors, including details of potential Annual results announced December returns under different performance scenarios and a risk reward indicator.
The Companys KID is available on its webpages.
171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 54 www.
co. uk asiapacific Independent auditors Directors  LLP Nicholas Smith 7 More London Riverside Keith Craig London SE1 2RT Rosemary Morgan Martin Porter Registrars James Williams Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Advisers Lancing Alternative Investment Fund Manager West Sussex BN99 6DA the Manager Shareholder Helpline: 0800 032 0641 Website: www.
co. uk Schroder Unit Trusts Limited 1 London Wall Place Calls to this number are free of charge from UK landlines.
London EC2Y 5AU Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address Investment Manager and Company Secretary held on the register.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to shareholdings, including a change of address or other Schroder Investment Management Limited amendment should be directed to Equiniti Limited at the 1 London Wall Place above address.
London EC2Y 5AU Telephone: 020 7658 3847 Shareholder enquiries General enquiries about the Company should be addressed Registered Office to the Company Secretary at the address set out above.
1 London Wall Place London EC2Y 5AU Dealing Codes ISIN: GB0007918872 Depositary and Custodian SEDOL: 0791887 HSBC Bank plc Ticker: SDP 8 Canada Square Global Intermediary Identification Number GIIN London E14 5HQ SWLQRM.
826 Lending Bank Legal Entity Identifier LEI Scotiabank Europe plc 549300A71N7LE35KWU14 201 Bishopsgate 6th Floor London EC2M 3NS Corporate Broker Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT The Companys privacy notice is available on its webpages.
