171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 50 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting 1.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at enter the Voting ID and Shareholder Reference ID set out the meeting and to appoint one or more proxies, who in their personalised proxy form.
Alternatively, need not be a shareholder, as their proxy to exercise all shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their Shareview service can appoint a proxy by logging onto behalf at the meeting.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote.
The on-screen instructions give details A proxy form is attached.
If you wish to appoint a person on how to complete the appointment process.
Please other than the Chairman as your proxy, please insert the note that to be valid, your proxy instructions must be name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided received by Equiniti no later than 12.00 noon on at the top of the form.
If the proxy is being appointed in 21 January 2019.
If you have any difficulties with online relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please voting, you should contact the shareholder helpline on enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the 0800 032 0641 or 44 0 121 415 0207 for overseas number of shares in relation to which they are callers.
authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full If an ordinary shareholder submits more than one valid voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued proxy appointment, the appointment received last in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take full voting entitlement for that designated account.
Additional proxy forms can be obtained by contacting the Shareholders may not use any electronic address Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, on 0800 032 0641 provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or 44 0 121 415 0207 for overseas callers, or you may or any related documents to communicate with the photocopy the attached proxy form.
Please indicate in Company for any purposes other than expressly stated.
the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as Representatives of shareholders that are corporations your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box will have to produce evidence of their proper provided if the proxy instruction is one of multiple appointment when attending the Annual General instructions being given.
Completion and return of a Meeting.
form of proxy will not preclude a member from 2.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 person.
to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder under an agreement between him or her and the who is present in person has one vote and every duly shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have a appointed proxy who is present has one vote.
On a poll right to be appointed or to have someone else vote, every ordinary shareholder who is present in appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If person or by way of a proxy has one vote for every share a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment of which he she is a holder.
right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give The Vote Withheld option on the proxy form is provided instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However it should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of The statement of the rights of ordinary shareholders in the proportion of the votes For and Against a relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above resolution.
does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised by ordinary A proxy form must be signed and dated by the shareholders of the Company.
shareholder or his or her attorney duly authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holdings, any one holder may 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities sign this form.
The vote of the senior joint holder who Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be those shareholders registered in the Register of accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint members of the Company at 6.30 p. m. on 21 January holder and for this purpose seniority will be determined 2019, or 6.30 p. m. two days prior to the date of an by the order in which the names appear on the Register adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote of Members in respect of the joint holding.
To be valid, at the meeting in respect of the number of shares proxy form s must be completed and returned to the registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Register of Members after 6.30 p. m. on 21 January 2019 Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, in the shall be disregarded in determining the right of any enclosed envelope together with any power of attorney person to attend and vote at the meeting.
or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies such authority certified notarially, to arrive no later than through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, or an may do so by using the procedures described in the adjourned meeting.
Shareholders may also appoint a CREST manual.
The CREST manual can be viewed at proxy to vote on the resolutions being put to the meeting www.
A CREST message appointing a electronically at www.
Shareholders who proxy a CREST proxy instruction regardless of whether are not registered to vote electronically, will need to Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 50 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 51 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction previously given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments.
Copies of the articles of association, terms of appointment of the non-executive directors and a statement of all transactions of each director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company, will be available for inspection by any member of the Company at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting by any attendee, for at least 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
None of the directors has a contract of service with the Company.
The biographies of the directors offering themselves for re-election are set out on pages 15 and 16 of the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018.
As at 10 December 2018, 167,570,716 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were in issue no shares were held in treasury.
Therefore the total number of voting rights of the Company as at 10 December 2018 was 167,570,716.
A copy of this Notice of meeting, which includes details of shareholder voting rights, together with any other information as required under Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the webpages dedicated to the Company: www.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must cause to be answered at the Annual General Meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member attending the meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Annual Report and Accounts 51 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Annual General Meeting
