171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 10 Strategic Review standard formats to construct models and to forecast Promotion company earnings which have been developed by the global The Company promotes its shares to a broad range of research team.
This means that outputs from the models are investors which have the potential to be long-term standardised so that differences in accounting regimes are as supporters of the investment strategy.
The Company seeks to far as possible eliminated and that comparisons can be made achieve this through its Manager and corporate broker, between companies in the same industry across the region or which promote the shares of the Company through regular globally.
contact with both current and potential shareholders.
Stock gradings reflect a balance between analysts view of the Promotion is focused via three channels: quality of the company and its fair value in the marketplace, and their level of conviction.
The Manager promotes the Company via both London and regional teams.
This Stock selection portfolio construction market is the largest channel by a significant margin.
From these inputs the portfolio manager assesses the Execution-only investors.
The Company promotes its fundamental characteristics of the stocks with a particular shares including to retail investors, via engaging with focus on companies with visible earnings growth, sustainable platforms and through its website.
Volume is smaller but returns and valuation support, and ranks them according to a platforms have experienced strong growth in recent view of upside downside potential and the level of conviction times and are an important focus for the Manager.
he has in the investment view.
Weightings within the portfolio reflect these considerations, with the primary objective being to create a portfolio with an These activities consist of investor lunches, one-on-one appropriate level of stock-specific risk as the primary driver of meetings, regional road shows and attendances at returns.
While much of the portfolio construction is founded conferences for professional investors.
In addition, the on the portfolio managers skill and intuition, he also Companys shares are supported by the Managers wider harnesses the Managers proprietary risk management marketing of investment companies targeted at all types of system, Portfolio Risk Investment Strategy Manager PRISM, investors.
This includes maintaining close relationships with to provide a quantitative view of the characteristics of the adviser and execution-only platforms, advertising in the trade portfolio.
The portfolio manager also sets, in conjunction with press, maintaining relationships with financial journalists and the board, the gearing of the portfolio.
the provision of digital information on Schroders website.
The board also seeks active engagement with investors and meetings with the Chairman are offered to professional investors where appropriate.
Investment restrictions and spread of risk Details of the boards approach to discount management The key restrictions imposed on the Manager are that: a no may be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and in more than 15% of the Companys total net assets, at the date the Explanation of Special Business at the AGM on page 48. of acquisition, may be invested in any one single company: b no more than 10% of the Companys total net assets, at the date of acquisition, may be invested in other listed investment companies unless such companies have a stated Key performance indicators investment policy not to invest more than 15% of their gross The board measures the development and success of the assets in other listed investment companies: c the Company Companys business through achievement of its investment will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other objective which is considered to be the principal key listed investment companies or investment trusts: d no performance indicator for the Company.
more than 15% of the Companys total net assets may be invested in open-ended funds: and e no more than 25% of The board continues to review the Companys ongoing the Companys total net assets may be invested in the charges to ensure that the total costs incurred by aggregate of unlisted investments and holdings representing shareholders in the running of the Company remain 20% or more of the equity capital of any company.
No competitive when measured against peer group funds.
An breaches of these investment restrictions took place during analysis of the Companys costs, including the management the financial year.
fee, directors fees and general expenses, is submitted to each board meeting.
The investment portfolio on pages 7 and 8 demonstrates that, as at 30 September 2018, the Company held 67 investments spread over multiple countries and in a range of industry sectors.
The largest investment, Taiwan Corporate and Social Responsibility Semiconductor, represented 7.0% of total investments at 30 September 2018.
At the end of the year, the Company did Board gender diversity not hold any unlisted investments, open-ended funds or real As at 30 September 2018, the board comprised four men and estate investment trusts, except for the open-ended Schroder one woman.
Candidates for board vacancies are selected Small Cap Discovery Fund Z Acc, which represents 1.0% of based on their skills and experience, which are matched total investments at 30 September 2018.
The board believes against the balance of skills and experience of the overall that the objective of spreading risk has been achieved.
board taking into account the criteria for the role being offered.
Candidates are not specifically selected on the Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 10 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 11 Strategic Review grounds of their gender but this is taken into account when the board examines its overall balance, skill set and experience.
Responsible investment policy The Company delegates to its Manager the responsibility for taking environmental, social and governance ESG issues into account when assessing the selection, retention and realisation of investments.
The board expects the Manager to engage with investee companies on social, environmental and business ethics issues and to promote best practice.
The board expects the Manager to exercise the Companys voting rights in consideration of these issues.
A description of the Managers policy on these matters can be found on the Schroders website at www.
The board notes that Schroders believes that companies with good ESG management often perform better and deliver superior returns over time.
Engaging with companies to understand how they approach ESG management is an integral part of the investment process.
Schroders is compliant with the UK Stewardship Code and its compliance with the principles therein is reported on its website.
Anti-bribery and corruption policy The Company continues to be committed to carrying out its business fairly, honestly and openly and continues to operate an anti-bribery and corruption policy.
Greenhouse gas emissions As the Company outsources its operations to third parties, it has no greenhouse gas emissions to report.
Annual Report and Accounts 11 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 12 Strategic Review Principal risks and uncertainties The board is responsible for the Companys system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has adopted a detailed matrix of principal risks affecting the Companys business as an investment trust and has established associated policies and processes designed to manage and, where possible, mitigate those risks, which are monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee on an ongoing basis.
This system assists the board in determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving the Companys strategic objectives.
Both the principal risks and the monitoring system are also subject to robust review at least annually.
The last review took place in November 2018.
Although the board believes that it has a robust framework of internal controls in place this can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company have remained unchanged throughout the year under review.
Cyber risk relating to all of the Company's key service providers is considered an ongoing threat in light of the rising propensity and impact of cyber attacks on businesses and institutions.
To address the risk, the board receives reporting on cyber risk mitigation and management from its key service providers to ensure that it is managed and mitigated appropriately.
Actions taken by the board and, where appropriate, its committees, to manage and mitigate the Companys principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the table below.
Risk Mitigation and management Strategic The Companys investment objectives may become out of The appropriateness of the Companys investment remit is line with the requirements of investors, resulting in a wide periodically reviewed and the success of the Company in discount of the share price to underlying NAV per share.
meeting its stated objectives is monitored.
The share price relative to NAV per share is monitored and the use of buy back authorities is considered on a regular basis.
Marketing and distribution activity is actively reviewed.
The Companys cost base could become uncompetitive, The ongoing competitiveness of all service provider fees is particularly in light of open ended alternatives.
subject to periodic benchmarking against their competitors.
Annual consideration of management fee levels is undertaken.
Investment management The Managers investment strategy, if inappropriate, may Review of: the Managers compliance with its agreed result in the Company underperforming the market and or investment restrictions, investment performance and risk peer group companies, leading to the Company and its against investment objectives and strategy: relative objectives becoming unattractive to investors.
performance: the portfolios risk profile: and whether appropriate strategies are employed to mitigate any negative impact of substantial changes in markets.
Annual review of the ongoing suitability of the Manager.
Regular meetings with major shareholders to seek their views with respect to company matters, including the five-yearly continuation vote.
Financial and currency The Company is exposed to the effect of market fluctuations The risk profile of the portfolio is considered and due to the nature of its business.
A significant fall in regional appropriate strategies to mitigate any negative impact of equity markets or a substantial currency fluctuation could substantial changes in markets or currency are discussed have an adverse impact on the market value of the with the Manager.
The Company has no formal policy of hedging currency risk but may use foreign currency borrowings or forward foreign currency contracts to limit exposure.
Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 12 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 13 Strategic Review Risk Mitigation and management Custody Safe custody of the Companys assets may be compromised The depositary reports on the safe custody of the through control failures by the depositary, including cyber Companys assets, including cash and portfolio holdings hacking.
which are independently reconciled with the Managers records.
Review of audited internal controls reports covering custodial arrangements is undertaken.
An annual report from the depositary on its activities, including matters arising from custody operations is received.
Gearing and leverage The Company utilises credit facilities.
These arrangements Gearing is monitored and strict restrictions on borrowings increase the funds available for investment through are imposed: gearing continues to operate within preborrowing.
While this has the potential to enhance agreed limits so as not to exceed 20% of shareholders investment returns in rising markets, in falling markets the funds.
impact could be detrimental to performance.
Accounting, legal and regulatory In order to continue to qualify as an investment trust, the Confirmation of compliance with relevant laws and Company must comply with the requirements of Section regulations by key service providers is reviewed.
1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Shareholder documents and announcements, including the Breaches of the UK Listing Rules, the Companies Act or Companys published Annual Report, are subject to other regulations with which the Company is required to stringent review processes.
comply, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes.
Procedures are established to safeguard against the disclosure of inside information.
Service provider The Company has no employees and has delegated certain Service providers are appointed subject to due diligence functions to a number of service providers.
Failure of processes and with clearly-documented contractual controls, including as a result of cyber hacking, and poor arrangements detailing service expectations.
performance of any service provider, could lead to Regular reports are provided by key service providers and disruption, reputational damage or loss.
the quality of their services is monitored.
Review of annual audited internal controls reports from key service providers, including confirmation of business continuity arrangements and IT controls is undertaken.
Risk assessment and internal controls Risk assessment includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control operating within key service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by such providers to the Audit and Risk Committee, including the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Companys performance or condition.
No significant control failings or weaknesses were identified from the Audit and Risk Committees ongoing risk assessment which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this Report.
A full analysis of the financial risks facing the Company is set out in note 19 on pages 42 to 47.
Annual Report and Accounts 13 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Strategic Report 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt1 10 12 2018 14:04 Page 14 Strategic Review Viability statement The directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a five year period, taking into account the Companys position at 30 September 2018 and the potential impacts of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces for the review period.
This period has been chosen as the board believes that this reflects a suitable time horizon for strategic planning, taking into account the investment policy, liquidity of investments, potential impact of economic cycles, nature of operating costs, dividends and availability of funding.
In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the directors have considered each of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 12 and 13 and in particular the impact of a significant fall in regional equity markets on the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
The directors have also considered the Companys income and expenditure projections and the fact that the Companys investments comprise readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary and on that basis consider that five years is an appropriate time period.
Based on the Companys processes for monitoring operating costs, the boards view that the Manager has the appropriate depth and quality of resource to achieve superior returns in the longer term, the portfolio risk profile, limits imposed on gearing, counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of their assessment.
Going concern Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement set out above, and the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2014, the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 10 December 2018 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 14
