171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt4 10 12 2018 11:41 Page 48 Annual General Meeting Explanation of Special Business The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will shares and will only reissue shares held in treasury at a price be held on Wednesday, 23 January 2019 at 12.00 noon.
The equal to or greater than the Companys net asset value formal Notice of Meeting is set out on page 49. inclusive of current year income plus any applicable costs.
The following information is important and requires your The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in action you should take, you should consult an the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be independent financial adviser, authorised under the advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold so and when it would not result in any dilution of NAV per or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the Company, share.
please forward this document with its accompanying If approved, both of these authorities will expire at the form of proxy at once to the purchaser or transferee, or conclusion of the AGM in 2020 unless renewed, varied or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom revoked earlier.
the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Resolution 14: Authority to make market purchases of the Companys own shares special Resolution 11 increase in aggregate limit of fees resolution payable to Directors ordinary resolution At the AGM held on 30 January 2018, the Company was The Companys articles of association currently limit the fees granted authority to make market purchases of up to payable to Directors to 200,000 in aggregate per annum.
25,118,850 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation or The directors believe that the board should have additional holding in treasury.
No shares have been bought back into flexibility in setting the level of directors remuneration, treasury under this authority and the Company therefore has taking into account their increasing responsibilities.
In remaining authority to purchase up to 25,118,850.
This particular, the board is mindful of the fact that it in order to authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM.
manage succession it may, from time to time, need to temporarily increase the size of the board which would The directors believe it is in the best interests of the Company increase the aggregate total director fees for that time and its shareholders to have a general authority for the period.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution will be proposed Company to buy back its ordinary shares in the market as at the forthcoming AGM to increase the aggregate limit of they keep under review the share price discount to net asset fees payable to Directors to 300,000 per annum.
value and the purchase of ordinary shares.
A special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to give The directors are not recommending an increase in directors the Company authority to make market purchases of up to fees this year, as outlined in the Directors Remuneration 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the Report on page 24, although fees continue to be reviewed Notice of the AGM.
The directors will exercise this authority each year.
The board believes that the proposed increase in only if the directors consider that any purchase would be for the aggregate limit of Directors fees will be sufficient to meet the benefit of the Company and its shareholders, taking into its requirements for the next few years and allow for any account relevant factors and circumstances at the time.
Any potential increase in the number of directors.
The Directors shares so purchased would be cancelled or held in treasury Remuneration Report will continue to be submitted for for potential reissue.
If renewed, the authority to be given at approval by shareholders at each AGM.
the 2019 AGM will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM in 2020 unless renewed, varied or revoked earlier.
Resolution 12 directors authority to allot shares ordinary resolution and resolution 13 power to Recommendation disapply pre-emption rights special resolution The board considers that the resolutions relating to the The directors are seeking authority to allot a limited number above items of special business are in the best interests of of unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the board unanimously them to existing shareholders in accordance with statutory recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the pre-emption procedures.
above resolutions and the other resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM, as they intend to do in respect of Appropriate resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming their own beneficial holdings.
AGM and are set out in full in the Notice of AGM.
An ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,675,707 being 10% of the issued share capital excluding any shares held in treasury as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
A special resolution will also be proposed to give the directors authority to allot securities for cash on a non preemptive basis up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,675,707 being 10% of the Companys issued share capital excluding any shares held in treasury as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
This authority includes shares that the Company sells or transfers that have been held in treasury.
The board has established guidelines for treasury Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 48
