Shareholder information continued Glossary Assets under management AUM Alternative performance measures The aggregate value of assets managed on behalf of clients.
In Wealth Management this includes assets where Schroders provides advisory An alternative performance measure APM is a financial measure services but the investment decisions are made by the client.
AUM of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or also includes assets held in custody where the client independently cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in makes investment decisions, whether it is through direct contact with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Certain of the Schroders or via the Fusion wealth platform.
Groups APMs exclude exceptional items which are defined in note 1 b and presented separately in the Consolidated income For Schroder Adveq, the aggregate value of assets managed is based statement.
The Groups APMs are defined below.
on committed funds by clients.
This is changed to the lower of committed funds and net asset value, typically after seven years from Annualised net new revenue The net operating revenue that would be earned over a one year the initial investment, in line with the fee basis.
timeframe if the net new business was all transacted on the same Assets under management and administration AUMA day and there were no market movements or other changes to The combined value of AUA and AUM.
assets under management or fee rates over that year.
It is Basis point bps calculated as gross new funds from clients multiplied by the One one-hundredth of a percentage point 0.01%.
applicable net operating revenue margin for each flow, less gross funds withdrawn multiplied by the applicable net operating BEAR revenue margin for each flow.
This measure provides additional Banking Executive Accountability Regime.
New regulations in Australia information to better assess the impact of net new business on designed to make senior executives more accountable for the actions the Groups net operating revenue.
and outcomes of their organisation.
Basic or diluted earnings per share before exceptional items Beta Profit after tax but before exceptional items divided by the Market returns.
relevant weighted average number of shares see note 6.
The Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 presentation of earnings per share before exceptional items A standard unit for measuring carbon footprints.
It enables the provides transparency of recurring revenue and expenditure to impact of different greenhouse gas emissions on global warming aid understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
tobe expressed using an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide CO 2 Payout ratio as a reference.
The total dividend per share in respect of the year see note 7 CDP divided by the pre-exceptional basic earnings per share.
Formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Profit before tax and exceptional items Carried interest Profit before tax but excluding exceptional items.
This Carried interest is similar to the performance fees we earn on our presentation provides transparency of recurring revenue and core business, but is part of private asset and alternative fee expenditure to aid understanding of the financial performance of structures.
Client investment performance Ratio of total costs to net income Client investment performance is a measure of how investments are Total Group costs before exceptional items divided by net income performing relative to a benchmark or other comparator.
It is before exceptional items.
A 65% ratio is targeted to ensure costs calculated internally by Schroders to give shareholders and financial are aligned with net income, although we recognise that in analysts general guidance on how our AUM is performing.
The data is weaker markets the ratio may be higher than our long-term aggregated and is intended to provide information for comparison to target.
It is not intended for clients or potential Total compensation ratio clients investing in our products.
All calculations for investment Pre-exceptional compensation costs see note 4 divided by performance are made gross of fees with the exception of those for pre-exceptional net income.
By targeting a total compensation which the stated comparator is a net of fees competitor ranking.
ratio of 45 to 49%, depending upon market conditions, we align When a products investment performance is disclosed in product or the interests of shareholders and employees.
client documentation it is specific to the strategy or product: for Intermediary clients, performance will be shown net of fees at the Active management relevant fund share-class level: for Institutional clients, it will typically The management of investments based on active decision-making be shown gross of fees with a fee schedule for the strategy supplied.
rather than with the objective of replicating the return of an index.
The calculation includes 100% of internally-managed Asset AIFMD Management assets, excluding Liability-Driven Investments LDI The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was strategies, that have a complete track record over the respective implemented in the UK in July 2013 and is a regulatory framework for reporting period.
Assets held in LDI strategies, which currently alternative investment fund managers, including managers of hedge amount to 26.1 billion, are excluded as these are not seeking to funds, private equity firms and investment trusts.
outperform a stated objective but to match the liability profile of pension funds.
Assets managed by third parties are excluded and Alpha primarily comprise the Luxembourg-domiciled GAIA fund range of Excess return over market returns relative to a market benchmark.
3.4 billion and legacy private equity assets of 1.7 billion.
We do not Assets under administration AUA calculate investment performance of hotels managed by Algonquin Assets advised by the Best Practice and Evolution Wealth Independent AUMof1.7 billion.
Financial Adviser IFA networks where Schroders solely provides Performance is calculated relative to the relevant stated comparator administrative support, including the Enable Client Relationship for each strategy as below.
These fall into one of four categories, the System and regulatory compliance services, but where the IFAs are percentages for each of which refer to the three year calculation: independent from the Schroders Group.
For 78% of assets included in the calculation, the comparator is the stated benchmark.
178 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information GAIA If the stated comparator is to competitor rankings, the relative Global Alternative Investor Access.
position of the fund to its peer group on a like-for-like basis is used to calculate performance.
This applies to 5% of assets in the GDPR calculation.
A legal framework that sets Assets for which the stated comparator is an absolute return target guidelines for the collection and procession of personal information are measured against that absolute target.
This applies to 10% of of individuals within the EU.
GHG Protocol Assets with no stated objective are measured against a cash return, Greenhouse gas protocol, a comprehensive global standardised if applicable.
This applies to 7% of assets in the calculation.
frameworks to measure and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
Clients GCC Within our asset management business we work with institutional Group Capital Committee.
clients, including pensions funds, insurance companies and sovereign GMC wealth funds, as well as intermediaries, including financial advisers, Group Management Committee.
private wealth managers, distributors and online platforms.
GOC We also provide a range of wealth management services to private Global Operations Committee.
clients, family offices and charities.
GRC We are increasingly focused on building closer relationships with the Group Risk Committee.
end client, whose money is invested with us, often via an intermediary ICAAP or institution.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
CMA IFRS Competition and Markets Authority.
Compensation cost ILAAP Total cost of employee benefits.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Defined benefit DB pension scheme Institutional sales channel and clients A pension benefit where the employer has an obligation to provide Institutional clients, such as pension funds, insurance companies and participating employees with pension payments that represent a government funds, come to Schroders through their own adviser or specified percentage of their salary for each year of service.
Assignments are typically highly specific and may be Defined contribution DC pension scheme combined with their other investments in a range of asset classes and A pension benefit where the employers contribution to an employees with other managers they employ.
pension is measured as, and limited to, a specified amount, usually a Intermediary sales channel and clients percentage of salary.
The value of the pension pot can go up or down Schroders works with intermediaries such as banks, insurance depending on how the investments perform.
companies, platforms and independent financial advisers.
DEFRA Intermediary assets under management included branded funds and Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Employee benefit trust Investment capital A type of discretionary trust established to hold cash or other assets Investible equity from shareholders held in excess of operating for the benefit of employees, such as to satisfy share awards.
It is managed with the aim of achieving a low volatility EPS return.
It is mainly held in cash, government and governmentEarnings per share.
guaranteed bonds, investment grade corporate bonds and Schroders funds.
Investment capital is also used to help support the organic ESG development of existing and new business strategies and to respond Environmental, social and governance.
to other investment and growth opportunities as they arise, such as EU27 acquisitions that will accelerate the development of the business.
The 27 countries within the European Union involved with negotiating Investment returns with the UK on Brexit.
The increase in AUM attributable to investment performance, market Family offices movements and foreign exchange.
These manage the financial and investment side of ultra high net LGBT worth individuals or families.
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender and other groups of sexual FCA and gender minorities.
Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
Liability-driven investment LDI Fitch Investment Management Quality Rating A form of investing where the main goal is to gain and maintain A forward-looking, relative assessment of an investment managers sufficient assets to meet known liabilities, both current and future.
investment capabilities and the strength of its operational platform.
This form of investment is most prominent for defined benefit Ratings have five key pillars: investment process: investment pension schemes.
resources: risk management: investment performance and the Life Company company, including client servicing.
Ratings are assigned on a five Schroder Pension Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, tiered scale from Excellent to Weak.
Excellent indicates that the which provides investment products through a life assurance investment manager has extremely strong investment capabilities wrapper.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 Shareholder information continued Glossary MiFID II Regulatory surplus capital The second iteration of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
Total equity less the Groups overall regulatory capital requirement MiFID II is an EU directive which standardises regulation for and regulatory deductions, in accordance with the EU Capital investment services throughout the European Economic Area.
Requirements Regulation as set out in the Groups Pillar 3 disclosures.
MRTs Seed and co-investment capital Material risk takers.
Employees deemed to be material risk takers Seed capital comprises initial investment put into a fund by the under one or more of the regulatory regimes that applies to the business to allow it to develop a performance track record before it is Group and its subsidiaries, such as the UCITS Directive or AIFMD.
Co-investment comprises investment made alongside our clients.
Net income A sub-total comprising net operating revenue, net gains on financial SM&CR instruments and other income and share of profit of associates and Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
New FCA regulation which joint ventures.
aims to strengthen market integrity by making senior individuals more accountable for their conduct and competence.
Net new business New funds from clients less funds withdrawn by clients.
This is Total Capital Requirement alsodescribed as net inflows when positive or net outflows when The requirement to hold the sum of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital negative.
New funds and funds withdrawn are calculated as at requirements.
Pillar 2A capital requirements are supplementary 31December 2018 on the basis of actual funding provided requirements for those risk categories not captured by Pillar 1, orwithdrawn.
depending on specific circumstances of a company, as set out bythePRA.
Net operating revenue A sub-total consisting of revenue less cost of sales as defined in note 2 Total dividend per share of the financial statements.
Unless otherwise stated, this is the total dividend in respect of the year, comprised of the interim dividend and the proposed final Net operating revenue margins dividend.
This differs from the IFRS dividend which is comprised of Asset Management and or Wealth Management net operating theprior year final and current year interim dividends declared and revenue divided by the relevant average AUM.
Passive products Total equity Products whose stated objective is to replicate the return of an index.
Total assets less total liabilities.
Pillar 1 UCITS The minimum capital requirements in relation to credit risk, Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities.
operational risk and market risk taken by the Group as principal.
UCITS is a regulatory framework of the European Commission that Pillar 2 creates a harmonised regime throughout Europe for the The requirement for companies to assess the level of additional management and sale of investment funds.
capital held against risks not covered in Pillar 1.
UCITS AIF MRTs Pillar 3 Employees deemed to be material risk takers under the UCITS This complements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with the aim of improving Directive or AIFMD.
market discipline by requiring companies to publish certain details UK Stewardship Code oftheir risks, capital and risk management.
Schroders Pillar 3 A set of principles or guidelines released in 2010 by the Financial disclosures are available at schroders.
Reporting Council directed at institutional investors who hold voting Platforms rights in United Kingdom companies.
Platforms in the UK savings market offer a range of investment UN PRI products such as unit trusts, Individual Saving Accounts ISAs, The United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment unit-linked life and pension bonds and Self-Invested Personal Initiative is an international network of investors working together Pensions SIPPs to facilitate investment in many funds from different toimplement the six Principles for Responsible Investment.
Its goal managers through one portal.
isto understand the implications of sustainability for investors and PRA support signatories to incorporate these issues into their investment Prudential Regulation Authority.
decision making and ownership practices.
PRIIPs Packaged Retail Investment and Insurance-based Products.
PRIIPs make up a broad category of financial assets that are regularly provided to consumers in the EU.
It covers all packaged, publicly marketed financial products that have exposure to underlying assets, Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC provide a return over time and have an element of risk.
Principal shareholder group Pureprint Group is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Four private trustee companies, a number of individuals and a charity Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
which, directly or indirectly, are shareholders in Schroders plc and are parties to the Relationship Agreement.
In aggregate these parties 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
own 47.93% of the ordinary shares of Schroders plc.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, RCA a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well Risk and Control Assessment.
managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests and other controlled sources.
The pulp used in this product is Regulatory capital bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF.
The amount of risk capital set by legislation or local regulators, Designed and produced by Black Sun plc.
whichcompanies must hold against any difficulties such as market orcreditrisks.
180 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 a Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018
