The right proposition to deliver for our shareholders Delivering positive outcomes and a long-term view for our shareholders because the road ahead is more important than the path behind 20 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report A strong financial position Our ownership structure and strong capital base allow us to take along-term perspective.
This supports us in staying focused on our strategy and investing in the opportunities available to us to deliver value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Total equity Regulatory surplus capital 3.6bn 1.2bn 2017: 3.5bn 2017: 1.4bn Lasting client relationships and a focus on product development An in-depth understanding of our clients financial needs, coupled with data-driven market intelligence, helps us build a clear picture of future trends and changing client demands.
Assets under management and administration Seed and co-investment capital 421.4bn 535m 2017: 447.0bn 2017: 392m Diversified by geography, asset class and client type As a global business with people across six continents, we have a clear understanding of what matters most to our clients, wherever they are in the world.
Our business is diversified across Within our asset management Our client base consists of the UK 40%, Asia-Pacific 23%, business, we invest across a range institutional 59%, intermediary Europe, Middle East and Africa of asset classes including equities 30% and wealth management 22% and the Americas 15%.
income 19%, private assets and alternatives 10%.
We focus on delivering growth over the long term, which enables us to generate sustainable shareholder returns.
By aligning our interests with those of our clients, we can continue to grow our business and successfully deliver returns for our shareholders.
How we engage The value we create By delivering value for our clients we are able to We engage with our shareholders in a number of ways growthe business and generate returns for our throughout the financial year.
This includes the AGM, shareholders.
This means that in doing the right thing Annual Report and Accounts, results presentations and for our clients we are also able to deliver value to those a comprehensive investor relations programme.
invested in our business and other stakeholders.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
