Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In addition, each of the Directors considers that this Annual Report Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and regulations.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial theaudited financial information on the website at schroders.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under the Companies Act financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2006, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of Forward-looking statements affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may Group for that period.
contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, performance and position, strategy, results of operations In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: and businesses of the Company and the Group.
Such statements and Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are based on consistently.
current expectations and assumptions but relate to events and Make estimates and judgements that are reasonable and prudent.
depend upon circumstances in the future and you should not place reliance on them.
Without limitation, any statements preceded or State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by followed by or that include the words targets, plans, believes, the EU, subject to any material departure disclosed and explained expects, confident, aims, will have, will be, will ensure, estimates inthe financial statements.
or anticipates or the negative of these terms or other similar terms Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
There are itis inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in anumber of factors that could cause actual results or developments business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions to differ materially from those expressed or implied by  as necessary.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency known to them at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair Directors donot make any undertaking to update or revise any review of the business and a description of the principal risks and forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
Nothing in this Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting Accounts should be construed as a forecast, estimate or projection records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys offuture financial performance.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding theassets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section of this Annual Report and Accounts, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group.
The Directors report contained in this Annual Report and Accounts which comprises the sections described on page 91, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and theposition of the Company and the Group and a description of theprincipal risks and uncertainties that they face.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken asaDirector in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
94 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements Financial statements contents Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement 96 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 96 Consolidated statement of financial position 97 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 98 Consolidated cash flow statement 99 Notes to the accounts 1.
Net gain on financial instruments and other income 105 4.
Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities 119 15.
Share capital and share premium 133 21.
Reconciliation of net cash from operating activities 135 23.
Interests in structured entities 145 28. Business combinations 147 Presentation of the financial statements 149 Schroders plc financial statements Schroders plc Statement of financial position 151 Schroders plc Statement of changes in equity 152 Schroders plc Cash flow statement 153 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts 29.
Subsidiaries and other related undertakings 157 Independent auditors report 168 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95
