| 68 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Investor Information How to invest Identifiers ISIN: GB0007826091 You can buy the Companys shares directly on the SEDOL: 0782609 stockmarket through a stockbroker or a share dealing Ticker: SCIN platform.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser may also be able to help with this.
The Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Monitoring your investment Services PLC, provides a share dealing service which can The Companys share price, together with performance be accessed on its website, www.
co. uk or information can be found on the Companys website, by telephoning 0370 703 0195. www.
co. uk and on a number of financial websites.
Dividends paid The Company publishes a daily NAV, a monthly factsheet, The following dividends have been paid during an Interim Report and an Annual Report.
2017 18: Shareholders who hold share certificates Record Payment Investors who hold share certificates can check their holdings by registering on the registrars website, Dividends Amount XD date date date www.
Third Interim 2018 5.00p 4 October 5 October 2 November Please note that to access this facility, investors will need 2018 2018 2018 to quote the shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate.
Second Interim 2018 5.00p 5 July 6 July 3 August By registering for the Investor Centre facility on 2018 2018 2018 Computershares website, investors can also view details First Interim 2018 5.00p 12 April 13 April 11 May of all their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, 2018 2018 2018 as well as access additional facilities and documentation.
Final 2017 14.50p 11 January 12 January 9 February Please see www.
co. uk for further 2018 2018 2018 information.
Special 2017 5.00p 11 January 12 January 9 February Other shareholders Investors who hold shares through a third party, such as 2018 2018 2018 a broker or share dealing platform, should refer to their provider.
Most brokers and platforms provide online Dividend reinvestment access to their clients.
Shareholders who hold share certificates For shareholders who hold share certificates investors Investor Disclosure Document whose names are on the Companys share register, In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority rules dividends are automatically paid as income.
However, it implementing the EU Alternative Investment Fund is easy to arrange to have these dividends Managers Directive AIFMD, certain information must be reinvested by joining the Companys Dividend made available to investors before they invest.
Details are available from Companys Investor Disclosure Document can be found Computershare Investor Services, the Companys on the Companys website www.
registrar, on 0370 703 0195, or from the shareholder info section on the Companys website, Key Information Document www.
In accordance with the EU Packaged Retail and Other Shareholders Insurance-based Investment Products PRIIP Regulation, If your shares are held elsewhere, you should refer the Companys Key Information Document is available on to your broker or share dealing platform provider for the Companys website.
details of their dividend reinvestment facilities.
Most brokers and platform providers offer a dividend Personal taxation reinvestment service which allows you to have dividend Capital Gains Tax CGT cash automatically reinvested to buy more shares.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the Please note that most of these services charge for each price on that date of 41.472p.
dividend reinvested and you should establish the cost of any such facility with your provider.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
indd 68 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 69 Investor Information continued Shareholders meetings Retail investors advised by IFAs All investors are welcome to attend the Annual General The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its Meeting and other general meetings.
shares can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisors IFAs to retail private investors in accordance Investors who hold share certificates are entitled to attend with the Financial Conduct Authoritys and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
Notices FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream pooled of meetings and proxy cards, which include attendance investment producers.
and voting instructions, are sent to their registered address.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions Investors who hold shares through a third party, such as a which apply to non-mainstream investment products broker or share dealing platform, should contact their because they are shares in a UK listed investment trust.
provider to arrange their voting and attendance.
Alternatively, if they have been provided with a Form of Risk warning Direction, they can indicate their voting, or intention to attend, on the form and return it as directed.
Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and If you would like to attend any meeting as a guest please the income from them can go down as well as up as a email us at info@thescottish.
result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians of get back the amount you invest.
Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ, on The Company has a long-term policy of borrowing Thursday 7 February 2019 at 10.30am.
money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such Electronic voting borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
Shareholders who hold share certificates can submit The Company can buy back and cancel its own shares.
proxy votes electronically by following the instructions on All other things being equal, this would have the effect the proxy card.
Investment in the Company is intended as a long-term Electronic communications investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the Investors who hold share certificates may choose to receive future and the value of any tax advantages will depend the Companys Interim and Annual Reports and other on personal circumstances.
shareholder communications electronically instead Please remember that we are unable to offer individual of by post.
If you require such advice, To register, visit the link in the shareholder information you should consult your professional adviser.
section on the Companys website, S. I. T. Savings Limited is authorised and regulated by www.
co. uk and follow the instructions.
Investors will then be advised by email when an electronic communication is available.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC is a UK public limited company and complies with the requirements of the Other publications UK Listing Authority.
It is not authorised or regulated by If you would like to receive a monthly email which contains the Financial Conduct Authority.
our newsletter, factsheet and other useful insights please register your email address at www.
More ways of how to keep in touch with The Scottish can be found overleaf.
The Common Reporting Standard All new shareholders outside of CREST will be sent a certification form for the collection of information required for compliance with The OECD Common Reporting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information The Common Reporting Standard.
Further information can be found on HMRCs website: www.
indd 69 07 12 2018 14:58 | 70 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Keeping in touch with The Scottish...... newsletter Together with our Annual Report & Accounts you also received The Contrarian, a quarterly newsletter to investors with our latest thinking on a variety of investment related subjects and other key highlights.
If you would like to hear from us more frequently there are a number of ways to stay in touch.... by email Sign-up for our monthly email and receive our factsheet with the latest commentary on markets and trends, our contrarian thoughts and insights on a range of investment subjects directly to your inbox.
co. uk subscribe... on our website Visit www.
co. uk to keep up-to-date on performance and portfolio statistics, browse through our annual and interim reports and access other key shareholder information.
In our blog, you will find thought provoking articles from our investment team, weekly thoughts, commentaries, videos and more.
co. uk blog... on social media Follow us on social media be notified about any new content, highlights from events we are attending, coverage in the press and other activities.
You can find our social profiles using the information below.
Twitter: @ScotInvTrust LinkedIn: The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Y ouTube: The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 70 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 71 Keeping in touch with The Scottish... Financial Calendar 2019 Dividend and interest payments Announcement of results... newsletter Final and special for the financial year NAV Daily to 31 October 2018 15 February 2019 Interim figures June Together with our Annual Report & Accounts you First Interim May 2019 Final figures December also received The Contrarian, a quarterly newsletter Second Interim August 2019 Annual Report & Accounts December to investors with our latest thinking on a variety of Third Interim November 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM 7 February 2019 investment related subjects and other key highlights.
Final February 2020 If you would like to hear from us more frequently Secured bonds 17 April, 17 October there are a number of ways to stay in touch.
Perpetual debenture stock 30 April, 31 October... by email Useful Addresses Sign-up for our monthly email and receive our factsheet with the latest commentary on markets and trends, our contrarian thoughts and insights on a range Registered Office Actuaries of investment subjects directly to your inbox.
6 Albyn Place XPS Pensions Group Edinburgh EH2 4NL 40 Torphichen Street www.
co. uk subscribe Telephone: 0131 225 7781 Edinburgh EH3 8JB Website: www.
co. uk Email: info@thescottish.
co. uk The Association of Investment Companies Company Registration Number: SC001651 The Company is a member of The Association of Legal Entity Identifier: 549300ZL6XSHQ48U8H53 Investment Companies AIC which publishes a number of useful consumer guides and email updates for Company Secretary investors interested in investment trust companies.... on our website Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited 20 Forth Street The AIC Visit www.
co. uk to keep up-to-date on performance and Edinburgh EH1 3LH 9th Floor portfolio statistics, browse through our annual and interim reports 24 Chiswell Street and access other key shareholder information.
Depositary London EC1Y 4YY Northern Trust Global Services SE Telephone: 0207 282 5555 In our blog, you will find thought provoking articles from our 50 Bank Street Website: www.
co. uk investment team, weekly thoughts, commentaries, videos and more.
co. uk blog Shareholders who hold share certificates Custodian For valuations and other details of your investment The Northern Trust Company or to notify a change of address please contact the 50 Bank Street Companys Registrar: Canary Wharf Computershare Investor Services PLC London E14 5NT The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Auditor Bristol BS99 6ZZ... on social media Deloitte LLP Helpline: 0370 703 0195 Saltire Court Website: www.
co. uk Follow us on social media be notified about any new content, highlights 20 Castle Terrace from events we are attending, coverage in the press and other activities.
Edinburgh EH1 2DB You can find our social profiles using the information below.
