| 74 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and ii the higher of the price of the last independent thirty-first Annual General Meeting AGM of The trade and the highest current independent Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Royal bid on the trading venue where the purchase College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, is carried out: Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, on Thursday 7 February 2019 at 10.30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 1.
To receive and consider the Annual Report and 7 May 2020, save that the Company may, prior to Accounts for the year to 31 October 2018. such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares under such authority which will or might 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for be executed wholly or partly after the expiration the year to 31 October 2018. of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
To declare a final dividend of 6.20p per share.
"That the Articles of Association the ""Articles"" 4."
To declare a special dividend of 4.00p per share.
produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of 5.
To re-elect James Will as a Director.
identification be adopted as the new Articles of the Company in the substitution for, and to the 6.
To re-elect Russell Napier as a Director.
exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association with effect from the conclusion of the meeting.
To re-elect Jane Lewis as a Director.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except numbers 11 and 12 which are special resolutions.
To re-elect Mick Brewis as a Director.
To re-elect Karyn Lamont as a Director.
Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited 10.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to Company Secretary authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the Company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the Map showing location of AGM venue meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 11,553,479 Map image required or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of market value of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 74 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 75 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued non-working days before the time of the meeting Notes or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST to attend, speak and vote on his or her behalf.
If a Application Host from which the Companys registrar shareholder wishes to appoint more than one proxy, is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any attaching to a different share or shares held by the change of instructions to proxies appointed through shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the CREST should be communicated to the appointee by Company but must attend the AGM to represent the other means.
Shareholders may not use any 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST electronic address provided either in this notice or sponsors or voting service provider s should note any related documents, including the proxy form, that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not to communicate with the Company for any purpose make available special procedures in CREST for other than those expressly stated.
A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input set out in these notes and the notes to the proxy of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility form.
Proxy forms and the original or duly certified of the CREST member concerned to take or, if copy of the power of attorney or other authority, the CREST member is a CREST personal member, if any, under which it is signed or authenticated, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting must be lodged with the Companys Registrars service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor at Computershare Investor Services PLC, The or voting service provider s take s such action Pavilions, Bridgewater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY or as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is www.
com, not less than 48 transmitted by means of the CREST system by any hours excluding non-working days before the particular time.
In this connection, CREST members meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 48 hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 voting system providers are referred, in particular, hours, excluding non-working days, before the time to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning appointed for the taking of the poll.
Completion practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
of the proxy form will not prevent a member from The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy attending the meeting and voting in person.
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations or proxies through the CREST electronic 2001. proxy appointment service may do so by 6.
The return of a completed proxy form or other using the procedures described in the CREST instrument of proxy will not prevent members Manual and by logging on to the website attending the AGM and voting in person if they wish.
CREST personal members or other CREST-sponsored members 7.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated and those CREST members who have appointed a Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360B of the voting service provider, should refer to their CREST Companies Act 2006, the Company specifies that sponsor or voting service provider who will be able only registered shareholders whose names appear to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
on the Companys Register of Members no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days prior to 4.
For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate meeting shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must or be represented at the meeting in respect of the be properly authenticated in accordance with shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, to the Register of Members after the relevant and must contain the information required for such deadline shall be disregarded in determining instruction, as described in the CREST manual.
the rights of any person to attend and vote at the The message, regardless of whether it constitutes meeting.
the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 8.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted person nominated under S146 of the Companies so as to be received by the Companys registrar Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST ID Person may, under an agreement between him her number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 75 07 12 2018 14:58 | 76 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued have a right to be appointed or to have someone a answering the question would interfere unduly else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General with the preparation for the meeting or involve the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy disclosure of confidential information: appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he b the answer has already been given on a website in she may, under any such agreement, have a right to the form of an answer to a question: or give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or of voting rights.
the good order of the meeting that the question be 9.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation answered.
to the appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above 15.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights or more corporate representatives who may exercise described in those Notes can only be exercised by on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided shareholders of the Company.
that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting 16.
The Directors letters of appointment are available rights in the Company who appoints a person other for inspection at the registered office of the than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure Company during normal business hours on any that both he and such third party comply with weekday.
The register of Directors interests their respective disclosure obligations under the maintained by the Company together with copies Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of Directors appointment letters will be available at 11.
On 6 December 2018 being the last practicable date the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to the prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys commencement of the AGM until the conclusion issued share capital comprised 77,074,578. shares thereof.
No Director has any service contract with the none of which is held in treasury.
the right to one vote at a general meeting of the 17.
A copy of the current Articles of Association the Company.
"Accordingly, as at 6 December 2018, the ""Existing Articles"" of the Company and the proposed total number of voting rights exercisable at the AGM new Articles of the Company the ""Articles"" will be was 77,074,578. available for inspection during normal business hours 12."
Shareholders may require the Company to publish, Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at on its website, without payment, a statement, which the registered office of the Company at 6 Albyn Place, is also passed to the auditor, setting out any matter Edinburgh EH2 4NL and at the offices of Dickson relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, Minto, Broadgate Tower, 20 Primrose Street, London including the auditors report and the conduct of EC2A 2EW from the date of the Annual Report in the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
which this notice is included up until the close of the The Company will be required to do so once it has Annual General Meeting.
Copies will also be available received such requests from either i members on the Company's website at www.
co. uk representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of and at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, the Company or ii at least 100 members who have 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, being the place rights to vote and hold shares in the Company on of the Annual General Meeting, for 15 minutes prior which there has been paid up an average sum per to, and during, the meeting.
Investors whose holdings are in nominee names and made in writing and must state the members full who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact name and address and be sent to the Companys their nominee before 31 January 2019. registered office at 6 Albyn Place, Edinburgh, EH2 4NL.
The Company may not require the members 19.
The final and special dividends, if approved, requesting any such website publication to pay its will be paid on 15 February 2019 to shareholders expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of registered at the close of business on 18 January the Companies Act 2006.
Further information regarding the AGM, including 20.
This report was sent to the address at present the information required by section 311A of registered for communications.
Any change of the Companies Act 2006 is available from address should be notified to the Companys www.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 76 07 12 2018 14:58 Objective of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC To provide investors, over the longer term, with above-average returns through a diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
Our High Conviction, Global Contrarian Investment Approach We are contrarian investors.
We believe markets are driven by cycles of emotion rather than dispassionate calculation.
This creates profitable investment opportunities.
We take a different view from the crowd.
We seek undervalued, unfashionable companies that are ripe for improvement.
We are prepared to be patient.
We back our judgement and run a portfolio of our best ideas, selected on a global basis.
Our portfolio is unlike any benchmark or index and we fully expect to have differentiated performance.
Our approach will not always be in fashion but we believe it delivers above-average returns over the longer term, by which we mean at least five years.
Cover painting: Looming Skies over West Coast Waters by Linda Park 164275 SIT AR Cov18 PRINT.
indd 2 07 12 2018 14:47 ST | THE SCOTTISH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 131 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS THE SCOTTISH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ST 131 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | | 6 ALBYN PLACE EDINBURGH EH2 4NL | T: 0131 225 7781 E: info@thescottish.
co. uk 31 OCTOBER 2018 @ScotInvTrust The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 164275 SIT AR Cov18 PRINT.
