| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 51 Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out Interest and other income from non-equity securities, in paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied including debt securities, are recognised on a time consistently throughout the current and the preceding apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield year, with the exception of those covered in notes e on the securities.
and f. Where the Company elects to receive dividends in the a Basis of accounting form of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in The Financial Statements have been prepared in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 and income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received with the AIC s Statement of Recommended Practice over the amount of the cash is recognised in capital Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies reserves.
and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
They are also prepared on a going concern basis see page 29 under e Expenses the historical cost convention, modified to include the All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
revaluation of investments at fair value.
The functional and presentation currency is pounds sterling, which is Eligible expenses are allocated 65% to capital and 35% the currency of the environment in which the Company to revenue in line with the Directors expectations of the operates.
long-term future returns from the Companys investments.
Expenses not eligible to be charged to b Valuation of investments capital are wholly charged to revenue 2017: all Listed investments and current asset investments are expenses allocated equally between revenue and capital valued at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value reserve after allocating 18% to revenue.
is the closing bid or last traded price according to the recognised convention of the markets on which Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or they are quoted.
Where trading in the securities of disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, an investee company is suspended, the investment or deducted from the sales proceeds, of the investment.
is valued at the Boards estimate of its net realisable value.
f Finance costs Interest payable is charged 65% to capital and 35% to Where appropriate, the Directors have adopted the revenue in line with the Directors expectations of the guidelines issued by the International Private Equity long-term future returns from the Companys and Venture Capital Association for the valuation of investments 2017: one-half to revenue reserve and unlisted investments.
Heritable property is included at one-half to capital reserve.
Depreciation is not charged on heritable property as it is not material.
The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of bonds due 2030 are included in the financing costs of investments, permanent impairments in the value of the issue which are being written off over the life of the investments and unrealised surpluses and deficits on bonds.
the revaluation of investments are taken to capital reserve as explained in note i below.
g Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid Year end exchange rates are used to translate the or recovered.
value of investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences c Valuation of debt which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to The Companys secured bonds and debentures are held pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
at amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of in issue less the unamortised costs of issue.
income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included d Income in the Financial Statements.
Deferred tax assets are Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more account on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax on shares where no ex-dividend date is quoted are assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company brought into account when the Companys right to has no deferred tax asset or liability.
indd 51 07 12 2018 14:58 | 52 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies continued h Foreign currency j Pensions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates are calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial at the date of the transaction.
Employer contributions for the defined denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are contribution scheme are a predetermined percentage reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year of the employees salary.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is Statement of Comprehensive Income.
included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve Further information on the Companys pension scheme or in the revenue account depending on whether the is contained in note 4 to the Financial Statements on gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
pages 54 to 56. i Reserves i Share Premium Account the surplus of net Critical accounting estimates and judgements proceeds received from the issue of new ordinary The preparation of the Financial Statements necessarily shares over the nominal value of such shares is requires the exercise of judgement, both in application credited to this account.
The nominal value of the of accounting policies, which are set out above, and shares issued is recognised in share capital.
This in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation reserve is non-distributable.
These estimates and judgements are ii Capital Redemption Reserve the nominal value of reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually the ordinary shares bought back for cancellation was evaluated based on historical experience and other added to this reserve.
However, actual results may differ from these distributable.
iii Capital Reserve the following are accounted for in The Directors do not believe any accounting this reserve: judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of Financial Statements that have a significant risk of gains and losses on the realisation of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount investments: of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
realised and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature: realised and unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: the funding of share and secured bond buybacks: expenses and interest charged to capital: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension fund surplus or deficit.
iv Revenue Reserve the net profit loss arising in the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income is added to this reserve.
Dividends paid during the year may be deducted from this reserve.
