Shareholder Information Communicating with Shareholders Trust Magazine A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Promoting Scottish Mortgage Suggestions and Questions Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can Scottish Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct be improved are welcome.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client investors.
The Board warmly supports the promotion of the plans Relations Team see contact details below and give them your described on page 70 in order to bring the merits of Scottish suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer any Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
questions that you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on page 70.
Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published twice a year.
It provides an insight to our investment It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well such as large print or audio.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford as containing investment trust news, investment features and Client Relations Team for more information.
articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including Client Relations Team Contact Details Scottish Mortgage.
Trust plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
Telephone: 0800 917 2112 Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
com You can subscribe to Trust magazine or view a digital copy at Website: www.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Scottish Mortgage on the Web Calton Square Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on 1 Greenside Row the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Managers website at Edinburgh EH1 3AN www.
You will find full details of Scottish Mortgage, including recent portfolio information and Scottish Mortgage specific queries performance figures.
Please use the following contact details: Website: www.
com Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
72 Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums seek to offer existing and prospective Scottish Mortgage shareholders the chance to hear presentations from the Managers, James Anderson and Tom Slater.
The most recent of these events was held at Brighton in April.
As there has proven to be a high level of demand for these events from shareholders, we will be continuing to hold these in a variety of locations around the UK.
The next Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum will be held on 21 June 2018 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, London, WC2R 0BL.
At this evening event, James and Tom will be discussing their current investment enthusiasms and thoughts on the most exciting areas with potential for future growth.
After the presentations attendees will have the opportunity to put their questions directly to the speakers.
com to register for this event.
Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums Blue Sky Thinking for Tomorrows World Details for all such Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums will be posted on this website as they become available.
Resolute Optimism We try to listen, to learn from those who are smarter than we are.
Technologies are developing at an increasing rate across a wide range of fields.
Many of these advances are hugely positive and exciting, at the same time as being complex and often interrelated.
As investors in a wide range of companies at the forefront of changing the industries in which they operate, Scottish Mortgage portfolio managers James Anderson and Tom Slater believe their primary task is to listen and then use the insights gained from those responsible for driving these developments.
In order to help their understanding of such shifts, the Managers Why we focus on the upside have sought to expand their information networks well beyond the traditional financial industry voices.
The Resolute Optimism pages at www.
com share some of these thoughts and ideas which inform Scottish Mortgage, as well as their insights on the challenges and delights of long-term investing and capital markets.
Third Party Data Provider Disclaimer No third party data provider Provider makes any warranty, recommendations, forecasts, judgments, or any other express or implied, as to the accuracy, completeness or timeliness conclusions, or any course of action determined, by you or any of the data contained herewith nor as to the results to be obtained third party, whether or not based on the content, information or by recipients of the data.
No Provider shall in any way be liable to materials contained herein.
any recipient of the data for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions FTSE Index Data in the index data included in this document, regardless of cause, FTSE International Limited FTSE FTSE 2018.
FTSE is a or for any damages whether direct or indirect resulting therefrom.
trade mark of the London Stock Exchange Group companies and No Provider has any obligation to update, modify or amend the is used by FTSE International Limited under licence.
All rights in data or to otherwise notify a recipient thereof in the event that any the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings vest in FTSE and or its matter stated herein changes or subsequently becomes licensors.
Neither FTSE nor its licensors accept any liability for any inaccurate.
errors or omissions in the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings or Without limiting the foregoing, no Provider shall have any liability underlying data and no party may rely on any FTSE indices, whatsoever to you, whether in contract including under an ratings and or data underlying data contained in this indemnity, in tort including negligence, under a warranty, under communication.
No further distribution of FTSE Data is permitted statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by without FTSEs express written consent.
FTSE does not promote, you as a result of or in connection with any opinions, sponsor or endorse the content of this communication.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 73
