Shareholder Information Glossary of Terms Total Assets Gearing Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public borrowings.
company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing Net Asset Value on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys Also described as shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value NAV is assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more the value of total assets less liabilities including borrowings.
The because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the NAV per share is calculated by dividing this amount by the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can number of ordinary shares in issue.
therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can adversely impact performance in falling markets.
Net Asset Value Borrowings at Fair Value Gearing represents borrowings at par less cash and cash Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
equivalents including any outstanding trade or foreign exchange The value of the borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on settlements expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a Net Asset Value Borrowings at Par percentage of shareholders funds.
Borrowings are valued at their nominal par value.
The value of the borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on page 64.
Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Net Asset Value Borrowings at Book Shareholders AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Funds Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
The value use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the of the borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on page 64.
Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the Net Liquid Assets gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys Net liquid assets comprise current assets less current liabilities, positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without excluding borrowings.
taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the Discount Premium deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts netting positions are offset against each other.
share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
Active Share The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active Total Return share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair value.
The ongoing charges have been calculated on the basis prescribed by the Association of Investment Companies.
74 Annual Report 2018 Directors Alternative Investment Registrar Fund Managers, Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC Secretaries and FC McBain ACA The Pavilions Registered Office Bridgwater Road Baillie Gifford & Co Limited LJ Dowley FCA Bristol Calton Square Professor JA Kay CBE FBA FRSE BS99 6ZZ 1 Greenside Row Professor PH Maxwell DPhil FRCP FMedSci Tel: 0370 707 1300 Edinburgh Dr P Subacchi EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 www.
com Company Brokers Independent Auditor Depositary Cenkos Securities plc KPMG LLP The Bank of New York Mellon International Limited 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court 1 Canada Square London 20 Castle Terrace London EC2R 7AS Edinburgh E14 5AL EH1 2EG Jefferies Hoare Govett Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ www.
SC007058 ISIN GB00BLDYK618 Sedol BLDYK61 Ticker SMT Legal Entity Identifier: 213800G37DCS3Q9IJM38
