184 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FURTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS APP: Airport Property Partnership, formerly a 50-50 joint venture Passing rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a between SEGRO andAviva Investors, which was dissolved in 2017 property as at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less when SEGRO acquired Avivas 50 per cent interest in the portfolio.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service charge income which is netted off against Completed portfolio: The completed investment properties and the service charge expenses.
Groupsshare of joint ventures completed investment properties.
Includes properties held throughout the period, completed Pre-let: A lease signed with an occupier prior to commencing developments and properties acquired during the period.
Development pipeline: The Groups current programme of REIT: A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real developments authorised or in the course of construction at the Estate Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must Balance Sheet date Current Pipeline, together with potential schemes be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly not yet commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain Future Pipeline.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007.
EPRA: The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body, which has issued Best Practices Recommendations in Rent-free period: An incentive provided usually at commencement of a order to provide consistency and transparency in real estate reporting lease during which a customer pays no rent.
The amount of rent free is across Europe.
the difference between passing rent and headline rent.
Estimated cost to completion: Costs still to be expended on a Rent roll: See Passing Rent.
development orredevelopment to practical completion, including SELP: SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture attributable interest.
between SEGRO and the Public Sector Pension Investment Board Estimated rental value ERV : The estimated annual market rental value PSP Investments established in 2013 to own big box warehouses in oflettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
This willnormally be different from the rent being paid.
SIIC: Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French Gearing: Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity equivalent of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts seeREIT.
excluding intangible assets and deferred tax provisions.
Speculative development: Where a development has commenced prior Gross rental income: Contracted rental income recognised in the toalease agreement being signed in relation to that development.
period in the Income Statement, including surrender premiums.
SPPICAV: Socit fide Placement Prpondrance Immobilire Capital Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental increases Variable is a French equivalent of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Headline rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a Square metres sq m : The area of buildings measurements used in this property as at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less than analysis.
The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is onesquare the ERV ignoring any rent-free period.
Hectares Ha : The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
Takeback: Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards, the standards under Topped up net initial yield: Net initial yield adjusted to include notional which SEGRO reports its financial accounts.
rent in respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free Investment property: Completed land and buildings held for rental period at the valuation date.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best income return and or capital appreciation.
Joint venture: An entity in which the Group holds an interest and Total property return TPR : A measure of the ungeared return for which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners the portfolio and is calculated as the change in capital value, less under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as operating policies essential to the operation, performance and financial a percentage of capital employed over the period concerned, as position of the venture require each partners consent.
calculated by MSCI Real Estate and excluding land.
Loan to value LTV : Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of Total shareholder return TSR : A measure of return based upon total property assets investment, owner occupied, trading properties share price movement over the period and assuming reinvestment and, if appropriate, assets held for sale on the balance sheet.
reported on a look-through basis including joint ventures at share.
Trading property: Property being developed for sale or one which is MSCI: MSCI Real Estate calculates the IPD indices of real estate being held for sale after development is complete.
Yield on cost: The expected gross yield based on the estimated Net initial yield: Passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses current market rental value ERV of the developments when fully such as empty rates, divided by the property valuation plus let, divided by the book value of the developments at the earlier of notional purchasers costs.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best commencement ofthe development or the balance sheet date plus Practices Recommendations.
future development costs and estimated finance costs tocompletion.
Net rental income: Gross rental income less ground rents paid, net Yield on new money: The yield on cost excluding the book value of service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
land if the land is owned by the Group in the reporting period prior to commencement ofthe development.
Net true equivalent yield: The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes that rent is received quarterly in advance.
REGISTERED OFFICE SEGRO PLC CUNARD HOUSE 15 REGENT STREET LONDON SW1Y 4LR REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES REGISTERED NUMBER 167591 GO ONLINE The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Environmental Management To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through System and are both Forest Stewardship the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication Council certified.
CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our printing company.
current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
Designed and produced by www.
com As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer careare also featured on the site, www.
OTHER PUBLICATIONS Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2018 Property Analysis Report at www.
Our CSR policies, reporting guidelines, assurance statementsand further case studies can be found atwww.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performances, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond SEGROs ability to control or estimate precisely and which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO are based upon the knowledge and information available to Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and SEGROs shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, SEGRO does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The information in this Annual Report does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to buy securities in SEGRO plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other investment activities.
