183 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Share history of the Company ShareGift On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was consolidated ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh 1 on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 27 12 pence for every Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in 13ordinary shares of 25 pence held on the 17 August 2007. accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic A special dividend of 53 pence per share was paid in connection to sell on their own.
Shares which have been donated to ShareGift are with the consolidation on 31 August 2007. aggregated and sold when practicable, with the proceeds passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
ShareGift can also help with larger donations On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the basis of of shares.
Further details about ShareGift can be obtained from its 12 new ordinary shares for every existing share held on 17 March website at www.
org or by writing to ShareGift at 17 Carlton 1 2009 at a subscription price of 10 pence per share.
Each 27 12 House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: 44 0 207 930 3737. pence ordinary share in issue was sub-divided and re-classified into one ordinary share of one pence each and one deferred share of Dividends 1 26 12 pence each.
The deferred shares were created for technical A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must distribute to reasons in order to maintain the aggregate nominal value of the shareholders by way of dividend at least 90 per cent of its profits from Companys share capital upon sub-division of its ordinary shares.
its tax-exempt UK property rental business calculated under UK tax The very limited rights attached to the deferred shares rendered principles after the deduction of interest and capital allowances and them effectively valueless and they were cancelled on 8 May 2009. excluding chargeable gains.
Such distributions are referred to as Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
Any further distributions may In relation to the acquisition of Brixton plc, on 24 August 2009, be paid as ordinary dividends, which are derived from profits earned SEGRO plc undertook a share consolidation, open offer and private by its UK, non-REIT taxable business, as well as its overseas operations.
On 31 July 2009, every 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 10 pence each Withholding tax PIDs and, 0.10484 open offer shares of 10 pence each were offered to SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at the basic every shareholder of SEGRO plc who, on 13 July 2009, held 10 tax rate 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take no immediate action ordinary shares of one pence each.
The acquisition of Brixton was unless they qualify for exemption as described below and will receive conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
Brixton shareholders were with each dividend payment a tax deduction certificate stating the offered 0.175 consideration shares of 10 pence each in SEGRO plc amount of tax deducted.
for each Brixton share held.
UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder On 2 September 2016, the Company placed 74,770,950 new able to claim an exemption from withholding tax may be able to ordinary shares at a price of 435 pence by way of an equity placing.
receive a gross PID payment if they have submitted a valid relevant The shares were issued and admitted to the Official List of the Exemption Declaration form, either as a beneficial owner of the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the main market for shares, or as an intermediary if the shares are not registered in the listed securities of the London Stock Exchange plc on 6 September name of the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
Total gross proceeds of approximately 325 million were form is available at www.
com under Investors Shareholder raised from the placing.
A valid declaration form, once submitted, will continue to apply to future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it On 10 March 2017, a Rights Issue was announced on the basis is a shareholders responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances of one new share for every five shares held on 8 March 2017 at change and they are no longer able to claim an exemption from a subscription price of 345 pence per share.
ordinary shares were issued and admitted to the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the main market for Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a full or listed securities of the London Stock Exchange plc on 28 March partial refund of withholding tax either as an individual or as a company 2017.
Total gross proceedings of approximately 573 million were from HMRC, subject to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between raised from the Rights Issue.
the UK and the country in which the shareholder is resident.
Shareholder enquiries Ordinary dividends If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you require Ordinary, non-PID dividends will be treated in exactly the same way by further guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact our shareholders as ordinary dividends paid before the Company became Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West a REIT.
From 6 April 2016 the notional 10 per cent tax credit has been Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone 44 0 371 384 2186.
Alternatively, abolished and replaced with a tax free dividend allowance, which will you can check your shareholding and access dividend information by apply to the ordinary, non-PID dividends received by UK resident registering at www.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries shareholders who are subject to UK income tax.
This allowance does via the website by visiting https: help.
not apply to the PID element of dividends.
Further information is available from HMRC at https: www.
uk government publications Electronic communications .
Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive shareholder communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of the SCRIP Dividend Annual General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive Shareholders approved the re-introduction of a scrip dividend option email notifications of shareholder communications by registering at SCRIP in respect of cash dividends including those treated as www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to Property Income Distributions at the 2018 AGM.
receive dividends directly to your bank account and to submit proxy votes Subject to the Board deciding to offer a SCRIP, the SCRIP runs for for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys communications three years ending on the earlier of 18 April 2021 and the 2021 AGM.
electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
It allows shareholders who elect to receive the SCRIP, to take their final and interim dividends in shares rather than cash.
Details of the SCRIP AGM together with information on how shareholders can elect to receive it The 2019 AGM will be held on 18 April 2019 at RSA House, are available on the Company's website www.
