Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco operates.
All amounts have been rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds, foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements on pages 140 to 233 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: i has power over the investee: ii is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii has the ability to use its power to affect the returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non controlling interests represent the portion of profits or losses and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into account financial forecasts, which indicate sufficient capacity in our financing facilities and associated covenants to support the Group.
In order to satisfy themselves that they have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities and working capital requirements.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 250m revolving credit facility, and 242m of US private placement notes.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group had 492m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 308m.
On 3 December 2018 the Group completed the refinancing of its RCF with a syndicate of banks.
Sercos RCF provides funds for general corporate and working capital purposes, and the ability to issue bonds to support the Groups business needs.
The previous facility of 368m was due to mature in April 2020.
The new facility provides 250m of committed funding with a maturity date of December 2023: the lower amount reflecting the much reduced need for debt in the business.
The terms and conditions of the new facility are substantially unchanged from the prior facility.
| 156 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2020.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 54 to 63 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
Adoption of new and revised standards IFRS9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 replaces IAS39 and introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial instruments and puts in place a new hedge accounting model that is designed to be more closely aligned with how entities undertake risk management activities when hedging financial and non-financial risk exposures.
The impact of IFRS9 on the regular trading activities of the Group is immaterial.
The key areas of focus for the Group under IFRS9 are: External loan receivables, including those from equity accounted entities.
Debt refinancing not accounted for as a significant modification under IAS39.
Expected credit losses being recognised on trade debtors and contract assets recognised under IFRS15.
IFRS9 replaces the incurred loss model in IAS39 with an expected credit loss model.
The new model applies to financial assets that are not measured at FVTPL fair value through profit and loss, including loans, lease and trade receivables, debt securities, contract assets under IFRS15 and specified financial guarantees and loan commitments issued.
It does not apply to equity investments.
Under the expected credit loss model, the Group is required to calculate the allowance for credit losses by considering on a discounted basis the cash shortfalls it would incur in various default scenarios for prescribed future periods and multiplying the shortfalls by the probability of each scenario occurring.
The allowance is the sum of these probability weighted outcomes.
Because every loan and receivable carries with it some risk of default, it is expected that every such asset has a loss attached to it from the moment of its origination.
The financial assets held on the balance sheet have been reviewed in order to determine whether any loss is required to be recorded based on these expected credit losses.
However, given the fact that the Groups customers are governments it is unlikely that there will be a default as a result of credit risk.
In most cases, each amount receivable has specific risk attached to recoverability which is most likely based on the services provided under the terms of the contract and, given the majority of receivables are backed by organisations with a sovereign credit rating, the counterparty credit risk is not considered to be material.
Prior year restatement for the impact of IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018, provides a single, principles-based five step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance for goods, services and construction contracts currently included in IAS11 Construction Contracts and IAS18 Revenue.
Under the transition rules, IFRS15 has been applied retrospectively to the prior period in accordance with IAS8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, subject to the following expedients: contracts completed prior to 1 January 2017 or that begin and end within the same annual reporting period have not been restated: for contracts that have variable consideration and which completed prior to 1 January 2018, the revenues recognised reflected the actual outcome, rather than being estimated and trued up: and the disclosures required for comparative periods in respect of amount of revenue allocated to the remaining performance obligations, and an explanation of when that amount is expected to be recognised, will not be made in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
There was no material impact of applying the practical expedients noted above.
The cumulative effect of initial application of the standard has been applied as an adjustment to brought forward retained earnings as at 1 January 2017.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The following table details the specific areas impacted as a result of the adoption of IFRS15 and cross-referenced below the table are Sercos policies in adopting the requirements of the standard.
The restated balances are as previously included within the Groups Financial Statements for the 6 months to 30 June 2018 with one additional balance sheet reclassification relating to the adoption of IFRS15, which had no net impact on the income statement or balance sheet.
The impact of the additional adjustment on the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2017 was to reduce provisions by 9.7m and to increase deferred income by the same amount with 1.0m being current and the remaining 8.7m being non-current.
A reclassification was also made to the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2016.
This adjustment reduced provisions by 15.7m, increased non-current deferred income by 11.7m and reduced unbilled receivables by 4.0m.
Operating profit Retained before Impact on retained earnings as at 1 January 2017 and the consolidated income statement earnings Revenue exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2017 m m m As previously stated 83.1 2,953.6 49.6 IFRS15 adjustments: i Declining unit prices 14.7 5.4 5.0 ii Upfront fees 2.7 0.9 0.8 iii Transition, transformation and other mobilisation activities 4.3 2.2 1.7 iv Asset maintenance and replacement, including vessel dry docking 11.8 1.3 4.3 v Pass through revenues and procurement arrangements 12.5 vi Consideration payable to a customer 0.5 0.4 vii Percentage of completion accounting 0.3 0.5 0.1 viii OCP charges and releases 8.4 As restated 49.3 2,950.9 40.7 The Groups accounting policy for the items above are covered in the Groups revenue recognition policy below this restatement section.
The reason the adjustments noted above arise is: i Declining unit prices.
Where unit prices have been set to decline over the future periods, revenue recognised in prior years for these contracts has been deferred under IFRS15 in order to recognise revenue consistently in line with output received by the customer.
In some instances upfront fees were recognised as revenue under IAS18 but are deferred under IFRS15 where no separate performance obligation exists relating to these fees.
iii Transition, transformation and other mobilisation activities.
In some instances revenue recognised under IAS18 has been deferred under IFRS15 where no separate performance obligation exists.
iv Asset maintenance and replacement, including vessel dry docking.
Adopting IFRS15 has resulted in the deferral of revenue recognised under IAS18 on certain contracts as a result of changing to the appropriate revenue recognitionmethod.
v Pass through revenues and procurement arrangements.
For certain procurement arrangements the Group does not have control prior to transfer, but does have a level of risk associated with the activity, therefore these arrangements are recognised on a net basis under IFRS15 instead of the gross basis under IAS18 due to the Group acting as agent rather than principal in these transactions.
vi Consideration payable to a customer.
Under IFRS15 all amounts payable to a customer including all payments to the customer and all reductions to amounts paid by the customer are recorded as a reduction in revenue.
In 2017, an element of reductions have been recorded as costs.
vii Percentage of completion accounting.
Changes to the Groups current accounting policy arise when the percentage of completion model under IAS11 is replaced by the output method of accounting.
The output method is used where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits in direct proportion to the deliverable performed rather than the level of expense incurred to date.
viii OCP charges and releases.
Where an adjustment is required by IFRS15 and the relevant contract is loss making, the deferral of revenue from prior years can result in a decrease in the level of OCP needed under IFRS15, as future losses will reduce by the level of deferred revenue.
During the second half of 2017, one contract recorded a release against the OCP balance held under current accounting standards.
As a result of IFRS15, revenues on this contract have been deferred, reducing the opening OCP balance, increasing deferred revenue and therefore the release of the relevant OCP balance is lower under IFRS15.
| 158 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Year ended 31 December Year ended 2017 31 December as previously 2017 stated Adjustment as restated Impact on consolidated income statement m m m Revenue 2,953.6 2.7 2,950.9 Cost of sales 2,704.7 5.9 2,710.6 Gross profit 248.9 8.6 240.3 Administrative expenses General and administrative expenses 222.2 222.2 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.3 0.3 Other exceptional operating items 19.9 19.9 Other expenses amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 4.4 4.4 Total administrative expenses 246.2 246.2 Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 27.3 0.3 27.0 Operating profit 30.0 8.9 21.1 Operating profit before exceptional items 49.6 8.9 40.7 Investment revenue 7.6 0.4 8.0 Finance costs 19.2 19.2 Net finance costs 11.6 0.4 11.2 Other gains 0.7 0.7 Profit before tax 19.1 8.5 10.6 Tax on profit before exceptional items 14.0 0.4 13.6 Exceptional tax 5.0 5.0 Tax charge 19.0 0.4 18.6 Profit loss for the year 0.1 8.1 8.0 Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS 0.02p 0.74p 0.76p Diluted EPS 0.02p 0.74p 0.76p Year ended 31 December Year ended 2017 31 December as previously 2017 stated Adjustment as restated Impact on consolidated statement of other comprehensive income m m m Profit for the year 0.1 8.1 8.0 Other comprehensive income for the year: Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 106.5 106.5 Actuarial loss on reimbursable rights 0.6 0.6 Tax relating to items not reclassified 18.1 18.1 Share of other comprehensive income in joint ventures and associates 0.9 0.9 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 14.6 14.6 Fair value loss on cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Total other comprehensive income for the year 102.9 102.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 102.8 8.1 110.9 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued As at 31 December As at 2017 31 December as previously 2017 stated Adjustment as restated Impact on consolidated balance sheet m m m Non current assets Goodwill 551.3 551.3 Other intangible assets 66.7 66.7 Property, plant and equipment 65.2 3.9 61.3 Interests in joint ventures and associates 14.3 5.4 19.7 Trade and other receivables 57.3 57.3 Derivative financial instruments 3.7 3.7 Deferred tax assets 55.0 4.7 59.7 Retirement benefit assets 41.8 41.8 855.3 6.2 861.5 Current assets Inventories 17.4 17.4 Trade and other receivables 506.5 5.5 512.0 Current tax assets 11.2 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents 112.1 112.1 Derivative financial instruments 10.3 10.3 657.5 5.5 663.0 Total assets 1,512.8 11.7 1,524.5 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 462.9 10.0 472.9 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Current tax liabilities 25.3 25.3 Provisions 148.5 2.2 146.3 Obligations under finance leases 8.5 8.5 Loans 31.8 31.8 678.1 7.8 685.9 Non current liabilities Trade and other payables 28.7 83.3 112.0 Deferred tax liabilities 20.4 20.4 Provisions 211.5 37.5 174.0 Obligations under finance leases 11.7 11.7 Loans 239.7 239.7 Retirement benefit obligations 15.5 15.5 527.5 45.8 573.3 Total liabilities 1,205.6 53.6 1,259.2 Net assets 307.2 41.9 265.3 Equity Share capital 22.0 22.0 Share premium account 327.9 327.9 Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings 83.7 41.9 41.8 Retirement benefit obligations reserve 180.1 180.1 Share based payment reserve 88.3 88.3 Own shares reserve 46.1 46.1 Hedging and translation reserve 10.1 10.1 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 305.9 41.9 264.0 Non controlling interest 1.3 1.3 Total equity 307.2 41.9 265.3 | 160 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Year ended 31 December Year ended 2017 31 December as previously 2017 stated Adjustment as restated Impact on components of the cash flow statement m m m Operating profit for the year 30.0 8.9 21.1 Adjustments for: Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 27.3 0.3 27.0 Share based payment expense 11.4 11.4 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 8.9 8.9 Impairment and write down of intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.3 3.4 20.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.8 25.8 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.3 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Non cash R&D expenditure offset against intangible assets 0.7 0.7 Decrease in provisions 56.0 12.8 43.2 Other non cash movements 0.1 0.1 Total non cash items 13.3 9.7 3.6 Operating cash inflow before movements in working capital 16.7 0.8 17.5 Decrease in inventories 3.7 3.7 Decrease in receivables 12.6 0.4 13.0 Decrease in payables 37.2 5.7 42.9 Movements in working capital 20.9 5.3 26.2 Cash generated by operations 4.2 4.5 8.7 Tax paid 11.4 11.4 Non cash R&D expenditure 0.2 0.2 Net cash outflow from operating activities 15.8 4.5 20.3 New standards and interpretations not applied: IFRS16 Leases IFRS16 Leases effective 1 January 2019, specifies how to recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset is of a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with the IFRS 16 approach to lessor accounting remaining substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
Under the applicable transition rules a lessee shall either apply IFRS 16 with full retrospective effect or alternatively not restate comparative information but recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 16 as an adjustment to opening equity at the date of initial application, subject to the Groups application of the following expedients: No reassessment is required as to whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial application.
No reassessment is required for: leases with a lease term end date within one year of the date of initial application: or leases for low value assets, which the Group considers to be those with an initial cost value less than 5,000 except for circumstances where those assets form part of a bundle of leased assets accounted for as a single lease contract.
The Group has adopted the modified retrospective transition approach and as such the valuation of the right of use asset at 1 January 2019 is calculated as if the lease had always existed and hence the net book value of the asset on 1 January 2019 is based on the assumption of straight line amortisation.
The lease liability at 1 January 2019 is calculated as the present value of future payments in relation to the lease, discounted at the applicable incremental borrowing rate.
Below is set out the expected lease accounting policy under IFRS16 together with the estimated impact of adopting thestandard.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Leases A right of use asset is recognised as an asset of the Group at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease, which is equal to the lease liability on inception.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Leases for assets with an initial cost of less than 5,000 except for circumstances where those assets form part of a bundle of leased assets accounted for as a single lease contract, or with a lease term of less than 12 months, or both, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS16 The estimated impact for the Group of adopting IFRS16 is as follows: As at 1 January 2019 m Retained earnings at 31 December 2018 110.6 Lease liability recognised 118.0 Right of use asset recognised, net of impairments 88.0 Deferred tax asset recognised 5.4 Adjustment to retained earnings due to the implementation of IFRS16 24.6 Retained earnings at 1 January 2019 86.0 The Group will continue to work to design, implement and refine procedures to apply the new requirements of IFRS16 and to finalise accounting policy choices, including in its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
As a result of this ongoing work, it is possible that there may be changes to the impact shown above prior to the 30 June 2019 results being issued.
However, at this time these are not expected to be significant.
In calculating the lease liability to be recognised on transition, the Group used a weighted average incremental borrowing rate on 1 January 2019 of 3.50%.
Applying this weighted average incremental borrowing rate to the operating lease commitments disclosed in note 28 gives a liability of 187.2m.
This differs from the lease liability recognised as a result of transitioning to IFRS16 for the following reasons: As at 1 January 2019 m Operating lease commitments discounted at the weighted average incremental borrowing rate 187.2 Less: leases ending within 12 months of the transition date to IFRS16 covered by the practical expedient 44.8 Less: leases included in the operating lease commitment not meeting the recognition criteria of IFRS16 24.4 Lease liability on transition to IFRS16 118.0 The implementation of IFRS16 Leases has required the Group to make a number of judgements, the certainty of the exercise of termination options and estimates.
The key judgements applied relate to the likelihood of lease extension options being exercised, the certainty of the exercise of termination options and the identification of leases embedded within other contracts.
The key estimates used in assessing the impact of adopting the new standard are the incremental borrowing rates applied in calculating the present value of future lease payments to identify the lease liability at 1January 2019.
In addition to the areas where a financial impact has been identified as a result of adoption of IFRS16 as identified above, there are certain accounting policies which are new or change existing policies applied by the Group and may have an impact on the future financial performance of the Group.
The policies in these areas to be adopted by the Group are set out below: i Lease amendments.
Where changes in a lease occur, this will trigger a reassessment of the lease liability.
Changes in the lease liability will be recognised via an adjustment to the right of use asset.
However, if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, any remaining amount of the remeasurement will be recognised in profit or loss.
Where a lease incentive is received prior to the commencement of a lease, the amount is offset against the right of use asset at inception.
Where a lease includes a period or periods of reduced or free rentals, these are included in the calculation of the present value of the lease liability on inception.
| 162 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements iii Variable lease payments.
Where a contract to lease an asset has a pricing mechanism that allows for changes after the commencement date, other than those that change simply due to the passage of time, it is considered to have variable lease payments.
These payments will depend on an index or rate and are included in the calculated lease liability at the lease commencement date according to the rate or index as at that date.
Where a Group entity leases an asset and this asset is subsequently leased to another entity, this is considered to be a sub-lease if the original head lease remains in place.
In this instance the entity which has entered into the head lease is acting as both a lessee and a lessor simultaneously.
As a result, the head lease is accounted for in accordance with the Groups lease accounting policy.
When acting as a lessor, there is a requirement to determine whether the sub-lease is an operating lease or a finance lease, with the accounting following this determination.
v Separate lease and non-lease components.
Lease contracts can often contain elements related to the use of an asset and elements that are unrelated, for example where a property lease also includes a charge for insurance or maintenance.
The lease component and the associated non-lease component are accounted for as a single lease component.
New standards and interpretations not applied: IFRIC23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments As an interpretation, IFRIC23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement criteria of IAS12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments yet to be accepted by tax authorities.
The interpretation has an effective date of 1 January 2019 and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is estimated using another valuation technique.
There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards.
These are share based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS2 Share Based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS17 Leases, or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS2 Inventories or value in use under IAS36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue recognition: Repeat service based contracts The majority of the Groups contracts are repeat service based contracts where value is transferred to the customer over time as the core services are delivered and therefore in most cases revenue will be recognised on the output basis, with revenue linked to the deliverables provided to the customer.
Where any price step downs are required in a contract accounted for under the output basis and output is not decreasing, revenue will require deferral from initial years to subsequent years in order for revenue to be recognised on a consistent basis.
There are certain contracts where a separate performance obligation has been identified for services where the pattern of delivery differs to the core services and which are capable of being distinct.
In these instances, where the transfer of control is most closely aligned to our efforts in delivering the service, then the input method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognised in direct proportion to costs incurred.
Where deemed appropriate, the Group will utilise the practical expedient within IFRS15, allowing revenue to be recognised at the amount which the Group has the right to invoice, where that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Groups performance completed to date.
Under IFRS15, unless upfront fees received from customers including transition payments can be clearly attributable to a distinct service the customer is obtaining, then such payments do not constitute a separate performance obligation and instead are deferred and spread over the life of the core services.
Any changes to the enforceable rights and obligations with customers and or an update to the transaction price will not be recognised as revenue until there is evidence of customer agreement in line with the Groups policies.
Any variable amounts will only be recognised where it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
Where the Group is required to assess whether it is acting as principal or as an agent in respect of goods or services procured for customers, the Group is acting as principal if it is in control of a good or a service prior to transferring to the customer and an agent where it is arranging for those goods or services to be provided to the customer without obtaining control.
Revenue recognition: Long-term project based contracts The Group has a limited number of project based long-term contracts.
Revenue associated with these contracts is recognised at the point in time when control over the deliverable is passed to the customer or where the Group has a legally enforceable right to remuneration for the work completed to date.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition: Contract modifications When a modification to an existing contract is approved, the Group first assesses whether it adds distinct goods or services to the existing contract that are priced commensurate with the stand-alone selling prices for those goods or services.
If this is the case then the modification is accounted for prospectively as a separate contract.
If the pricing is not commensurate with the stand-alone selling prices for the goods or services and the new goods or services are not distinct from those in the original contract then this is considered to form part of the original contract.
Pricing is updated for the entirety of the revised contract and any historic adjustments recognised as a result are recognised through opening retained earnings.
If the pricing is not commensurate with the stand-alone selling prices for the goods or services and the new goods or services are distinct from those in the original contract then this is considered to represent the termination of the original contract and the creation of a new contract which is accounted for prospectively from the date of modification.
Revenue recognition: Other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
The transaction price allocated to future performance obligations disclosed in the financial statements includes estimated variable income where the contractual agreement requires a stand ready obligation to provide future goods or services and no separate purchase decision is required based on the terms of the existing contract and customary business practices.
Interest income is accrued for on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established.
The Group has no material exposure to returns or refunds.
Contract costs Bid costs are capitalised only when they relate directly to a contract and are incremental to securing the contract.
Bid costs are amortised over the duration of the contract to which they relate in equal annual instalments.
Any costs which would have been incurred whether or not the contract is actually won are not considered to be capitalised bid costs.
Contract costs are charged to the income statement as incurred, including the necessary accrual for costs which have not yet been invoiced, unless the expense relates to a specific time frame covering future periods.
Contract costs can only be capitalised when the expenditure meets all of the following three criteria and are not within the scope of another accounting standard, such as inventories, intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment: The costs relate directly to a contract.
These include: direct labour, being the salaries and wages of employees providing the promised services to the customer: direct materials such as supplies used in providing the promised services to a customer: and other costs that are incurred only because an entity entered into the contract, such as payments to subcontractors.
The costs generate or enhance the resources used in satisfying performance obligations in the future.
For initial contract costs capitalised, such costs only fall into one of the following two categories: the mobilisation of contract staff, being the costs of moving existing contract staff to other Group locations: or directly incremental costs incurred in meeting contractual obligations incurred prior to contract delivery, which are required to ensure a proper handover from the previous contractor.
Redundancy costs are never capitalised.
The costs are expected to be recovered, i. e. the contract is expected to be profitable after amortising the capitalisedcosts.
Operating profit Operating profit is not a measure defined by IFRS and the Group considers this to include the profits and losses from continuing operations prior to corporation tax, interest revenue and finance costs.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
| 164 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate or joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where the Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Determining whether joint control exists requires a level of judgement, based upon specific facts and circumstances which exist at the year end.
Details of the unconsolidated joint ventures are provided in notes 5 and 6.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are also incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Where part of a CGU with goodwill is sold, the attributable amount is calculated based on the future discounted cash flows leaving the Group as a proportion of the total CGU future discounted cash flows.
The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisers and any amount of consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internal forecasts.
Other intangible assets Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date of completion.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets continued Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent the incremental value expected to be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business.
These assets are amortised over the average length of the relatedcontracts.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Group in order to generate future economic value through normal business operations.
The underlying assets are amortised over the period from which the Group expects to benefit, which is typically between three to eight years.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The period of expected benefit, and therefore period of amortisation, is typically between three and eight years.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short leasehold assets The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15% 20% Motor vehicles 10% 50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20% 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Given that there is limited history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the depreciation rates is not considered to be significant.
Asset impairment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets including goodwill at each reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
As the impairment of assets has been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in note 3.
If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there is any impairment loss.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
| 166 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying amount is impaired to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is an indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed because of a change in the estimates used to determine the impairment loss.
If there is such an indication, and the recoverable amount of the impaired asset, or CGU, subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is generally reversed.
Impairment losses and reversals are recognised immediately within administrative expenses within the income statement unless it is considered to be an exceptional item.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense associated with the individuals.
Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlementoccurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive it and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Group, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Calculation of the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in note 3.
Defined benefit obligations arising from contractual obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the estimated amount of scheme deficit that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised within Other Comprehensive Income.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 30.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities continued At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non current asset or a non current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 30.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can beutilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
| 168 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
As an interpretation, IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement criteria of IAS12, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments yet to be accepted by tax authorities.
Share based payment Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of Binomial Lattice, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 35.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost being the same as fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure that amounts recognised represent the recoverable amount.
A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due, which is achieved by creating an allowance for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information available at each reporting date.
Key indicators of impairment include disputes with customers over commercial positions, or where debtors have significant financial difficulties such as historic default of payments or information that suggests bankruptcy or financial reorganisation are a reasonable possibility.
The majority of contracts entered into by the Group are with government organisations and therefore historic levels of default are relatively low and as a result the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be significant.
When a trade receivable is expected to be uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date when settlement is considered to be likely.
Onerous contract provisions OCPs arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the remuneration expected to be received.
Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational allocation of shared costs that can be directly linked to fulfilling contractual obligations which have been systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is used as a proxy to activity.
The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an early exit and the expected net cost to fulfil the Groups unavoidable contract obligations.
Where a customer has an option to extend a contract and it is likely that such an extension will be made, the expected net cost arising during the extension period, is included within the calculation.
However, where a profit can be reasonably expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.
Further details of the judgements can be seen in note 3.
Net investments in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends payable Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Segmental information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Board of Directors as a body.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the CODM.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefitobligations.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As described below, many of these areas of judgement also involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Provisions for onerous contracts Determining the carrying value of onerous contract provisions requires assumptions and complex judgements to be made about the future performance of the Groups contracts.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates made, either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery.
Due to the level of uncertainty and combination of variables associated with those estimates there is a significant risk that there could be material adjustments to the carrying amounts of onerous contract provisions within the next financial year.
| 170 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Major sources of uncertainty which could result in a material adjustment within the next financial year are: The ability of the Company to maintain or improve operational performance to ensure costs or performance related penalties are in line with expected levels.
Volume driven revenue and costs being within the expected ranges.
The outcome of matters dependent on the behaviour of the customer, such as a decision to extend a contract where it has the unilateral right to do so.
The outcome of open claims made by or against a customer regarding contractual performance.
The ability of suppliers to deliver their contractual obligations on time and on budget.
In the current year, an amount of 3.4m was charged to historic provisions, and releases of 16.2m have been made.
No charges have been made to new onerous contract provisions during the current year.
Further details are provided in the Finance Review within the Strategic Report.
All of these revisions have resulted from triggering events in the current year, either through changes in contractual positions or changes in circumstances which could not have been reasonably foreseen at the previous balance sheet date.
To mitigate the level of uncertainty in making these estimates Management regularly compares actual performance of the contracts against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.
A detailed bottom up review of the provisions is performed as part of the Groups formal annual budgeting process.
The future range of possible outcomes in respect of those assumptions and significant judgements made to determine the carrying value of onerous contracts could result in either a material increase or decrease in the value of onerous contract provisions in the next financial year.
The extent to which actual results differ from estimates made at the reporting date depends on the combined outcome and timing of a large number of variables associated with performance across multiple contracts.
The individual provisions are discounted where the impact is assessed to be significant.
Discount rates used are calculated based on the estimated risk free rate of interest for the region in which the provision is located and matched against the ageing profile of the provision.
Rates applied are in the range of 0.72% and 1.24%.
Impairment of assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our business and any significant changes to the markets in which we operate.
We seek to mitigate the risk associated with this judgement by putting in place processes and guidance for the finance community and internal review procedures.
Determining whether assets with impairment indicators require an actual impairment involves an estimation of the expected value in use of the asset or CGU to which the asset relates.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of future cash flows and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, both of which involve considerable judgement.
The future cash flows are derived from approved forecasts, with the key assumptions being revenue growth, margins and cash conversion rates.
Discount rates are calculated with reference to the specific risks associated with the assets and are based on advice provided by external experts.
Our calculation of discount rates are performed based on a risk free rate of interest appropriate to the geographic location of the cash flows related to the asset being tested, which is subsequently adjusted to factor in local market risks and risks specific to Serco and the asset itself.
Discount rates used for internal purposes are post tax rates, however for the purpose of impairment testing in accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets we calculate a pre tax rate based on post tax targets.
A key area of focus in recent years has been in the impairment testing of goodwill as a result of the pressure on the results of the Group.
However, no impairment of goodwill was noted in the year ended 31 December 2018.
Current tax Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgement and estimates in respect of tax audits and also tax exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences that arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Key judgement areas include the correct allocation of profits and losses between the countries in which we operate and the pricing of intercompany services.
Where management conclude that a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered probable based on the current information available.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued These liabilities can be built up over a long period of time but the ultimate resolution of tax exposures usually occurs at a point in time, and given the inherent uncertainties in assessing the outcomes of these exposures, these estimates are prone to change in future periods.
It is not currently possible to estimate the timing of potential cash outflow, but on resolution, to the extent this differs from the liability held, this will be reflected through the tax charge credit for that period.
Each potential liability and contingency is revisited on an annual basis and adjusted to reflect any changes in positions taken by the Company, local tax audits, the expiry of the statute of limitations following the passage of time and any change in the broader taxenvironment.
On the basis of the currently available information, the Group does not anticipate a material change to the estimated liability in the short term.
Retirement benefit obligations Identifying whether the Group has a retirement benefit obligation as a result of contractual arrangements entered into requires a level of judgement, largely driven by the legal position held between the Group, the customer and the relevant pension scheme.
The Groups retirement benefit obligations and other pension scheme arrangements are covered in note 31.
The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, mortality rates, inflation rates and future contribution rates.
In accounting for the defined benefit schemes, the Group has applied the following principles: The asset recognised for the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme is equal to the full surplus that will ultimately be available to the Group as a future refund.
No foreign exchange item is shown in the disclosures as the non UK liabilities are not material.
No pension assets are invested in the Groups own financial instruments or property.
Pension annuity assets are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date based on the share of the defined benefit obligation covered by the insurance contract.
Critical accounting judgements Use of Alternative Performance Measures: Operating profit before exceptional items IAS1 requires material items to be disclosed separately in a way that enables users to assess the quality of a companys profitability.
In practice, these are commonly referred to as exceptional items, but this is not a concept defined by IFRS and therefore there is a level of judgement involved in arriving at an Alternative Performance Measure which excludes such exceptional items.
We consider items which are material and outside of the normal operating practice of the Company to be suitable for separate presentation.
Further details can be seen in note 10.
The segmental analysis of continuing operations in note 4 includes the additional performance measure of Trading Profit on continuing operations which is reconciled to reported operating profit in that note.
The Group uses Trading Profit as an alternative measure to reported operating profit by making several adjustments.
Firstly, Trading Profit excludes exceptional items, being those we consider material and outside of the normal operating practice of the Company to be suitable of separate presentation and detailed explanation.
Secondly, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisitions are excluded, because these charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of assets that, in the case of items such as customer relationships, would not be capitalised in normal operating practice.
The CODM reviews the segmental analysis for continuing operations together with discontinued operations.
| 172 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Investigation by the Serious Fraud Office In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating fully with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation but it is not possible to predict the outcome and timing.
However, disclosed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties in this Report is a description of the range of possible outcomes in the event that the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute the individuals and or the Serco entities involved.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
Recognition has been based on forecast future taxable profits.
Further details on taxes are disclosed in note 16.
Segmental information The Groups operating segments reflecting the information reported to the Board in 2018 under IFRS8 Operating Segments are as set out below.
Reportable segments Operating segments UK & Europe Services for sectors including Citizen Services, Defence, Health, Justice & Immigration and Transport delivered to UK Government, UK devolved authorities and other public sector customers in the UK and Europe: Americas Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Citizen Services delivered to US federal and civilian agencies, selected state and municipal governments and the Canadian Government: AsPac Services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services in the Asia Pacific region including Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong: Middle East Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Health in the Middle East region: and Corporate Central and head office costs.
Each operating segment is focused on a narrow group of customers in a specific geographic region and is run by a local management team which report directly to the CODM on a regular basis.
As a result of this focus, the sectors in each region have similar economic characteristics and are aggregated at the operating segment level in these financial statements.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Information about major customers The Group has four major governmental customers which each represent more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,113.1m 2017: 1,104.3m for the UK Government within the UK & Europe segment, 522.8m 2017: 571.1m for the US Government within the Americas segment, 498.7m 2017: 523.5m for the Australian Government within the AsPac segment and 232.9m 2017: 239.8m for the Government of the United Arab Emirates within the Middle East segment.
The amounts shown for 2017 have been restated to show the impact of applying IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Segmental information continued The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue, results, assets and liabilities by reportable segment: Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Revenue 1,300.7 645.6 548.2 342.3 2,836.8 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 51.6 43.2 40.5 21.5 40.1 116.7 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 0.5 3.2 0.6 4.3 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 51.1 40.0 39.9 21.5 40.1 112.4 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.5 0.5 Other exceptional operating items 11.0 2.8 4.5 13.1 31.4 Operating profit loss 39.6 37.2 35.4 21.5 53.2 80.5 Investment revenue 4.3 Finance costs 18.2 Exceptional finance income 7.5 Profit before tax 74.1 Tax charge 8.8 Tax on exceptional items 2.1 Profit for the year from continuing operations 67.4 Trading profit loss is defined as operating profit loss before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising onacquisition.
Exceptional items incurred by the Corporate segment are not allocated to other segments.
Such items may represent costs that will benefit the widerbusiness.
Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m m Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 28.6 0.2 28.8 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 11.4 3.3 2.5 0.7 1.6 19.5 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 0.7 0.7 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 12.1 3.3 2.5 0.7 1.6 20.2 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.5 3.2 0.6 4.3 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.4 1.5 4.9 0.3 11.5 18.6 Impairment of other intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1.0 4.7 5.5 0.3 11.5 23.0 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures and associates 19.6 0.6 0.4 20.6 Other segment assets 487.6 426.4 222.1 123.4 135.0 1,394.5 Total segment assets 507.2 426.4 222.7 123.8 135.0 1,415.1 Unallocated assets 138.5 Consolidated total assets 1,553.6 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 339.4 130.3 152.1 93.6 142.8 858.2 Unallocated liabilities 308.6 Consolidated total liabilities 1,166.8 The Corporate segment assets and liabilities include balance sheet items which provide benefit to the wider Group, including defined benefit pension schemes and corporate intangible assets.
| 174 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 restated m m m m m m Revenue 1,331.5 689.3 577.5 352.6 2,950.9 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 4.1 39.8 33.7 17.3 41.6 45.1 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 3.0 1.4 4.4 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 4.1 36.8 32.3 17.3 41.6 40.7 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.3 0.3 Other exceptional operating items 11.9 0.3 7.4 0.1 24.2 19.9 Operating profit loss 8.1 36.5 24.9 17.4 65.8 21.1 Investment revenue 8.0 Finance costs 19.2 Other gains 0.7 Profit before tax 10.6 Tax charge 13.6 Tax on exceptional items 5.0 Loss for the year from continuing operations 8.0 Trading profit loss is defined as operating loss profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising onacquisition.
Results and balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 restated m m m m m m Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 26.3 0.8 0.1 27.0 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 12.3 3.2 3.2 0.8 1.4 20.9 Reversal of impairment of plant, property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 12.2 3.2 3.2 0.8 1.4 20.8 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 3.0 1.4 4.4 Exceptional impairment and write down of intangible assets arising on acquisition 6.1 6.1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1.1 1.5 4.8 0.2 13.8 21.4 Exceptional impairment of other intangible assets 2.8 2.8 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1.1 4.5 12.3 0.2 16.6 34.7 Segment assets restated Interests in joint ventures and associates 18.9 0.4 0.4 19.7 Other segment assets 452.4 387.6 225.2 113.7 133.2 1,312.1 Total segment assets 471.3 387.6 225.6 114.1 133.2 1,331.8 Unallocated assets 192.7 Consolidated total assets 1,524.5 Segment liabilities restated Segment liabilities 407.5 124.9 161.3 86.2 142.0 921.9 Unallocated liabilities, including liabilities held for sale 337.3 Consolidated total liabilities 1,259.2 Results and balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Corporate segment assets and liabilities include balance sheet items which provide benefit to the wider Group, including defined benefit pension schemes and corporate intangible assets.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
List of principal undertakings The following are considered to be the principal undertakings of the Group as at the year end: Principal subsidiaries 2018 2017 United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% 100% Australia Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% USA Serco Inc. 100% 100% Principal joint ventures and associates 2018 2017 United Kingdom AWE Management Limited 24.5% 24.5% United Kingdom Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited 50% 50% A full list of subsidiaries and related undertakings is included in the Appendix on pages 228 to 230 which form part of the financial statements.
Joint ventures and associates AWE Management Limited AWEML and Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited MSHCL were the only equity accounted entities which were material to the Group during the year or prior year.
Dividends of 20.0m 2017: 17.1m and 8.7m 2017: 7.3m respectively were received from these companies in the year.
Summarised financial information of AWEML and MSHCL and an aggregation of the other equity accounted entities in which the Group has an interest is as follows: 31 December 2018 Group portion of Group portion of other joint material joint venture AWEML MSHCL ventures and arrangements 100% of results 100% of results associates and associates Total Summarised financial information m m m m m Revenue 1,024.7 160.8 331.5 43.6 375.1 Operating profit before exceptional items 100.4 17.1 33.2 1.4 34.6 Exceptional items 0.6 0.3 0.3 Operating profit 100.4 16.5 32.9 1.4 34.3 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Income tax charge 18.6 3.3 6.2 0.1 6.1 Profit from continuing operations 82.4 13.4 26.9 1.6 28.5 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items 82.4 14.0 27.2 1.6 28.8 Other comprehensive income 4.1 2.0 2.0 Total comprehensive income 82.4 17.5 28.9 1.6 30.5 Non current assets 518.5 8.0 131.0 2.6 133.6 Current assets 210.1 45.7 74.3 15.4 89.7 Current liabilities 190.6 28.0 60.7 12.5 73.2 Non current liabilities 517.6 0.8 127.2 2.3 129.5 Net assets 20.4 24.9 17.4 3.2 20.6 Proportion of Group ownership 24.5% 50.0% Carrying amount of investment 5.0 12.4 17.4 3.2 20.6 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
| 176 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Group portion of Group portion of other joint AWEML MSHCL material joint venture 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results associates and associates Total m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 98.1 34.3 41.2 5.1 46.3 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 9.7 2.0 3.4 0.2 3.6 Non current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 2.3 2.3 Depreciation and amortisation 2.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 Interest income 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 Interest expense Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of MSHCL are for a period which is different from that of the Group, being for the 52 week period ended 5 January 2019 2017: 52 week period ended 6 January 2018.
The 52 week period reflects the joint ventures internal reporting structure and is sufficiently close so as to not require adjustment to match that of the Group.
The cost associated with the Groups share of MSHCLs obligation in respect of the equalisation of guaranteed minimum pension GMP payments has been recorded as exceptional to ensure consistent treatment across all defined benefit pension schemes the Group is liable for.
More information is provided in note 10.
Certain employees of the groups headed by AWEML and MSHCL are members of sponsored defined benefit pension schemes.
Given the significance of the schemes to understanding the position of the entities the following key disclosures aremade: Main assumptions: 2018 AWEML MSHCL Rate of salary increases % 2.2% 3.1% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.2% 2.2% Discount rate % 3.0% 2.9% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 23.0 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 25.6 N A Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 2,030.4 290.3 Fair value of scheme assets 1,512.8 193.3 Net amount recognised 517.6 97.0 Members share of deficit 58.2 Franchise adjustment 38.8 Related asset, right to reimbursement 517.6 Net retirement benefit obligation The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
AWEML is not liable for any deficiency in the defined benefit pension scheme under current contractual arrangements.
The deficit reflected in the financial statements of MSHCL covers only that portion of the deficit that is expected to be funded over the term of the franchise arrangement the entity operates under.
In addition, the defined benefit position reflects an adjustment in respect of funding required to be provided by employees.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 177 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Joint ventures and associates continued 31 December 2017 restated Group portion of Group portion of other joint AWEML MSHCL material joint venture 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results associates and associates Total Summarised financial information m m m m m Revenue 951.8 155.1 310.7 45.7 356.4 Operating profit 90.8 17.2 30.8 3.3 34.1 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Income tax charge credit 18.8 3.9 6.6 0.4 7.0 Profit from continuing operations 72.2 13.1 24.1 2.9 27.0 Other comprehensive income 2.0 1.0 0.1 0.9 Total comprehensive income 72.2 15.1 25.1 2.8 27.9 Non current assets 665.6 8.7 167.5 2.2 169.7 Current assets 197.3 43.5 70.1 17.1 87.2 Current liabilities 179.0 26.1 57.0 14.0 71.0 Non current liabilities 664.3 1.6 163.5 2.7 166.2 Net assets 19.6 24.5 17.1 2.6 19.7 Proportion of Group ownership 24.5% 50.0% Carrying amount of investment 4.8 12.3 17.1 2.6 19.7 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
Group portion of Group portion of other joint AWEML MSHCL material joint venture 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results associates and associates Total m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 77.2 33.6 35.7 5.5 41.2 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 8.3 1.9 3.0 0.5 3.5 Non current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 2.7 2.7 Depreciation and amortisation 2.2 1.1 1.4 2.5 Interest income 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest expense 0.3 0.2 0.2 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
Key disclosures with respect of the defined benefit pension schemes of material joint ventures and associates: Main assumptions: 2017 AWEML MSHCL Rate of salary increases % 2.2% 3.1% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.2% 2.2% Discount rate % 2.6% 2.5% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.9 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 25.2 N A | 178 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements AWEML MSHCL Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 2,233.3 304.4 Fair value of scheme assets 1,569.1 193.9 Net amount recognised 664.2 110.5 Members share of deficit 44.2 Franchise adjustment 66.3 Related asset, right to reimbursement 664.2 Net retirement benefit obligation The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Acquisitions On 26 January 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BTP Systems, LLC BTP.
The acquired business contributed 12m of revenue and 1.9m of operating profit before exceptional items to the Groups results during year to 31December 2018.
Having incorporated the assets, liabilities and operations of BTP into the Group, BTP Systems, LLC was liquidated on 26 January 2018.
BTP provides satellite communications SATCOM, radar modernisation, operations and maintenance and sustainment services that enable customers to extend the lives of existing systems and achieve phased upgrades with new technology to enhance operational capability.
BTP specialises in areas including obsolescence engineering, systems engineering services, test equipment and design, and field engineering services, and maintains a near-field and compact antenna test range at their Ludlow, MA headquarters.
BTPs expertise spans shipboard and submarine SATCOM antenna systems, Military Strategic & Tactical Relay command post antennas and radar antennas.
The Group acquired Carillion plcs facilities management contracts at six major NHS hospital sites over the period from June 2018 to August 2018: Great Western Hospital in Swindon: Darent Valley Hospital in Dartford: James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough: Harplands Hospital in Stoke-on-Trent: The Langlands Unit of Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow: and Addenbrookes Treatment Centre in Cambridge.
The total annual revenue of all six contracts is expected to be around 70m and the estimated operating profit before exceptional items, including an appropriate allocation of charges for shared support services and other incremental overheads, will be approximately 4m, the aggregate consideration payable was 18.1m.
The acquired contracts contributed 30.3m of revenue and an operating loss before exceptional items of 2.1m to the Groups results during year to 31December 2018 due to the transition costs incurred.
Provisional fair value Fair value Carillion Health BTP contracts Total m m m Goodwill 10.0 6.8 16.8 Acquisition related intangible assets 3.1 13.6 16.7 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Inventories 0.3 0.3 Trade and other receivables 1.5 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Trade and other payables 1.2 1.2 Provisions 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liability 2.3 2.3 Acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred 14.4 18.1 32.5 Satisfied by: Cash 14.4 16.1 30.5 Contingent consideration 2.0 2.0 Total consideration 14.4 18.1 32.5 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 179 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued The net cash outflow as a result of acquisitions completed during the year was 32.8m made up of 30.5m consideration paid on acquisitions made during the year, costs related to current year acquisitions of 0.6m, consideration related to historic acquisitions of 2.9m and 1.2m of cash acquired.
Goodwill on the Carillion Health contracts represents the premium associated with taking over contracts considered to have synergies with existing Health related contracts already being operated by the Group, and bring an established workforce able to deliver the services required under the contracts.
The contracts acquired are considered to be accretive to the Groups financial performance.
The contingent consideration payable on the Carillion Health contracts is contingent on the Group receiving certain indemnities in relation to the contracts acquired.
Goodwill on the acquisition of BTP represents the premium associated with enabling the Group to enter into new markets with a developed customer base and a series of established product and service offerings.
These services complement Sercos capabilities in Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Combat Systems, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance C5ISR services.
Combining the skills of Serco and BTP Systems will enable the delivery of expanded C5ISR services supporting naval modernisation and sustainment for ship, shore and hardware integration projects.
Based on estimates made of the full year impact of acquisitions arising during the year, had the acquisitions taken place on 1January 2018 Group revenue and operating profit before exceptional items for the period would have increased by 41.3m and approximately 6.2m respectively, taking total Group revenue to 2,878.1m and total Group operating profit before exceptional items to 118.6m.
The total impact of acquisitions to the Groups cash flow position in the period was as follows: m Net cash outflow on acquisition of BTP 13.2 Consideration paid in respect of Carillion contract acquisition completed including acquisition related costs 16.7 Deferred consideration paid in respect of historic acquisition: Anglia Support Partnership 1.2 Grafton Correctional Centre 1.1 Serco Sodexo Defence Services 0.6 Net cash outflow arising in the year on acquisitions 32.8 8.
Disposals A summary of the disposals taking place in the year ended 31 December 2018 were as follows: Profit loss on disposal Cash flow Year ended 31 December 2018 m m Disposal of the Anglia Support Partnership contract 0.5 0.3 Settlement of consideration for Service Glasgow LLP 1.8 0.5 1.5 In October 2018 the Groups interest in the Anglia Support Partnership contract was disposed of, resulting in a net cash outflow of 0.3m with a loss on disposal of 0.5m.
Further details are provided below.
Anglia Support Partnership contract m Trade and other receivables 0.5 Trade and other payables 0.6 Net assets disposed 0.1 Anglia Support Partnership contract m Consideration Less: Net assets disposed 0.1 Disposal costs 0.4 Income statement impact of disposal 0.5 | 180 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The net cash outflow arising on the disposal of the Anglia Support Partnership contract and the impact on Net Debt is asfollows: Anglia Support Partnership contract m Consideration Less: Disposal costs 0.3 Net cash flow on disposal and movement in Net Debt 0.3 9.
Revenue from contracts with customers Revenue As a result of the adoption of IFRS15 all disclosures contained in this note are new or restated from that previously disclosed in the Groups financial statements.
Information regarding the Groups major customers, and a segmental analysis of revenue is provided in note 4.
An analysis of the Groups revenue from its key market sectors, together with the timing of revenue recognition across the Groups revenue from contracts with customers is as follows: UK&E Americas AsPac Middle East Total Year ended 31 December 2018 m m m m m Key sectors Defence 260.2 338.3 56.2 40.8 695.5 Justice & Immigration 269.8 271.4 541.2 Transport 151.4 90.2 18.3 204.6 464.5 Health 231.8 89.1 28.5 349.4 Citizen Services 387.5 217.1 113.2 68.4 786.2 1,300.7 645.6 548.2 342.3 2,836.8 Timing of revenue recognition Revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods 1.6 3.2 4.8 Revenue recognised at a point in time 38.9 1.8 40.7 Products and services transferred over time 1,260.2 645.6 543.2 342.3 2,791.3 1,300.7 645.6 548.2 342.3 2,836.8 UK&E Americas AsPac Middle East Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Key sectors Defence 291.9 325.7 76.9 41.2 735.7 Justice & Immigration 258.0 303.0 561.0 Transport 153.0 86.5 32.5 204.9 476.9 Health 180.7 91.1 33.7 305.5 Citizen Services 447.9 277.1 74.0 72.8 871.8 1,331.5 689.3 577.5 352.6 2,950.9 Timing of revenue recognition Revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods 0.2 0.2 Revenue recognised at a point in time 45.0 4.8 49.8 Products and services transferred over time 1,286.3 689.3 572.7 352.6 2,900.9 1,331.5 689.3 577.5 352.6 2,950.9 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 181 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Revenue from contracts with customers continued Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations The following table shows the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations.
This represents revenue expected to be recognised in subsequent periods arising on existing contractual arrangements.
The Group has not taken the practical expedient in IFRS15.121 not to disclose information about performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less and therefore no consideration from contracts with customers is excluded from the amounts included below.
Forecast variable revenue is included only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
UK&E Americas AsPac Middle East Total m m m m m Within 1 year 2019 1,138.3 424.8 497.0 241.1 2,301.2 Between 2 5 years 2020 2023 2,962.6 162.9 724.8 144.1 3,994.4 5 years and beyond 2025 3,849.2 0.6 1,727.2 170.2 5,747.2 7,950.1 588.3 2,949.0 555.4 12,042.8 Contract balance sheet items The contract balances arising from contracts with customers are as follows: 2018 2017 Contract assets m m Capitalised bid costs 4.9 6.2 Capitalised mobilisation and phase in costs 17.2 18.9 Accrued income and other unbilled receivables 222.2 214.5 244.3 239.6 These amounts exclude Trade receivables disclosed separately in note 22.
The key judgements relating to contract assets are described in note 22.
2018 2017 Contract liabilities m m Deferred income 160.9 147.6 These amounts exclude Trade payables disclosed separately in note 24.
During the current year and the prior year, there have been no significant changes in contract assets or contract liabilities other than those arising in the normal course of business.
| 182 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 10.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of financial performance that are outside normal operations and are material to the results of the Group either by virtue of size or nature.
As such, the items set out below require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Other exceptional operating items arising on continuing operations 2018 2017 For the year ended 31 December m m Exceptional items arising Exceptional loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.5 0.3 Other exceptional operating items Restructuring costs 32.3 28.6 Increase in onerous lease provision 1.8 Costs associated with UK Government review 0.4 0.4 Release of UK frontline clinical health contract provisions 0.4 Settlement of defined benefit pension obligations 10.3 Reversal of impairment of interest in joint venture and related loan balances 0.8 4.5 Reversal of impairment on loan balances 13.9 Impairment of AsPac customer lists 6.1 Cost of Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation 9.6 Increase in other provisions 2.8 Other exceptional operating items 31.4 19.9 Exceptional operating items 31.9 19.6 Exceptional finance income 7.5 Exceptional tax 2.1 5.0 Total operating and financing exceptional items net of tax 22.3 24.6 Exceptional profit on disposals There were no material disposals of continuing operations in 2018 2017: none.
Other exceptional operating items The annual impairment testing of CGUs in 2018 has identified no impairment of goodwill.
The Group is incurring costs in relation to restructuring programmes resulting from the Strategy Review.
These costs include redundancy payments, provisions including onerous leases, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
Due to the nature and scale of the impact of the transformation phase of the Strategy Review, the incremental costs associated with this programme are considered to be exceptional.
Costs associated with the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review must meet the following criteria: that they are directly linked to the implementation of the Strategy Review: they are incremental costs as a result of the activity: and they are non business as usual costs.
In 2018, a charge of 32.3m 2017: 28.6m arose in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
The Strategy Review is discussed in more detail in the Strategic Report on page 18.
Non-exceptional restructuring charges are incurred by the business as part of normal operational activity, which in the year totalled 6.3m 2017: 11.1m and were included within operating profit before exceptional items.
We expect exceptional restructuring costs of approximately 20.0m will be incurred in 2019, which we expect to be the final year.
There was an exceptional credit totalling 0.4m 2017: charge of 0.4m associated with the UK Government reviews and the programme of Corporate Renewal.
These costs have historically been treated as exceptional and consistent treatment is applied in 2018.
The credit reflects the recovery of costs from the Groups insurance providers.
An exceptional charge of 9.6m 2017: nil has been recorded in the Groups income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018.
This is to recognise the Groups obligations associated with equalising the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP payments between male and female employees for the Groups defined benefit pension schemes following a High Court ruling made in October 2018.
The Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS recorded the largest charge being 9.0m.
Included in the 9.6m charge is 0.3m related to the Groups share of the GMP cost in one of the Groups Joint Ventures.
This has been recorded as exceptional to ensure consistent treatment of all items in 2018 related to the cost of equalising the GMP payments within the Groups pension schemes.
The impact of GMP equalisation is not currently estimated to have a material impact in future years.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 183 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Exceptional items continued An additional charge of 2.8m has been recorded in respect of a legal dispute in the Groups North American Division.
The treatment of this additional amount as exceptional is consistent with the recognition of the original charge associated with the same legal matter.
In 2016, a review of a joint ventures cash flow projections led to the impairment of certain equity interests and associated receivables balances, totalling 13.9m.
The impairment was outside of the normal course of business and of a significant value, and was therefore considered to be an exceptional item.
In the year ended 31 December 2018 payments of 0.8m 2017: 4.5m were received against the impaired loan.
An exceptional profit of 13.9m 2017: nil has been recognised for the settlement of consideration associated with the sale of Serco GmbH in 2012 through the offsetting of outstanding loan balances, the receivable of which had been impaired.
An exceptional loss on disposal of 27.7m was recorded in 2012 in respect of the sale.
An exceptional charge of 10.7m arose in 2016 in respect of the bulk transfer of a number of employees that are being transferred from SPLAS to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme.
This transfer was legally agreed in December 2016 at which point all obligations of SPLAS to pay retirement benefits for these individuals were eliminated and as a result, a settlement charge of 10.7m arose, for which a provision was made.
In 2017 a new agreement was reached with the UK Government to transfer out the scheme members on an individual basis and the 2016 legal and commercial arrangements were cancelled by consent of all parties.
As a result of the changes, the impact of the transfer was treated as an experience gain adjustment through other comprehensive income and the majority of the provision made in 2016 was reversed, resulting in a 10.3m credit to exceptional items in 2017.
A cost of this nature did not reoccur in 2018.
In 2017 there were releases of provisions 0.4m which were previously charged through exceptional items in relation to the exit of the UK frontline clinical health contracts.
As a result of contracts coming to the end of their natural lives and no significant new contracts being awarded by the customer, the remaining customer relationship intangible assets of the DMS Maritime Pty Limited business acquired in 2012 were impaired in 2017, totalling 6.1m.
Exceptional finance income Part of the consideration for the sale of the Groups private sector BPO business in 2015 was a loan note with a face value of 30m accruing compound interest of 7%.
The receivable associated with this loan note was recorded at a fair value of 19.5m.
The discount on the loan note has been unwinding through the Groups net finance cost on an annual basis.
During October 2018, the Intelenet business was sold and therefore repayment of the loan note was triggered resulting in a gain of 7.5m.
As this gain is outside the normal financing arrangements of the Group and significant in size it has been recorded as exceptional investment income.
Exceptional tax Exceptional tax for the year was a tax credit of 2.1m 2017: 5.0m charge which arises on exceptional items within operatingprofit.
No net tax credit arises on the exceptional charge associated with GMP equalisation further detail on this charge is included in the Other exceptional operating items section above.
The credit of 1.6m that arises on the deferred tax movement associated with this charge is netted with an equal and opposite charge that arises on the associated reduction in the deferred tax asset in order to retain the net deferred tax position as supported by future forecast profits.
Remaining exceptional costs excluding the pension charge 14.8m only gave rise to a credit of 2.1m, as the majority of these costs were incurred in the UK where they only impact our unrecognised deferred tax in relation to losses.
| 184 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Research and development costs 0.6 1.7 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 8.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1.5 0.3 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 20.2 20.8 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition 4.3 4.4 Amortisation, write down and impairment of intangible assets other 18.7 21.4 Exceptional net loss gain on disposal of subsidiaries and operations note 8 0.5 0.3 Staff costs note 12 1,453.4 1,525.0 Allowance for doubtful debts charged credited to income statement 1.0 0.7 Net foreign exchange charge 0.4 1.2 Movement on non-designated hedges and reclassified cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Lease payments recognised through operating profit 152.2 99.6 Operating lease income from sub-leases 1.7 2.4 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Amounts payable by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services to the Companys Auditor are shown below.
2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.0 1.0 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 1.2 1.2 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed separately because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 99.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 185 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Staff costs The average number of persons employed by the Company including Executive Directors was: 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December number number UK & Europe 20,307 21,222 Americas 6,091 7,421 AsPac 8,851 8,739 Middle East 4,185 4,428 Unallocated 950 954 40,384 42,764 The average number of persons employed includes all permanent employees and those with fixed term contracts.
It excludes self-employed contractors and other casual workers.
Aggregate remuneration of all employees based on the average number of employees reported above was: 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Wages and salaries 1,251.7 1,326.5 Social security costs 95.3 102.9 Other pension costs note 31 91.7 84.2 1,438.7 1,513.6 Share based payment expense note 35 14.7 11.4 1,453.4 1,525.0 13.
Investment revenue 2017 2018 restated Year ended 31 December m m Interest receivable on other loans and deposits 2.3 2.6 Net interest receivable on retirement benefit obligations note 31 0.8 3.8 Interest arising on customer contracts 0.4 Movement in discount on other debtors 1.2 1.2 4.3 8.0 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Finance costs 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 0.6 1.3 Interest payable on other loans 13.8 14.0 Facility fees and other charges 3.1 3.0 Movement in discount on provisions 0.5 1.3 18.0 19.6 Foreign exchange on financing activities 0.2 0.4 18.2 19.2 | 186 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 15.
Tax 15 a Income tax recognised in the income statement Before Before exceptional exceptional Exceptional items Exceptional Total items items Total 2017 items 2017 2018 2018 2018 restated 2017 restated Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 23.6 1.4 22.2 14.6 2.4 12.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax Current year credit charge 13.8 0.7 14.5 1.7 7.4 9.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1 1.9 1.9 8.8 2.1 6.7 13.6 5.0 18.6 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the consolidated income statement as follows: Before Before exceptional exceptional Exceptional items Exceptional Total items items Total restated items restated 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Profit before tax 98.5 24.4 74.1 30.2 19.6 10.6 Tax calculated at a rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% 18.7 4.6 14.1 5.8 3.8 2.0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.3 5.3 5.9 0.3 6.2 UK unprovided deferred tax 7.5 3.5 4.0 3.0 2.9 0.1 Other unprovided deferred tax 2.5 2.5 2.3 0.1 2.4 Effect of the use of unrecognised tax losses 0.3 0.3 1.2 0.5 1.7 Impact of changes in statutory tax rates on current income tax 1.7 1.7 1.4 2.2 0.8 Change in deferred tax as a result of legislative changes 8.8 8.8 Overseas rate differences 7.3 0.7 6.6 9.2 0.8 8.4 Other non taxable income 2.5 0.4 2.9 0.9 0.5 1.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.0 1.0 2.9 2.9 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax on pensions 10.1 10.1 2.2 18.3 20.5 Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 5.3 0.1 5.2 5.2 5.2 Tax charge 8.8 2.1 6.7 13.6 5.0 18.6 Relates to costs that are not allowable for tax deduction under local tax law Arises due to timing differences between when an amount is recognised in the income statement and when the amount is subject to UK tax.
In the current year, the Group has received tax deductions for amounts which have been charged to the income statement in previous periods in connection with items such as fixed assets.
Additional tax is recognised in relation to brought forward losses as shown in the deferred tax note below.
UK unprovided deferred tax in relation to exceptional items relates to amounts which have been charged to the income statement in the current period for which no tax deduction has yet been taken, for items such as restructuring costs.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The income tax charge for the year is based on the blended UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 19.00% 2017: 19.25%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 187 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Tax continued 15 b Income tax recognised in the SOCI 2018 2017 Year ended 31 December m m Current tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve Deferred tax Relating to cash flow hedges Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 9.2 18.1 9.2 18.1 16.
Deferred tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using local substantively enacted tax rates.
The movement in net deferred tax assets during the year was as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m At 1 January asset 39.3 24.8 Income statement charge credit 14.7 7.2 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income 9.2 18.1 Arising on acquisition 2.3 1.0 Exchange differences 3.0 2.6 At 31 December asset 39.5 39.3 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows: Share based Temporary payment differences and Retirement Other on assets employee benefit Tax temporary intangibles benefits schemes OCPs losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 restated 25.8 12.2 2.5 7.9 18.7 28.8 39.3 Credited charged to income statement note 15a 4.7 1.8 1.7 0.8 1.9 5.4 14.7 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 15b 9.2 9.2 Arising on acquisition 2.3 2.3 Exchange differences 1.2 0.3 0.1 0.3 1.9 3.0 At 31 December 2018 24.6 13.7 9.9 7.4 20.6 32.3 39.5 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Of the amount credited to the income statement, 0.1m 2017: charge of 0.1m has been taken to cost of sales in respect of the R&D Expenditure credit.
Other temporary differences include a deferred tax asset of nil in respect of derivative financial instruments 2017: nil.
| 188 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the previous year was as follows: Share based Temporary payment differences and Retirement Other on assets employee benefit Tax temporary intangibles benefits schemes OCPs losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 restated 36.5 12.0 17.6 17.8 10.3 38.8 24.8 Credited charged to income statement note 15a 6.7 0.3 2.8 9.2 8.4 10.0 7.2 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income note 15b 18.1 18.1 Arising on acquisition 0.1 0.9 1.0 Exchange differences 3.9 0.4 0.2 0.7 2.6 At 31 December 2017 25.8 12.2 2.5 7.9 18.7 28.8 39.3 Results and balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2017 2018 restated m m Deferred tax liabilities 21.4 20.4 Deferred tax assets 60.9 59.7 39.5 39.3 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
As at the balance sheet date, the UK has a potential deferred tax asset of 168.8m 2017: 177.0m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has currently been recognised of 20.3m 2017: 17.4m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining asset net 148.5m based on current forecasts: additional asset recognition is contingent on further improvement in the UK profit forecast.
Measures enacted during 2016 cut the future tax rate from April 2020 from 19% to 17%.
These measures will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December 2018 has been calculated reflecting the reduced rate.
Losses of 0.2m 2017: 0.1m expire within 5 years, losses of 0.1m 2017 0.1m expire within 6-10 years, losses of 0.7m 2017 4.1m expire within 20 years and losses of 1,015.2m 2017 998.4m may be carried forward indefinitely.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 189 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share EPS have been calculated in accordance with IAS33 Earnings per Share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2017 2018 restated Number of shares millions millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,094.4 1,089.7 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options 31.0 30.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 1,125.4 1,120.6 The number of dilutive ordinary shares has been restated to ensure that the calculation is consistent with the method used for the current financial year.
This does not impact the diluted earnings per share for 2017 as the Company was in a loss makingposition.
At 31 December 2018 options over 145,238 2017: 236,616 shares were excluded from the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted earnings per share in accordance with IFRS2 Share Based Payments because their exercise price was above the average share price for the year and they were, therefore, anti-dilutive.
Earnings per share Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount 2017 2017 2018 2018 restated restated Basic EPS m pence m Pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 67.4 6.16 8.3 0.76 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.17 Diluted EPS 67.4 5.99 8.3 0.76 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 67.4 6.16 8.3 0.76 Add back exceptional items 24.4 2.23 19.6 1.80 Add back tax on exceptional items 2.1 0.19 5.0 0.46 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 89.7 8.20 16.3 1.50 Results and balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
| 190 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 18.
Goodwill Accumulated impairment Carrying Cost losses amount m m m At 1 January 2017 926.5 348.6 577.9 Exchange differences 48.5 21.9 26.6 At 1 January 2018 878.0 326.7 551.3 Exchange differences 24.4 12.9 11.5 Acquisitions 16.8 16.8 At 31 December 2018 919.2 339.6 579.6 Movements in the balance since the prior year end can be seen as follows: Goodwill Goodwill Headroom on Headroom on balance Exchange balance impairment impairment 1 January Additions differences Impairment 31 December analysis analysis 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 m m m m m m m UK & Europe 177.5 6.8 184.3 593.6 427.7 Americas 253.0 10.0 15.9 278.9 159.4 151.8 AsPac 110.8 4.9 105.9 307.8 231.6 Middle East 10.0 0.5 10.5 57.9 145.6 551.3 16.8 11.5 579.6 1,118.7 956.7 Included above is the detail of the headroom on the CGUs existing at the year-end which reflects where future discounted cash flows are greater than the underlying assets and includes all relevant cash flows, including where provisions have been made for future costs and losses.
Late in 2017, the Group amalgamated its Central Government and Local and Regional Government divisions into a combined UK & Europe division led by a single management team.
Within the UK & Europe division, there are a number of business units, each individually representing a cash generating unit, three of which have an amount of goodwill allocated to them.
Following the combination of divisions in 2017, the management structure across the UK & Europe division has been aligned to the management structure across other divisions with divisional resources and certain operational decisions being considered on a division-wide basis.
The UK & Europe division now represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and as a result goodwill will be tested for impairment across the group of CGUs that make up the division.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 191 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Goodwill continued Had the movements and headroom for the year ended 31 December 2018 been prepared on a basis consistent with the year ended 31 December 2017, the result would have been: Headroom on Goodwill Goodwill Headroom on impairment balance Exchange balance impairment analysis 1 January Additions differences Impairment 31 December analysis restated 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 m m m m m m m UK & Europe Justice & Immigration 49.6 49.6 188.4 127.4 Health 60.6 6.8 67.4 64.9 19.4 Direct Services & Europe 67.3 67.3 41.6 71.5 Americas 253.0 10.0 15.9 278.9 159.4 151.8 AsPac 110.8 4.9 105.9 307.8 231.6 Middle East 10.0 0.5 10.5 57.9 145.6 551.3 16.8 11.5 579.6 820.0 747.3 Within the Groups restructuring activities late in 2017, the historic Citizen Services business unit was amalgamated with Direct Services, meaning that no separate financial information is available for 2018.
As a result, the headroom on the impairment analysis for 2017 has been restated, increasing by 1.2m, to reflect the value in use calculation of the Citizen Services business unit as at 31 December 2017.
Headroom under the revised approach used in 2018 is greater than that which would have existed under the 2017 approach due to the fact that there are additional business units to which no goodwill was previously allocated which form part of the UK & Europe group of CGUs.
The key assumptions applied in the impairment review are set out below: Terminal Terminal Discount Discount growth growth rate rate rates rates 2018 2017 2018 2017 % % % % UK & Europe 10.0 10.8 2.0 2.0 Americas 10.6 10.5 2.4 2.4 AsPac 10.0 9.7 2.4 2.4 Middle East 11.8 10.8 2.5 2.5 Discount rate Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital have been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
These rates are reviewed annually with external advisers and are adjusted for risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
Short term growth rates The annual impairment test is performed immediately prior to the year end, based initially on five year cash flow forecasts approved by senior management.
Short term revenue growth rates used in each CGU five year plan are based on internal data regarding our current contracted position, the pipeline of opportunities and forecast growth for the relevant market.
Short term profitability and cash conversion is based on our historic experiences and a level of judgement is applied to expected changes in both.
Where businesses have been poor performers in recent history, turnaround has only been assumed where a detailed and achievable plan is in place and all forecasts include cash flows relating to contracts where onerous contract provisions have been made.
Terminal growth rates The calculations include a terminal value based on the projections for the fifth year of the short term plan, with a growth rate assumption applied which extrapolates the business into perpetuity.
The terminal growth rates are based on long term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
These are provided by external sources.
| 192 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption, a 1% movement in discount rates and a 1% movement in terminal growth rates are considered to be reasonably possible.
No impairment results from these changes being made to the key assumptions either individually or in combination.
When reviewing the cash generating units in a manner consistent with 2017, it was noted that a reduction of 6.9m in the terminal year cash flows for the Health CGU would lead to the recoverable amount no longer exceeding the carrying value.
Having reviewed the forecast cash flows associated with the group of CGUs making up UK and Europe the required reduction in terminal year cash flows, which would result in an impairment of goodwill, was considered an unlikely scenario.
Other intangible assets Acquisition related Other Internally generated Customer Licences Software development relationships and franchises and IT expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 65.1 0.2 122.8 56.6 244.7 Arising on acquisition 16.7 16.7 Eliminated on disposal 3.9 7.0 10.9 Additions from internal development 6.5 6.5 Additions from external acquisition 2.4 2.4 Disposals 27.7 5.0 32.7 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 3.4 3.4 Exchange differences 1.5 0.1 1.6 At 31 December 2018 51.7 0.2 123.1 56.7 231.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2018 58.5 0.1 75.8 43.6 178.0 Brought forward reclassification 1.2 1.2 Arising on acquisition Eliminated on disposal 3.9 7.0 10.9 Impairment charge 0.1 0.1 Amortisation charge internal development 10.8 5.6 16.4 Amortisation charge external 4.3 2.2 6.5 Disposals 27.7 3.0 30.7 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment 2.4 2.4 Exchange differences 1.0 0.3 0.1 1.4 At 31 December 2018 32.2 0.1 82.8 49.3 164.4 Net book value At 31 December 2018 19.5 0.1 40.3 7.4 67.3 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 193 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Other intangible assets continued Acquisition related Other Internally generated Customer Licences Software development relationships and franchises and IT expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 67.6 0.3 120.6 55.7 244.2 Arising on acquisition 0.9 0.9 1.8 Eliminated on disposal 1.2 1.2 Additions from internal development 9.9 0.9 10.8 Additions from external acquisition 7.6 7.6 Disposals 0.1 13.4 0.1 13.6 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Research and development expenditure credit 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences 3.4 2.2 0.4 6.0 At 31 December 2017 65.1 0.2 122.8 56.6 244.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 50.4 0.3 71.6 38.3 160.6 Arising on acquisition 0.9 0.9 Eliminated on disposal 1.1 1.1 Impairment charge 6.1 2.8 8.9 Amortisation charge internal development 11.8 5.7 17.5 Amortisation charge external 4.4 3.9 8.3 Disposals 0.1 13.0 0.1 13.2 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Exchange differences 2.4 0.1 1.5 0.3 4.3 At 31 December 2017 58.5 0.1 75.8 43.6 178.0 Net book value At 31 December 2017 6.6 0.1 47.0 13.0 66.7 Included in Software and IT and other internally generated development expenditure is an amount of 3.6m 2017: 6.1m in respect of leased intangibles.
Customer relationships are amortised over the average length of contracts acquired.
The Group is carrying 19.5m 2017:6.6m in relation to Customer relationships.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition consists of amortisation in relation to Customer relationships and Licences and franchises and totals 4.3m 2017: 4.4m.
The net book value of internally generated intangible assets as at 31 December 2018 was approximately 7.4m 2017: 13.0m in development expenditure and 28.0m 2017: 34.3m in software and IT.
| 194 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 20.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold ShortMachinery, motor land and leasehold vehicles, furniture buildings assets and equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2018 restated 4.6 30.3 186.4 221.3 Arising on acquisition 0.1 0.1 0.2 Eliminated on disposal 1.9 1.9 Additions 6.5 23.5 30.0 Reclassification to other intangible assets 3.4 3.4 Disposals 7.2 31.2 38.4 Exchange differences 0.6 0.2 0.8 At 31 December 2018 4.6 30.3 173.7 208.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2018 restated 2.7 23.8 133.5 160.0 Brought forward reclassification 0.3 0.3 Eliminated on disposal 1.9 1.9 Charge for the year impairment 0.7 0.7 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 2.6 16.7 19.5 Reclassification to other intangible assets 2.4 2.4 Disposals 7.0 25.6 32.6 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2018 2.9 19.5 121.4 143.8 Net book value At 31 December 2018 1.7 10.8 52.3 64.8 Freehold ShortMachinery, motor land and leasehold vehicles, furniture buildings assets and equipment Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 restated 4.0 32.4 202.3 238.7 Arising on acquisition 0.4 0.4 Additions 0.5 2.0 15.7 18.2 Reclassification to other intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Disposals 2.5 29.8 32.3 Exchange differences 0.1 1.2 2.2 3.3 At 31 December 2017 4.6 30.3 186.4 221.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 restated 2.5 22.8 146.2 171.5 Arising on acquisition 0.4 0.4 Charge for the year impairment 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 3.2 17.5 20.9 Reclassification to other intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Disposals 1.0 28.9 29.9 Exchange differences 0.8 1.6 2.4 At 31 December 2017 2.7 23.8 133.5 160.0 Net book value At 31 December 2017 restated 1.9 6.5 52.9 61.3 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The carrying amount of the Groups Machinery, motor vehicles, furniture and equipment includes an amount of 23.4m 2017: 23.4m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The carrying amount of the Groups Short-leasehold assets includes an amount of 0.1m 2017: 0.1m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 195 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Service spares 14.9 13.0 Parts awaiting installation 2.7 1.9 Work in progress 5.3 2.5 22.9 17.4 22.
Contract assets, trade and other receivables 2017 2018 restated Contract assets: Current m m Accrued income and other unbilled receivables 222.2 214.5 Capitalised bid and phase in costs 22.1 25.1 244.3 239.6 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Group has capitalised bid costs of 4.9m 2017: 6.2m and phase in costs of 17.2m 2017 restated : 18.9m that are realised as a part of the normal operating cycle of the Group.
These assets represent up-front investment in contracts which are recoverable and expected to provide benefits over the life of those contracts.
Bid costs are capitalised only when they relate directly to a contract and are incremental to securing the contract.
Contract costs can only be capitalised when the expenditure meets all three criteria identified in note 2.
Movements in the period were as follows: 2017 2018 restated Capitalised bid and phase in costs m m At 1 January 25.1 27.0 Additions 3.9 5.0 Amortisation 5.5 6.8 Reclassified to contract asset 1.2 Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 22.1 25.1 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Total trade and other receivables held by the Group at 31 December 2018 amount to 329.8m 2017: 329.7m.
2018 2017 Trade and other receivables: Non current m m Loans receivable note 26 25.7 Other investments 9.9 10.0 Other receivables 20.4 21.6 30.3 57.3 | 196 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 2017 2018 restated Trade and other receivables: Current m m Trade receivables 227.1 188.8 Prepayments 51.2 48.4 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.7 0.6 Security deposits 0.2 0.3 Other receivables 20.3 34.3 299.5 272.4 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Group has a receivables financing facility of 30.0m 2017: 30.0m, which was un-utilised at 31 December 2018 31December 2017: nil utilised.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating segments, although they report to Group on a monthly basis on debtor days, debtor ageing and significant outstanding debts.
The average credit period taken by customers is 29 days 2017: 23 days and no interest is charged on overdue amounts.
Each customer has an external credit score which determines the level of credit provided.
However, the majority of our customers have a sovereign credit rating as a result of being government organisations.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year, 88.7m is due from agencies of the UK Government, the Groups largest customer, 34.8m from the Australian Government, 64.9m from the Government of the United Arab Emirates, and 13.4m from the US Government.
There are no other customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of 2017, 54.1m was due from agencies of the UK Government.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 31 December 2018, a total of 0.8m 2017: 1.6m of trade receivables held by the Group were considered to be impaired.
Impairments to trade receivables are based on specific estimated irrecoverable amounts and provisions on outstanding balances greater than a year old unless there is firm evidence that the balance is recoverable.
The total amount of the provision for the Group was 2.8m as of 31 December 2018 2017: 3.6m.
The Group does not have any impairments associated with expected credit losses.
2018 2017 Ageing of trade receivables m m Neither impaired nor past due 168.2 144.3 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 35.2 29.6 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 9.6 8.2 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 16.1 8.7 Impaired 0.8 1.6 Allowance for doubtful debts 2.8 3.6 227.1 188.8 Of the total overdue trade receivable balance, 50% 2017: 38% relates to the UK, US or Australian governments, and a further 37% 2017: 38% relates to the government of the United Arab Emirates.
The total allowance for doubtful debts is greater than the assets identified as impaired due to provision being made for partial impairment of balances held within one of the ageingcategories.
2018 2017 Movements on the Group allowance for doubtful debts m m At 1 January 3.6 3.6 Net charges and releases to income statement 1.0 0.7 Utilised 0.2 0.5 Exchange differences 0.2 At 31 December 2.8 3.6 Included in the current other receivables balance is a further 5.6m 2017: 10.2m due from agencies of the UK Government.
An amount of nil 2017: 5.5m is held within current other receivables in relation to insurance claims where it is probable that the Group will receive future payments.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 197 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Cash and cash equivalents Other Other Total Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies 2017 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m m m Customer advance payments 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.2 Other cash and short-term deposits 38.7 22.8 61.5 79.6 32.3 111.9 Total cash and cash equivalents 38.7 23.8 62.5 79.6 32.5 112.1 Customer advance payments totalling 1.0m 2017: 0.2m are encumbered cash balances.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Contract liabilities, trade and other payables 2017 2018 restated Contract liabilities: Current m m Deferred income 74.3 64.3 Contract liabilities: Non current Deferred income 86.6 83.3 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Total trade and other payables held by the Group at 31 December 2018 amount to 443.0m 2017: 437.3m.
2018 2017 Trade and other payables: Current m m Trade payables 67.4 78.4 Other payables 89.6 71.1 Accruals 262.7 259.1 419.7 408.6 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 30 days 2017: 33 days.
2018 2017 Trade and other payables: Non current m m Other payables 23.3 28.7 | 198 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 25.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2018 2018 2017 2017 Amounts payable under finance leases m m m m Within one year 6.1 5.7 9.1 8.5 Between one and five years 8.6 8.2 11.0 10.4 After five years 0.9 0.9 1.4 1.3 15.6 14.8 21.5 20.2 Less: future finance charges 0.8 1.3 Present value of lease obligations 14.8 14.8 20.2 20.2 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 5.7 5.7 8.5 8.5 Amount due for settlement after one year 9.1 9.1 11.7 11.7 Finance lease obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
Loans Total Total 2018 2017 m m Loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 21.9 31.8 Between one and two years 6.4 19.7 Between two and five years 159.5 105.0 After five years 51.7 89.3 239.5 245.8 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 21.9 31.8 Less: amounts shown in receivables note 22 25.7 Amount due for settlement after one year 217.6 239.7 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Other loans 239.5 229.9 271.5 263.1 Loan receivables 25.7 25.7 239.5 229.9 245.8 237.4 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a market rate appropriate to the loan.
All loans are held at amortisedcost.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 199 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Loans continued Analysis of Net Debt The analysis below provides a reconciliation between the opening and closing positions in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities together with movements in cash loan receivables and derivatives relating to the items included in Net Debt.
There were no changes in fair value noted in either the current or prior year.
At 31 At 1 January Cash Exchange Non cash December 2018 flow Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2018 m m m m m m m Loans payable 271.5 33.3 12.9 11.6 239.5 Obligations under finance leases 20.2 8.7 0.1 3.4 14.8 Liabilities arising from financing activities 291.7 42.0 12.8 8.2 254.3 Cash and cash equivalents 112.1 50.4 1.2 0.4 62.5 Loan receivables 25.7 37.4 11.7 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 12.8 9.0 3.8 Net Debt 141.1 45.8 1.2 22.2 19.9 188.0 At 31 At 1 January Cash Exchange Non cash December 2017 flow Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2017 m m m m m m m Loans payable 299.9 3.8 25.4 0.8 271.5 Obligations under finance leases 28.2 12.6 0.1 4.7 20.2 Liabilities arising from financing activities 328.1 16.4 25.5 5.5 291.7 Cash and cash equivalents 177.8 57.3 1.5 7.1 2.8 112.1 Loan receivables 22.9 0.6 3.4 25.7 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 18.1 5.3 12.8 Net Debt 109.3 41.5 1.5 7.1 17.4 2.1 141.1 Acquisitions represent the net cash debt acquired on acquisition.
Provisions Employee related Property Contract Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2018 restated 55.7 13.6 148.1 102.9 320.3 Brought forward reclassification 1.5 1.5 Arising on acquisition 0.7 0.7 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary Charged to income statement exceptional 2.8 1.8 2.8 7.4 Charged to income statement other 14.3 2.1 3.4 3.3 23.1 Released to income statement exceptional 4.7 0.9 5.6 Released to income statement other 0.7 2.1 16.2 12.0 31.0 Utilised during the year 7.9 2.9 51.8 13.2 75.8 Reclassification 0.5 0.5 Unwinding of discount 0.5 0.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 1.3 0.8 At 31 December 2018 59.5 12.4 82.1 85.4 239.4 Analysed as: Current 19.9 4.3 54.6 41.3 120.1 Non current 39.6 8.1 27.5 44.1 119.3 59.5 12.4 82.1 85.4 239.4 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
| 200 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Contract provisions relate to onerous contracts which will be utilised over the life of each individual contract.
The present value of the estimated future cash outflow required to settle the contract obligations as they fall due over the respective contracts has been used in determining the provision.
In2018, additional charges have been made in respect of future losses on a number of onerous contracts totalling 3.4m.
Thisincrease related to revisions to existing OCPs of 82.1m at 31 December 2018.
No new OCPs were created during the year.
A full analysis is performed at least annually of the future profitability of all contracts with marginal performances and of the balance sheet items directly linked to these contracts.
Due to the significant size of the balance and the inherent level of uncertainty over the amount and timing of the related cash flows upon which onerous contract provisions are based, if the expected operational performance varies from the best estimates made at the year end, a material change in estimate may be required.
The key drivers behind operational performance is the level of activity required to be serviced, which is often directed by the actions of the UK Government, and the efficiency of Group employees and resources.
Employee related provisions are for long-term service awards and terminal gratuity liabilities which have been accrued and are based on contractual entitlement, together with an estimate of the probabilities that employees will stay until retirement and receive all relevant amounts.
There are also amounts included in relation to restructuring.
The provisions will be utilised over various periods driven by local legal or regulatory requirements, the timing of which is not certain.
Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either underutilised or vacant and where the unavoidable costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benefits expected to be generated in the future.
The provision has been calculated based on the discounted cash outflow required to settle the lease obligations as they fall due, with the longest running lease ending in April 2039.
Other provisions are held for indemnities given on disposed businesses, legal and other costs that the Group expects to incur over an extended period, in respect of past events.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome and will be utilised with reference to the specific facts and circumstances.
The timing of utilisation is dependant on future events which could occur within the next twelve months over a longer period with the majority expected to be settled by 31 December 2021.
Capital and other commitments 2018 2017 Capital expenditure contracted but not provided m m Property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.9 Intangible assets 0.9 0.2 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m Within one year 73.2 63.1 Between one and five years 95.1 122.0 After five years 22.1 33.6 190.4 218.7 Subsequent to issuing the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017, a decision was made following a review of the terms and conditions associated with the commitments of the Groups contracts, to reclassify certain costs from operating lease charges to service costs and to remove costs beyond the expected termination date.
There was no impact on classification in the income statement, however the reclassification meant that future costs relating to the service were no longer classified as operating lease commitments.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 201 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Contingent liabilities The Company has guaranteed overdrafts, finance leases, and bonding facilities of its joint ventures and associates up to a maximum value of 4.3m 2017: 4.3m.
The actual commitment outstanding at 31 December 2018 was 4.3m 2017: 4.3m.
The Company and its subsidiaries have provided certain guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance and other bonds, issued by its banks on its behalf in the ordinary course of business.
The total commitment outstanding as at 31 December 2018 was 225.3m 2017: 227.1m.
As we have disclosed before, we are under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic MonitoringContract.
The Group is also aware of other claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group although the timing of settlement of these claims remains uncertain.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
Financial risk management 30 a Fair value of financial instruments i Hierarchy of fair value The classification of the fair value measurement falls into three levels, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are as follows: Level 1: Inputs derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: I nputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Based on the above, the derivative financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2018 and the comparison fair values for loans and finance leases, are all considered to fall into Level 2.
Market prices are sourced from Bloomberg and third party valuations.
The valuation models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
| 202 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Group held the following financial instruments which fall within the scope of IFRS9 Financial Instruments at 31 December: Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Fair value Amortised Fair value Amortised Level 2 Level 2 cost Level 2 Level 2 cost 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2018 m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets current Cash and bank balances 62.5 62.5 112.1 112.1 Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.4 4.5 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 5.1 5.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.1 Loans and receivables Trade receivables note 22 227.1 227.1 188.8 188.8 Security deposits note 22 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates note 22 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 Financial assets non current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 3.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.1 Loans and receivables Loan receivables note 22 25.7 25.7 Other investments note 22 9.9 9.9 10.0 10.0 Financial liabilities current Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.7 1.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade payables note 24 67.4 67.4 78.4 78.4 Loans note 26 21.9 21.6 31.8 31.8 Obligations under finance leases note 25 5.7 5.7 8.5 8.5 Financial liabilities non current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Loans note 26 217.6 208.3 239.7 231.3 Obligations under finance leases note 25 9.1 9.1 11.7 11.7 The Directors estimate that the carrying amounts of cash, trade receivables and trade payables approximate to their fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair values of loans and finance lease obligations are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the liability.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach applying discount factors derived from observable market data to actual and estimated future cash flows.
Credit risk is considered in the calculation of these fairvalues.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 203 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial risk management continued ii Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments results in a net asset of 4.1m 2017: net assets of 12.8m comprising non current assets of 0.1m 2017: 3.7m, current assets of 7.7m 2017: 10.3m, current liabilities of 3.7m 2017: 1.1m and non current liabilities of nil 2017: 0.1m.
Movement in fair Movement in fair value of value of derivatives derivatives not designated in designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 31 December 1 January 2018 relationships relationships 2018 m m m m Currency swaps 9.3 4.2 5.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.5 4.5 1.0 12.8 8.7 4.1 Movement in fair Movement in fair value of value of derivatives derivatives not designated in designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 31 December 1 January 2017 relationships relationships 2017 m m m m Currency swaps 14.2 4.9 9.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.3 0.3 0.5 3.5 18.5 5.2 0.5 12.8 The fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss is 3.7m 2017: 1.1m and relates to derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships.
The fair value of the derivatives and their credit risk adjusted fair value are not materially different, and are approximately equal to the amount contractually payable at maturity due to the short tenor of the instruments.
30 b Financial risk The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The Board delegates authority to the executive team to manage financial risks.
The Groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly defined guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed, specify the objectives in managing these risks, delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
| 204 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 30 c Liquidity risk i Credit facilities The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
As at 31 December, the Groups committed bank credit facilities and corresponding borrowings were as follows: Utilised for Total facility Amount Drawn bonding facility available 2018 2018 2018 2018 Currency m m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility Sterling 250.0 250.0 Utilised for bonding Total facility facility available Amount Drawn 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m Currency m Syndicated revolving credit facility Sterling 480.0 480.0 On 3 December 2018 the Group entered into a new 250m revolving credit facility with a maturity date of December 2023.
In addition to the banking facility, the Group has outstanding US private placements of 242.2m 2017: 260.7m which will be repaid as bullet repayments between 2019 and 2024.
In addition to the bank and private placement facilities the Group has a 30.0m receivables financing facility 2017: 30.0m of which nil 2017: nil was drawn at year end.
ii Maturity of financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities will be settled on both a net and a gross basis over the remaining period between the balance sheet date and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
On demand or Between one and Between two and After within one year two years five years five years Total At 31 December 2018 m m m m m Trade payables note 24 67.4 67.4 Obligations under finance leases note 25 5.7 2.9 5.3 0.9 14.8 Loans note 26 21.9 6.4 162.1 51.8 242.2 Future loan interest 12.6 11.6 20.5 1.3 46.0 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 467.5 467.5 Inflow 471.8 471.8 103.3 20.9 187.9 54.0 366.1 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
On demand or Between one and Between two and After within one year two years five years five years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Trade payables note 24 78.4 78.4 Obligations under finance leases note 25 8.5 5.6 4.8 1.3 20.2 Loans note 26 31.8 20.7 131.0 89.4 272.9 Future loan interest 12.3 22.4 20.6 1.2 56.5 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 897.8 22.1 919.9 Inflow 907.1 26.0 933.1 121.7 44.8 156.4 91.9 414.8 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
Gross cash flows in the table above relating to forward foreign exchange contracts total 448.6m inflow and 449.8m outflow on demand or within one year and nil inflow and nil outflow between one and two years 2017: 875.5m inflow and 871.9m outflow on demand or within one year and 4.7m inflow and 4.4m outflow between one and two years.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 205 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial risk management continued 30 d Foreign exchange risk i Transactional It is the Groups policy to hedge material transactional exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2018, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions.
ii Translational Where possible the Group will raise external funding to match the currency profile of its foreign operations, in order to mitigate translation exposure.
If matched funding is not possible, currency derivatives may be used to protect against movements in foreign exchange.
iii Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either of fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Details of the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IFRS9 can be seen in note 2.
At 31 December 2018, the Group held cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges against $28.5m of the US Dollar private placements.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US Dollars are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in Sterling.
The profile of these cross currency swaps held by the Group in the current and prior year is as follows: 2018 Receivable 2017 Receivable US Dollar interest Payable Sterling US Dollar interest Payable Sterling Notional amount rate interest rate Notional amount rate interest rate Maturity US Dollar m % % US Dollar m % % October 2019 28.5 3.8 4.1 28.5 3.8 4.1 The Group also held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
These derivatives are hedging highly probable forecast foreign currency trade payments in the UK business.
The net notional amounts are summarised by currency below: 2018 2017 m m Sterling 8.8 9.4 US Dollar 1.7 0.6 Indian Rupee 7.7 9.2 All derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are highly effective and as at 31 December 2018 a net fair value loss of 0.1m 2017: 0.7m has been deferred in the hedging reserve.
During the course of the year to 31 December 2018, 0.6m 2017:0.1m of fair value gains were transferred to the hedging reserve and 0.1m 2017: 0.2m reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
The Group has entered into a net investment hedge.
This uses a portion of the USD denominated loans payable as a hedging instrument against movements in the value of the assets and liabilities of Serco North America Holdings, Inc. All loans payable are recorded at amortised cost, and movements in value due to foreign exchange in the portion designated as hedging instruments are taken to reserves.
The value of loans used in the hedging relationship at 31 December 2018 was 194.3m 2017: 151.8m.
| 206 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements iv Currency sensitivity The Groups currency exposures in respect of monetary items at 31 December 2018 that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from movement in US Dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The impact of a 10% movement is summarised below: Pre-tax profits Equity gain Pre-tax profits Equity gain gain loss loss gain loss loss 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m US Dollar 0.1 0.1 Euro 0.1 Indian Rupee 0.8 1.0 0.1 0.9 1.1 30 e Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to minimise the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings to provide an appropriate level of certainty to cost of funds.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises principally on changes to US Dollar and Sterling interest rates.
i Interest rate management An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: Weighted Weighted average average Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Financial assets m m % m m % Cash and cash equivalents 62.5 112.1 Other loan receivables 25.7 7.0 112.1 25.7 Weighted Weighted average average Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate Floating rate Fixed rate interest rate 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Financial liabilities m m % m m % US Dollar loans 242.2 5.2 260.7 5.2 Other loans 12.2 242.2 12.2 260.7 Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated through the issuance of fixed rate debt and the use of interest rate derivatives.
Excluded from the above analysis is 14.8m 2017: 20.2m of amounts payable under finance leases, which are subject to fixed rates of interest.
ii Interest rate sensitivity The effect of a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR rates on the net financial liability position at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in a decrease in pre-tax profit for the year to 31 December 2018 of 0.2m 2017: increase of 1.0m.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 207 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Financial risk management continued 30 f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, contract assets and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principal exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups contract asset and trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are Government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed credit worthiness of a customer, Government or non-government, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Group has not recorded any impairments related to contract assets or trade and other receivables relating to credit risk during the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: none.
The Groups treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre-approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
The Groups policy is to provide guarantees for joint ventures and associates only to the relevant proportion of support provided by the partners.
At 31 December 2018, the Company has issued guarantees in respect of certain joint ventures and associates as per note 29.
30 g Capital risk The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversification of committed funding and debt maturity profile.
The Group plans to maintain sufficient funds and distributable reserves to allow payments of projected dividends toshareholders.
The following table summarises the capital of the Group: 2017 2018 restated m m Cash and cash equivalents 62.5 112.1 Loans 242.2 272.9 Obligations under finance leases 14.8 20.2 Equity 386.8 265.3 Capital 581.3 446.3 Balances for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
| 208 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 31.
Retirement benefit schemes 31 a Defined benefit schemes i Characteristics and risks The Group contributes to defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2019 are 4.9m 2018: 7.1m.
Among our non-contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was undertaken as at 5 April 2015 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 4.0m for funding purposes.
Pension obligations are valued separately for accounting and funding purposes and there is often a material difference between these valuations.
As at 31 December 2018 the estimated actuarial deficit of SPLAS was 27.8m 2017: 33.7m based on the actuarial assessment on the funding basis whereas the accounting valuation resulted in an asset of 85.8m.
The primary reason a difference arises is that pension scheme accounting requires the valuation to be performed on the basis of a best estimate whereas the funding valuation used by the trustees makes more prudent assumptions.
A revised schedule of contributions for SPLAS was agreed during 2017, with employer contributions of 29.3% of pensionable salaries to be made up to 31 October 2018, dropping to 28.3% from 1 November 2018 to 31 December 2022.
Additional shortfall contributions made up of four payments of 0.5m payable at the end of each April through to 2022 were also agreed.
In addition to this agreement a decision was reached between the Group and the SPLAS trustees to make a one-off shortfall contribution of 4.0m during the year, with this payment being made in December 2018.
It is anticipated that a revised Schedule of Contributions will be signed before 5 July 2019 following the finalisation of the 2018 SPLAS actuarial valuation.
The assets of funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered schemes.
The trustees of each pension scheme are required by law to act in the interest of the scheme and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension schemes are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method for accounting purposes.
This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions including: discount rates to determine the present value of benefits: projected rates of salary growth: and life expectancy of pension plan members.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Pension assets and liabilities in the different defined benefit schemes are not offset.
The schemes typically expose the Group to risks that impact the financial performance and position of the Group and may affect the amount and timing of future cash flows.
The key risks are set out below: Investment risk.
The schemes hold assets with which to discharge the future liabilities of these schemes.
Any decline in the value of these investments directly impacts on the ability of the scheme to meet its commitments and could require the Group to fund this shortfall in future years.
As a result of the SPLASs investment strategy, which aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities, 47% of the schemes assets are annuity policies, 46% are Liability Driven Investments LDIs and the remainder is split between equities, bonds and cash or cash equivalents.
The annuity policies result in an insurer funding the future benefit payments to the relevant members and therefore eliminate the risk of changes in the future value of the benefits to the scheme.
The main asset classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with inflation and interest swap overlays and are therefore linked to the key drivers of the schemes liabilities.
The value of these investments vary in line with gilt yields, which have increased from 2.53% p. a. to 2.86% p. a. during 2018 resulting in a decrease in the value of these assets.
SPLAS previously identified an investment strategy consisting of Multi-Asset Absolute Return MAAR, Buy and Maintain credit B&M and LDI.
This ensures that the scheme remains protected against changes to interest rates and long term inflation expectations, with the funding level therefore being relatively stable.
The present value of the defined benefit schemes liabilities are calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields and therefore a decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the schemes liabilities.
This will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the schemes debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit schemes liabilities are calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of the schemes participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the schemes participants will increase the schemes liabilities.
The present value of the defined benefit schemes liabilities are calculated by reference to the future salaries of the schemes participants, as such, an increase in the salary of the schemes participants will increase the schemes liabilities.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 209 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The defined benefit schemes are grouped together as follows: Contract specific.
These are pre-funded defined benefit schemes.
The Group has obligations to contribute variable amounts to the pension schemes over the terms of the related contracts as defined by the contract and scheme rules.
Atrebid, any deficit or surplus would be expected to transfer to the next contractor.
At the start of these relevant contracts the Group recognised the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of scheme assets with a corresponding amount recognised as an intangible asset.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of the pension obligations have been recognised in the SOCI.
The intangible assets are amortised over the initial term of the contracts with none remaining at the current or prior year end.
Where the relevant scheme has a deficit which is not required to be fully funded by the Group an adjustment is made to limit the amount recognised in the Groups balance sheet by way of a franchise adjustment.
Under contractual arrangements the Group sponsors a section of an industry wide defined benefit scheme, the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, paying contributions in accordance with a Schedule of Contributions.
There is no residual liability to fund a deficit at the end of the franchise period and any costs are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
The Group also makes contributions under Admitted Body status to a number of sections of the Local Government Pension Scheme for the period to the end of the relevant customer contracts.
The Group will only participate in the Local Government Pension Schemes for a finite period up to the end of the contracts.
The Group is required to pay regular contributions as decided by the respective Scheme Actuary and as detailed in each schemes Schedule of Contributions.
In addition, the Group may be required to pay some or all of any deficit as determined by the respective Scheme Actuary that is remaining at the end of the contract.
In respect of this, the Group recognises a sufficient level of provision in these financial statements based on the IAS19 valuation at the reporting date and contractual obligations.
These do not relate to any specific contract and consist of two pre-funded defined benefit schemes and an unfunded defined benefit scheme.
Any liabilities arising are recognised in full and the liabilities in relation to unfunded scheme amount to 0.4m 2017: 0.4m.
The unfunded scheme is the only non UK scheme in which the Group participates.
The funding policy for the pre-funded schemes is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis.
One of these schemes is SPLAS and the other is a non contract specific section of the RPS.
ii Events in the year During the year, the Group made two one-off contributions into the SPLAS scheme.
In April 2018 a payment of 1.2m was made and this was followed by a payment for 4.0m in December 2018.
Also during the year, following a ruling in the High Court, the Group has recognised a past service cost for the impact of Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation.
The total amount recognised by the Group is 9.6m and this has been treated as an exceptional item in the Income Statement.
iii Values recognised in total comprehensive income in the year The amounts recognised in the financial statements for the year are analysed as follows: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2018 2018 2018 Recognised in the income statement m m m Current service cost employer 1.1 4.6 5.7 Past service cost 9.3 9.3 Curtailment gain recognised Administrative expenses and taxes 3.9 3.9 Recognised in arriving at operating profit after exceptionals 1.1 17.8 18.9 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 33.3 33.7 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 0.4 32.6 33.0 Finance income 0.1 0.7 0.8 | 210 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2018 2018 2018 Included within the SOCI m m m Actual return on scheme assets 0.5 40.7 40.2 Less: interest income on scheme assets 0.4 33.4 33.8 0.9 7.3 6.4 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.7 74.0 75.7 Effect of experience adjustments 30.0 30.0 Remeasurements 0.8 51.3 52.1 Change in franchise adjustment Change in members share 0.3 0.1 0.2 Actuarial profit loss on reimbursable rights 0.3 0.1 0.2 Total pension gain recognised in the SOCI 0.5 51.4 51.9 Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2017 2017 2017 Recognised in the income statement m m m Current service cost employer 1.0 7.6 8.6 Past service cost 0.3 0.3 Curtailment loss recognised 2.0 2.0 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.3 5.3 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 1.0 11.2 12.2 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 41.4 41.8 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 0.5 37.6 38.1 Finance income 3.8 3.8 Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2017 2017 2017 Included within the SOCI m m m Actual return on scheme assets 11.0 50.7 39.7 Less: interest income on scheme assets 0.4 41.4 41.8 10.6 92.1 81.5 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 10.3 21.3 31.6 Effect of experience adjustments 0.8 4.8 5.6 Remeasurements 1.1 107.6 106.5 Change in franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Change in members share 0.4 0.4 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 0.6 0.6 Total pension gain recognised in the SOCI 0.5 107.6 107.1 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 211 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement benefit schemes continued iv Balance sheet values The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2018 2018 2018 Scheme assets at fair value m m m Equities 9.7 39.9 49.6 Bonds except LDIs 3.8 93.4 97.2 LDIs 580.7 580.7 Property 1.2 1.2 Cash and other 2.9 8.7 11.6 Private debt mandates 11.4 11.4 Annuity policies 600.2 600.2 Fair value of scheme assets 17.6 1,334.3 1,351.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 23.8 1,263.2 1,287.0 Net amount recognised 6.2 71.1 64.9 Franchise adjustment 3.7 3.7 Members share of deficit 2.3 2.3 Net retirement benefit asset 0.2 71.1 70.9 Net pension liability 0.2 14.7 14.9 Net pension asset 85.8 85.8 Net retirement benefit asset 0.2 71.1 70.9 Deferred tax liabilities 9.9 9.9 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 0.2 61.2 61.0 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Contract Non contract specific specific Total 2017 2017 2017 Scheme assets at fair value m m m Equities 9.9 46.3 56.2 Bonds except LDIs 2.9 20.8 23.7 LDIs 709.8 709.8 Gilts 0.2 0.2 Property 1.6 1.6 Cash and other 2.8 3.2 6.0 Annuity policies 587.5 587.5 Fair value of scheme assets 17.4 1,367.6 1,385.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 23.4 1,341.3 1,364.7 Net amount recognised 6.0 26.3 20.3 Franchise adjustment 3.6 3.6 Members share of deficit 2.4 2.4 Net retirement benefit asset 26.3 26.3 Net pension liability 15.5 15.5 Net pension asset 41.8 41.8 Net retirement benefit asset 26.3 26.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.5 2.5 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 23.8 23.8 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
The SPLAS Trust Deed gives the Group an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets, assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as economic benefits are available to the Group either in the form of future refunds or, for plans still open to benefit accrual, in the form of possible reductions in future contributions.
| 212 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements As required by IAS19, the Group has considered the extent to which the pension plan assets should be classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy of IFRS13.
Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
Annuity policies, private debt mandates and property assets can be classified as Level 3 instruments, and LDIs are classified as Level 2.
Contract Non contract specific specific Total Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities m m m At 1 January 2017 12.0 1,418.0 1,430.0 Current service cost employer 1.0 7.6 8.6 Current service cost employee 0.4 0.4 Past service costs 0.3 0.3 Scheme participants contributions 0.1 0.5 0.6 Interest cost employer 0.5 37.6 38.1 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.2 77.6 77.8 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 10.3 21.3 31.6 Effect of experience adjustments 0.8 4.8 5.6 Plan curtailments 2.0 2.0 Settlement payments from plan assets 58.6 58.6 At 1 January 2018 23.4 1,341.3 1,364.7 Current service cost employer 1.1 4.6 5.7 Current service cost employee 0.5 0.5 Past service costs 9.3 9.3 Scheme participants contributions 0.1 0.2 0.3 Interest cost employer 0.4 32.6 33.0 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.1 80.7 80.8 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1.7 74.0 75.7 Effect of experience adjustments 30.0 30.0 At 31 December 2018 23.8 1,263.3 1,287.1 Contract Non contract specific specific Total Changes in the fair value of scheme assets m m m At 1 January 2017 5.8 1,550.7 1,556.5 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 41.4 41.8 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.3 5.3 Employer contributions 0.5 8.7 9.2 Contributions by employees 0.2 0.4 0.6 Benefits paid 0.2 77.6 77.8 Return on scheme assets less interest income 10.6 92.1 81.5 Settlement payments from plan assets 58.6 58.6 At 1 January 2018 17.4 1,367.6 1,385.0 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 33.3 33.7 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses and taxes 3.8 3.8 Employer contributions 0.5 10.2 10.7 Contributions by employees 0.2 0.3 0.5 Benefits paid 0.1 80.7 80.8 Return on scheme assets less interest income 0.9 7.4 6.5 At 31 December 2018 17.6 1,334.3 1,351.9 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 213 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Retirement benefit schemes continued Total Changes in the franchise adjustment m At 1 January 2017 3.7 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 Taken to SOCI 0.2 At 1 January 2018 3.6 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 At 31 December 2018 3.7 v Actuarial assumptions: SPLAS The assumptions set out below are for SPLAS, which reflects 92% of total liabilities and 94% of total assets of the defined benefit pension scheme in which the Group participates.
The significant actuarial assumptions with regards to the determination of the defined benefit obligation are set out below.
The average duration of the benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16.1 years 2017: 17.9 years.
2018 2017 Main assumptions % % Rate of salary increases 2.80 2.70 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.20 CPI and 3.00 RPI 2.30 CPI and 3.00 RPI Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI 2.30 CPI and 3.00 RPI Inflation assumption 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI 2.20 CPI and 3.20 RPI Discount rate 2.90 2.50 2018 2017 Post retirement mortality years years Current pensioners at 65 male 22.6 22.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 25.1 25.1 Future pensioners at 65 male 24.4 24.3 Future pensioners at 65 female 27.0 26.9 Sensitivity analysis is provided below, based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other assumptions are held constant.
The sensitivities have been derived in the same manner as the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2018 where the defined benefit obligation is estimated using the Projected Unit Credit method.
Under this method each participants benefits are attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the schemes benefit allocation formula.
Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service.
The defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2018 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date.
The sensitivities are calculated by changing each assumption in turn following the methodology above with all other things held constant.
The change in the defined benefit obligation from updating the single assumption represents the impact of that assumption on the calculation of the defined benefit obligation.
2018 2017 Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation m m Discount rate 0.5% increase 102.8 107.9 Discount rate 0.5% decrease 112.2 122.0 Inflation 0.5% increase 66.9 83.4 Inflation 0.5% decrease 64.7 78.0 Rate of salary increase 0.5% increase 2.4 3.6 Rate of salary increase 0.5% decrease 2.3 3.5 Mortality one year age rating 39.9 41.6 Management acknowledges that the method used of presuming that all other assumptions remaining constant has inherent limitation given that it is more likely for a combination of changes, but highlights the value of each individual risk and is therefore a suitable basis for providing this analysis.
| 214 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Assumptions in respect of the expected return on scheme assets are required when calculating the franchise adjustment for the contract-specific plans.
These assumptions are based on market expectations of returns over the life of the related obligation.
Due consideration has been given to current market conditions as at 31 December 2018 in respect to inflation, interest, bond yields and equity performance when selecting the expected return on assets assumptions.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates is derived from their market value.
The yield on equity investments contains an additional premium an equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional anticipated risks of holding this type of investment, when compared to bond yields.
The Group applies an equity risk premium of 4.6% 2017: 4.6%.
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns for the principal asset categories held by the scheme.
31 b Defined contribution schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 73.6m 2017: 75.0m into UK and other defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.
Serco accounts for certain pre-funded defined benefit schemes relating to contracts as defined contribution schemes because the contributions are fixed until the end of the current concession and at rebid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet.
Share capital Number Number 2018 2018 2017 2017 Issued and fully paid m millions m millions 1,098,564,237 2017: 1,098,564,237 ordinary shares of 2p each at 1 January 22.0 1,098.6 22.0 1,098.6 Issued on the exercise of share options 1,098,564,237 2017: 1,098,564,237 ordinary shares of 2p each at 31 December 22.0 1,098.6 22.0 1,098.6 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share premium account 2018 2017 m m At 1 January and 31 December 327.9 327.9 34.
Reserves 34 a Retirement benefit obligations reserve The retirement benefit obligations reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of annual actuarial valuations for defined benefit retirement schemes, the fair value adjustments on reimbursable rights and the related movements in deferred tax balances.
34 b Share based payment reserve The share based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share based payment transactions and any gain or loss on the exercise of share options satisfied by own shares.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 215 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Reserves continued 34 c Own shares reserve The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Serco Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Serco Group plc Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT to satisfy options under the Groups share options schemes.
Themarket value of shares held by the ESOT as at 31 December 2018 was 3.4m 2017: 8.6m.
34 d Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve represents foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and movements relating to cash flow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total m m m At 1 January 2017 0.5 25.1 24.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.2 14.3 14.5 At 1 January 2018 0.7 10.8 10.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.6 5.3 4.7 At 31 December 2018 0.1 5.5 5.4 35.
Share based payment expense The Group recognised the following expenses related to equity-settled share based payment transactions: 2018 2017 m m Performance Share Plan 13.1 9.9 Deferred Bonus Plan 1.6 1.5 14.7 11.4 Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
The options are granted at market value and awards made to eligible employees are based on between 50% and 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options may be forfeited if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the movement in all EOP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average options price options exercise price 2018 2018 2017 2017 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 93 4.16 93 4.16 Lapsed during the year 38 0.28 Outstanding at 31 December 55 3.88 93 4.16 Of these options, 54,545 2017: 92,540 were exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted average exercise price of 3.88 2017: 4.16.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a weighted average contractual life of 0.37 years 2017: 0.87 years.
The exercise price for options outstanding at 31 December 2018 was 3.88 2017: ranged from 3.88 to 4.55.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise approximates to the weighted average share price during the year, which was 0.95 2017: 1.17.
The fair value of options granted under the EOP is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice model.
The Binomial Lattice model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as it allows exercise over a longer period of time between the vesting date and the expiry date.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plan during the year and all shares are now vested.
| 216 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, eligible employees have been granted options with an exercise price of zero or two pence.
Awards vest after the performance period of three to five years and are subject to the achievement of certain performance measures, with the exception of non-performance awards.
These non-performance options are only subject to continued employment on vesting dates which vary from six months to three years after the grant dates.
On the performance related awards, the performance measures are Earnings per Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Invested Capital ROIC.
Additional measures related to Strategic Objectives were introduced for new grants in2018.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2018 2018 2017 2017 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 41,001 0.02 34,485 0.02 Granted during the year 15,213 0.02 15,936 0.02 Exercised during the year 4,445 0.02 1,123 0.02 Lapsed during the year 8,218 0.02 8,297 0.02 Outstanding at 31 December 43,551 0.02 41,001 0.02 Of these options, 3,829,638 2017: 1,040,066 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a weighted average contractual life of 7.4 years 2017: 7.7 years.
In the year, fifteen grants were made, of which eight were non-performance conditional share awards and three nonperformance nominal share awards.
The remaining four performance based awards are with 85% of the award split equally between Earnings per Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Invested Capital ROIC performance conditions and the remaining 15% based on Strategic Objectives based on improvements in order book and employee engagement.
The options subject to market-based performance conditions such as the TSR condition for these awards, were valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
For options subject only to non-market based performance conditions such as the EPS and ROIC conditions a Black-Scholes model has been used.
This approach has also been used for the Awards made with no performance conditions attached to them.
The Monte Carlo Simulation model is considered to be the most appropriate for valuing options granted under schemes where there are changes in performance conditions by which the options are measured, such as for the Absolute Share Price or TSR based awards.
The Monte Carlo and Black-Scholes Models used the following inputs: 2018 Weighted average share price 0.97 Weighted average exercise price 0.02 Expected volatility 34.6% Expected life 3 Risk free rate 0.79% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 0.87 2017: 0.99.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 217 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Share based payment expense continued Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, eligible employees are entitled to use up to 50% of their earned annual bonus to purchase shares in the Group at market price.
Provided they remain in employment for this period, the shares are retained for that period and the performance measures have been met, the Group will make a matching share award, up to a maximum of two times the gross bonus deferred.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2018 2018 2017 2017 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 4,894 Nil 2,945 Nil Granted during the year 956 Nil 2,549 Nil Exercised during the year 755 Nil Nil Lapsed during the year 74 Nil 600 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 5,021 Nil 4,894 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2017: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.2 years 2017: 1.6 years.
There were 955,582 new options granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan in the year, with 100% of the deferred bonus subject to the same EPS performance conditions as the PSP.
The portion subject to EPS performance conditions was deemed to have a fair value equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS performance conditions are: 2018 Weighted average share price 0.99 Weighted average exercise price Nil Expected volatility 34.3% Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 1.01% The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 0.99 2017: 1.20.
| 218 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 36.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture undertakings and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with joint ventures and associates: Current Non current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2018 2018 2018 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 0.4 0.1 Associates 7.3 0.6 Other Dividends received joint ventures 9.7 Dividends received associates 20.0 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 4.8 5.3 Total 42.2 6.0 Joint venture receivable and loan amounts outstanding have arisen from transactions undertaken during the general course of trading, are unsecured, and will be settled in cash.
Interest arising on loans is based on LIBOR, or its equivalent, with an appropriate margin.
No guarantee has been given or received.
The only loan amounts owed by joint ventures or associates related to a single entity which have been provided for in full see note 6.
Current Non current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2017 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 0.5 0.1 Associates 7.1 0.5 Other Dividends received joint ventures 11.1 Dividends received associates 17.1 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 2.4 5.3 Total 38.2 5.9 Remuneration of key management personnel The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures: 2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 9.5 12.5 Share based payment expense 5.3 6.2 14.8 18.7 The key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee 2018: 17 individuals, 2017: 23 individuals.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 219 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Related party transactions continued Aggregate directors remuneration The total amounts for directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 4.0 5.5 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 3.1 6.3 Gains on exercise of share options 1.8 0.1 8.9 11.9 None of the directors are members of the Companys defined benefit pension scheme.
One director is a member of the money purchase scheme.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 131.
| 220 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2017 2018 restated Before 2018 Before 2017 2017 exceptional Exceptional 2018 exceptional Exceptional restated items items Total items items Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Operating profit for the year 112.4 31.9 80.5 40.7 19.6 21.1 Adjustments for: Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 28.8 28.8 27.0 27.0 Share based payment expense 14.7 14.7 11.4 11.4 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 8.9 8.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 0.1 0.1 Impairment of intangible assets 0.1 0.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19.5 19.5 20.9 20.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 22.9 22.9 25.8 25.8 Exceptional loss profit on disposal of subsidiaries andoperations 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.3 Reversal of impairment on loan balances 13.9 13.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant andequipment 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.3 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 1.5 1.5 0.3 0.3 Exceptional Interest in JV 0.3 0.3 Non cash R&D expenditure offset against intangible assets 0.7 0.7 Decrease in provisions 68.1 13.8 81.9 33.6 9.6 43.2 Other non cash movements 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Total non cash items 37.2 26.9 64.1 2.6 1.0 3.6 Operating cash inflow outflow before movements in working capital 75.2 58.8 16.4 38.1 20.6 17.5 Increase decrease in inventories 5.0 5.0 3.7 3.7 Increase decrease in receivables 22.9 0.4 22.5 8.5 4.5 13.0 Decrease increase in payables 6.3 18.2 24.5 26.5 16.4 42.9 Movements in working capital 21.6 18.6 3.0 14.3 11.9 26.2 Cash generated by operations 53.6 40.2 13.4 23.8 32.5 8.7 Tax paid 10.6 10.6 11.4 11.4 Non cash R&D expenditure 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 42.9 40.2 2.7 12.2 32.5 20.3 Results for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS15 with effect from 1 January 2017.
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to 3.6m 2017: 4.7m were financed by new financeleases.
Post balance sheet events On 7 January 2019, the Group signed a contract with the UK Home Office Visas and Immigration department to run tworegions of the new Asylum Accommodation and Support Services Contract AASC.
The Group continues to work through the anticipated financial impact that AASC will have on its results and financial position for 2019 and future years, particularly in relation to the lease of accommodation used to service the contract.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 221
