Shareholder Information Our website Electronic communications The Companys website, www.
com, provides access to We encourage shareholders to consider receiving their share price information as well as sections on managing your communications electronically which means you receive shareholding online, corporate governance and other information quickly and securely and allows us to investor relations information.
communicate in a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective way.
You can register for this service online using our share portal at www.
co. uk Shareholder queries Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Equiniti.
Duplicate documents Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Equiniti directly using one of the methods Some shareholders find that they receive duplicate listed opposite.
documentation due to having more than one account on the share register.
If you think you fall into this group and would like to combine your accounts, please contact our Registrar, American Depositary Receipts ADRs Equiniti.
Serco has established a sponsored Level I ADR programme.
Serco ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter market Changes of address SCGPY.
To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar of For queries relating to your ADR holding, please contact our your new address as soon as possible.
ADR depositary bank, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas.
Sharegift Managing your shares online If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering Registered Charity no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in to use our shareholder portal at www.
This the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good free service is provided by our Registrar, giving quick and causes.
You can find out more by visiting www.
org or easy access to your shareholding.
| 232 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
