Other information Glossary of terms Annualised current income EPRA Estimated rental value ERV Net initial yield Total annualised actual and estimated European Public Real Estate ERV is the market rental value of Net initial income at the date of income reserved by leases at a Association.
properties owned by the group, valuation expressed as a percentage valuation date.
No rent is attributed to estimated by the Groups valuers.
Yields reflect net EPRA adjustments leases which were subject to rent-free income after deduction of any ground Like-for-like ERV growth is the change Standard adjustments to calculate periods at that date.
It does not rents, head rents, rent charges and in ERV during a period, adjusted to EPRA measures, in accordance with reflect any ground rents, head rents estimated irrecoverable outgoings.
remove the impact of acquisitions and its BPR.
nor rent charges and estimated disposals, expressed as a percentage Property Income irrecoverable outgoings at the EPRA cost ratio of ERV at the start of the period.
Estimated income Total costs as a percentage of gross A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its refers to gross ERVs in respect of Fair value rental income.
shareholders paid out of qualifying rent reviews outstanding at the The amount at which an asset or profits.
A REIT is required to distribute EPRA earnings valuation date and, where appropriate, liability could be exchanged between at least 90% of its qualifying profits The level of recurring income arising ERV in respect of lease renewals two knowledgeable, willing and as a PID to its shareholders.
It outstanding at the valuation date unconnected parties in an arms length excludes all items which are not where the fair value reflects terms for transaction at the valuation date.
Real Estate Investment Trust relevant to the underlying and a renewed lease.
Like-for-like growth Gearing REIT recurring portfolio performance.
in annualised current income is the Nominal value of group borrowings A REIT is a tax designation for an change during a period, adjusted to EPRA EPS expressed as a percentage of EPRA entity or group investing in real remove the impact of acquisitions EPRA earnings divided by the net assets.
estate that reduces or eliminates and disposals, expressed as a weighted average number of shares corporation tax on rental profits and percentage of annualised current Interest cover in issue during a reporting period.
chargeable gains relating to the income at the start of the period.
Operating profit before investment rental business, providing certain EPRA net assets property disposals and valuation Alternative Performance criteria obligations set out in tax Net assets adjusted for items that movements, divided by finance legislation are met.
Measure APM are not expected to crystallise in costs net of finance income.
A financial measure of historical or normal circumstances, such as the Reversionary potential future financial performance, position Like-for-like growth in rents fair value of derivative financial The amount by which ERV exceeds or cash flows of the Group which is instruments and deferred tax on receivable annualised current income, not a measure defined or specified property valuation surpluses.
It The increase in rents receivable measured at a valuation date.
includes additional equity if all during an accounting period, adjusted Topped-up net initial yield vested share options were exercised.
to remove the impact of acquisitions, Best Practices Net initial yield adjusted to assume disposals and changes as a result of Recommendations BPR EPRA NAV rent-free periods or other larger refurbishment schemes, Standards set out by EPRA to provide EPRA net assets per share, including unexpired lease incentives, such as expressed as a percentage of rents comparable reporting between the potentially dilutive effect of discounted rent periods and receivable in the corresponding investment property companies.
outstanding options granted over stepped rents, have expired.
Blended cost of debt Total Shareholder Return TSR Loan-to-value LTV Weighted average cost of drawn EPRA triple net assets The change in the market price of Nominal value of borrowings borrowings, plus non-utilisation fees EPRA net assets amended to include an ordinary share plus dividends expressed as a percentage of the on undrawn borrowings.
the fair value of financial instruments reinvested expressed as a fair value of property assets.
percentage of the share price at the Building Research Long Term Incentive Plan beginning of the period.
EPRA NNNAV Establishment Environmental LTIP EPRA NAV amended to include the Valuation growth Assessment Method BREEAM An arrangement under which an fair value of financial instruments The valuation movement and An environmental impact assessment employee is awarded options in the and debt.
realised surpluses or deficits arising method for commercial buildings.
Company at nil cost, subject to a period from the groups investment Performance is measured across a EPRA vacancy of continued employment and the property portfolio expressed as a series of ratings: Pass, Very Good, The rental value of vacant property attainment of performance targets percentage return on the valuation Excellent and Outstanding available expressed as a percentage over a three-year vesting period.
at the beginning of the period of ERV of the total portfolio.
Compound Annual Growth Net asset value NAV adjusted, on a time weighted basis, Rate CAGR Equity shareholders funds divided for acquisitions, disposals and Equivalent yield The year-on-year growth rate of an by the number of ordinary shares at capital expenditure.
When Equivalent yield is the internal rate of investment over a specified period the balance sheet date.
measured on a like-for-like basis, return from an investment property, of time.
the calculation excludes those based on the gross outlays for the Net asset value return properties acquired or sold during purchase of a property including Diluted net asset value per The change in EPRA NAV per the period.
purchase costs, reflecting reversions ordinary share plus dividends paid share to current market rent, and such per ordinary share during the Net asset value per share taking into items as voids and non-recoverable period of calculation, expressed as a account the dilutive effect of expenditure but disregarding percentage of the EPRA NAV per potential vesting of share options.
potential changes in market rents.
share at the beginning of the period.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 148 Design: SG Design sg-design.
co. uk Print: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on XPER, a paper sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
This is a certified CarbonNeutral publication.
Emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this product have been measured and reduced to net zero through a verified carbon offsetting project via The CarbonNeutral Company.
This is in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, the global leading standard for carbon neutrality.
Shaftesbury PLC 22 Ganton Street Carnaby London W1F 7FD T: 020 7333 8118 shaftesbury.
