Governance Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Directors responsibility statement for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required under the Disclosure and to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Transparency Rules by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial pages 64 to 65 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
the Group and Company financial statements, which have Under company law the directors must not approve the financial been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of position and profit of the Group: and the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 61 of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 performance of the business and the position of the Group Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and and Company, together with a description of the principal Errors and then apply them consistently: risks and uncertainties that they face.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Directors statement under the UK present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Corporate Governance Code that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Each of the directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, understandable information: the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the balanced and understandable and provides the information specific requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the EU is necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of business model and strategy.
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups and Companys financial position and performance: state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs as This directors responsibilities statement was approved by the adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures Board and signed on its behalf by: disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Brian Bickell Chris Ward unless it is inappropriate to do so.
Chief Executive Finance Director The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 26 November 2018 26 November 2018 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the Group is placed on the Companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 110 3 Governance Governance Independent auditors report To the members of Shaftesbury PLC Our opinion on the financial Basis for opinion statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities In our opinion: under those standards are further described in the Auditors Shaftesbury PLCs Group financial statements and Parent responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section company Company financial statements the financial of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public The Group financial statements have been properly prepared interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient The Company financial statements have been properly and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions Conclusions relating to principal risks, of the Companies Act 2006: and going concern and viability statement The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as We have nothing to report in respect of the following information regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us Regulation.
to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: What we have audited the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 59 to 60 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are Shaftesbury PLCs financial statements at 30 September 2018 being managed or mitigated: comprise: the directors confirmation set out on page 59 in the annual Group Company report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would Balance sheet 4 4 threaten its business model, future performance, solvency Statement of comprehensive income 4 orliquidity: the directors statement set out on page 122 in the financial Cash flow statement 4 4 statements about whether they considered it appropriate to Statement of changes in equity 4 4 adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys 4 4 Related notes 1 to 24, including a ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve summary of significant accounting months from the date of approval of the financial statements: policies whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European obtained in the audit: or Union.
The Company financial statements have been prepared the directors explanation set out on page 61 in the annual in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies entity, over what period they have done so and why they Act 2006. consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 111 Governance Independent auditors report continued Overview of our audit approach Key Audit Matters The valuation of investment property including properties within the Longmartin Joint Venture Revenue recognition including the timing of revenue recognition, and the treatment of rents and incentives Audit scope The Group operates in Londons West End and consists of a single reportable segment across eleven statutory entities.
All of the Groups companies were included in the scope of the audit.
The Group audit team performed direct testing of the Longmartin Joint Venture balances which are included in the Group Materiality Overall Group materiality: 40m which represents 1% of total assets.
Specific Group materiality: 4.0m which represents 5% of operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net finance costs.
Key Audit Matters Our response to the risk Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Our audit procedures around the valuation of investment judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial property included: statements of the current period and include the most significant We understood and assessed the design and implementation assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to of the Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which investment property portfolio and managements review of the had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation valuations.
of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the We evaluated the competence of the external valuers which engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context included consideration of their qualifications and expertise, as of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our well as their independence.
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on We performed testing over the inputs to the valuations.
sample of properties we tested the contracted rent and key lease terms by agreeing this back to lease agreements.
Risk: The valuation of investment property 3,714.8m plus 228.7m being the Groups share in the 16% Fair value of investment properties Longmartin joint venture.
tested by audit team Chartered Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 84 : Accounting Surveyors policies pages 122 to 124 : and Note 8 of the Consolidated Fair value of investment properties Financial Statements pages 126 to 127.
84% tested by analytical procedures The valuation of investment property including properties held in the joint venture requires significant judgement and estimates by management and the external valuers.
Any input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in these judgements such as in The Group audit team includes Chartered Surveyors who respect of estimated rental value and yield profile applied could tested a sample of properties.
They challenged the valuation result in a material misstatement of the statement of approach and assumptions.
The sample size they tested comprehensive income and balance sheet.
accounted for 84% of the fair value of investment properties There is also a risk that management may unduly influence the including investment properties held in the Longmartin joint significant judgements and estimates in respect of property venture.
Our Chartered Surveyors compared the equivalent valuations in order to achieve property valuation and other yields applied to each property to an expected range of yields performance targets to meet market expectations or bonus taking into account market data and asset specific targets.
They also considered whether the other assumptions applied by the external valuers, such as the estimated rental values, tenant incentives and development costs to complete were supported by available data such as recent lettings and occupancy levels.
Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we looked for contra indicators for the estimated rental values and yields adopted.
We searched the tenant base to confirm there was no concentration of higher risk of failure tenants.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 112 3 3 Governance Independent auditors report continued In respect of the properties not in the sample tested by our Risk: Revenue recognition, including Chartered Surveyors 16% of the fair value, we performed the timing of revenue recognition, and detailed analytical procedures on a property-by-property basis.
This involved forming an expectation of the fair value of each the treatment of rents and incentives property in the portfolio by reference to relevant external 112.8m of rents receivable FY17: 103.4m.
market data relating to capital growth rates.
We investigated the Refer to the Accounting policies page 123 : and Note 2 of the valuations of those properties which were not in line with our Consolidated Financial Statements page 125. initial expectations.
This included further discussions with management and the external valuers and, where appropriate, Market expectations and profit based targets may place pressure the involvement of our Chartered Surveyors.
on management to distort revenue recognition.
This may result We made enquiries of the external valuers and inspected their in overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist in meeting terms of reference to confirm that they had not been subject current or future targets or expectations.
to undue influence or direction from management.
In order to distort rental income, management could manipulate We utilised our detailed analytical procedures and work of our the deferred revenue balance or the IFRS rent adjustment for Chartered Surveyors described above in order to assess for lease incentives.
evidence of undue management influence.
We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Our response to the risk Surveyors for a sample of properties focusing primarily on We performed detailed testing for a sample of leases by agreeing development properties which enabled us to assess the stage the annual rent back to the terms of the lease agreements.
of completion of, and gain specific insights into, these For a sample of leases, we tested that the lease income, including refurbishments developments.
the treatment of lease incentives, is on a straight-line basis, and in For development appraisals, we vouched the costs incurred to accordance with SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives.
date, and agreed the cost to complete estimates to approved We verified the completeness of the lease incentives budgets and contractual arrangements.
For a sample of leases, we read the terms to identify surveyors to discuss the project costs and risks associated rent free periods and other incentives.
We verified that these with the project.
incentives in our sample were correctly recorded in the rent Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the free asset and that income was correctly straight-lined.
external valuers to discuss the findings from our audit work described above and to seek further explanations as required.
We performed substantive analytical procedures and found We also discussed the impact of current market conditions on that the revenue recognised by the Group and each of the the property valuations.
operating companies was materially consistent with our expectations developed from rents in the tenancy schedules.
We performed analytical procedures to confirm the deferred Key observations communicated to income balance is materially within expectations.
We the Audit Committee substantively tested a sample of balances by agreeing the timing of rent recognised to invoices or rent agreements.
We have audited the inputs, assumptions and reviewed the methodology used by the external valuers.
We conclude that the We considered the decline in the UK retail and restaurant inputs and methodology applied are reasonable and that the sector and assessed the impact on the Groups financial external valuations are an appropriate assessment of the fair statements.
We obtained a list of known Creditors Voluntary value of investment properties at 30 September 2018.
Arrangements and looked at Shaftesburys tenant list to identify tenants at risk of non-payment of rental amounts.
We obtained We did not identify any exceptions or material errors in the input the aged debtors listing for the Group and the Longmartin testing for the sample we tested.
Joint Venture to identify aged debtors.
We tested recoverability We conclude that the valuation of each of the assets in the of the aged debtors by agreeing to subsequent cash receipts.
sample tested by our Chartered Surveyors are within a We enquired with and challenged management regarding the reasonable range.
appropriateness of the provision for doubtful debts.
We also We conclude that management provided an appropriate level of considered the recoverability of other tenant-related balances review and challenge over the valuations but we did not identify including lease incentive assets and prepaid letting costs.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls including journal entry testing to confirm the processing and timing of journals to record revenue is consistent with our expectations.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 113 Governance Independent auditors report continued Key observations communicated to An overview of the scope of our audit the Audit Committee Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit We audited the timing of revenue recognition, treatment of rents scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this and incentives, and assessed the risk of management override.
enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial We have assessed the recoverability of the aged debtors and statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation tenant-related balances, including lease incentive assets and of the Group, effectiveness of group-wide controls and changes prepaid letting costs, and concluded that the provision is in the business environment when assessing the level of work to reasonable.
be performed at each entity.
Based upon the audit procedures performed, we conclude that revenue has been recognised on an appropriate basis in the year.
Our application of materiality The procedures we carried out over revenue recognition apply We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing to all the Group`s revenue and the revenue in the Longmartin the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on Joint Venture.
the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: Performance Audit Basis Materiality materiality differences Overall 1% of total assets 40.0m 30.0m 2.0m Specific 5% of operating profit before 4.0m 3.0m 0.2m investment property valuation Applicable for account balances movements and net finance costs not related to investment properties, loans and borrowings During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality.
Materiality There has been no change in our overall materiality or in our The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually materiality threshold as at 30 September 2018. or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence In the prior year audit we adopted an overall materiality of 36m the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We also applied a specific materiality Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and of 3.7m based on 5% of operating profit investment property extent of our audit procedures.
valuation movements and net finance costs.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would Performance materiality be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We The application of materiality at the individual account or determined that total assets would be the most appropriate balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately basis for determining overall materiality given that key users of low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and the Group's financial statements are primarily focused on the undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
valuation of the Group's assets: primarily the investment property portfolio.
This provided a basis for determining the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, assessment of the Group's overall control environment, our identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and judgement is that overall performance materiality and specific determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in procedures.
For planning purposes this was initially based on the an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% total assets as at 31 March 2018.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to confirm that total detected and We assessed that for account balances not related to investment undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality for properties either wholly owned or within the Joint Venture, the financial statements as a whole.
loans and borrowings, a misstatement of less than overall materiality for the financial statements could influence the economic decisions of users.
We have determined that specific materiality for these areas should be based on operating profit before investment property valuation movements and net finance costs.
We believe that it is appropriate to use a profit-based measure for specific materiality as profit is also a focus of users of the financial statements.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 114 3 3 Governance Independent auditors report continued We have nothing to report in this regard.
Reporting threshold In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our An amount below which identified misstatements are considered responsibility to specifically address the following items in the as being clearly trivial.
other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to those items meet the following conditions: the Committee any uncorrected audit differences on investment property valuations in excess of 2m, as well as uncorrected Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 84 the audit differences in excess of 0.2m that relate to our specific statement given by the directors that they consider the annual testing of the other account balances not related to investment report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, properties, loans and borrowings.
These are set at 5% of their balanced and understandable and provides the information respective planning materiality.
We also agreed to report necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted performance, business model and strategy, is materially reporting on qualitative grounds.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 82 to 85 the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the section describing the work of the audit committee does not quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light appropriately address matters communicated by us to the of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
audit committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Other information Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate The other information comprises the information included in the Governance Code set out on page 74 the parts of the annual report including the Strategic report Overview, Strategic directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating report Annual Review, Governance and Other information to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate including Shareholder information, Portfolio analysis, Basis of Governance Code containing provisions specified for review valuation, Summary report by the valuers, Sustainability and the by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do Glossary of terms set out on pages 1 to 107 and 142 to 148, other not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Opinion on other matters prescribed other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly by the Companies Act 2006 stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Companies Act 2006. responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the the audit: audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we the information given in the strategic report and the directors identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material report for the financial year for which the financial statements misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and material misstatement in the financial statements or a material those reports have been prepared in accordance with misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we applicable legal requirements: have performed, we conclude that there is a material the information about internal control and risk management misstatement of the other information, we are required to systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about report that fact.
share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 115 Governance Independent auditors report continued Matters on which we are required to Explanation as to what extent the report by exception audit was considered capable of In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group detecting irregularities, including and the Company and its environment obtained in the course of fraud the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and the strategic report or the directors report: or assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements the information about internal control and risk management due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate and 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report with both those charged with governance of the entity and to you if, in our opinion: management.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Our approach was as follows: Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined the Company financial statements and the part of the that the most significant frameworks which are directly Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are agreement with the accounting records and returns: or those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code are not made: or and the relevant tax regulations in the United Kingdom, we have not received all the information and explanations we including the UK REIT regulations.
require for our audit We understood how the Company is complying with those a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by frameworks through enquiry with management, and by the Company identifying the Companys policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We also identified those Responsibilities of directors members of management who have the primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations, and for As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities reporting any known instances of non-compliance to those statement set out on page 110 the directors are responsible for charged with governance.
the preparation of the financial statements and for being We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal statements to material misstatement, including how fraud control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the might occur by reviewing the Companies risk register, enquiry preparation of financial statements that are free from material with management and the Audit Committee during the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
planning and execution phases of our audit.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are Based on this understanding we designed our audit responsible for assessing the Group and Companys ability to procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters regulations.
Our procedures involved the following: related to going concern and using the going concern basis of - Inquire of members of senior management, and when accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the appropriate, those charged with governance regarding their Group or the Company or to cease operations, or has no knowledge of any non-compliance or potential nonrealistic alternative but to do so.
compliance with laws and regulations that could affect the financial statements.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit - Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with of the financial statements governance.
- Obtaining and reading correspondence from legal and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about regulatory bodies including HRMC.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that website at https: www.
This an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always description forms part of our auditors report.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 116 3 3 Governance Independent auditors report continued Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company on 15 October 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering the years ended 30 September 2016 to 30 September 2018.
Our audit engagement letter was refreshed on 30 October 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 26 November 2018 1.
The m aintenance and integrity of the Shaftesbury PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
