FINANCIALS Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies adopted in this Annual Report and place at previous period ends.
There are no such arrangements in Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out below.
place at 31 December 2018 and we have updated our definition of net debt to incorporate other financial liabilities, including this type of working capital facility.
Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with ii Cash in transit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the The Group has reconsidered the appropriateness of its cash policy European Union EU, and therefore the Financial Statements comply in relation to the treatment of cash in transit by reference to current with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
guidance, acknowledging there may be mixed custom and practice in this area.
It has been determined that in some cases cash in transit The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical was being included in cash in advance of obtaining control of funds cost convention except for derivative financial instruments which are or cheques.
stated at their fair value.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are set The Group no longer considers this to be appropriate and has out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the determined that cash should only include electronic receipts that are years presented, unless otherwise stated.
cleared funds and cheques that are physically received by the period end date.
Prior year figures have been restated accordingly.
This has The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern resulted in a reduction in cash and an increase in trade receivables basis as set out on page 40. of 15.3m at 1 January 2017 and 13.6m at 31 December 2017.
There is no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement or The following subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to exemption net assets.
The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement has also been from audit under s479A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to restated, with cash and cash equivalents reducing by 13.6m at 31 subsidiary companies: Building Systems Limited registered number: December 2017, resulting in an increase in net cash from operating 07976470 and Metechno Limited registered number: 06464338. activities of 1.7m for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Group is committed to managing its capital structure to iii Classification of lease arrangements ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as a going The accounting for sale and leaseback transactions, in particular concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the relating to property, has been reassessed.
Two transactions, in optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
Further details can be June 2017 and December 2016, are now considered to meet the found on page 37. criteria for recognition as a finance lease rather than an operating lease at the date of inception of the leaseback.
The Consolidated There are no post balance sheet events requiring disclosure in these Income Statement for the year to 31 December 2017, and the Financial Statements.
Consolidated Balance Sheet at that date, have been restated for this reclassification.
Prior year restatements As part of the transition to new auditors, the Group has reviewed The restatement results in an increase in tangible fixed assets and certain accounting policies and judgements, resulting in a number finance lease liabilities of 13.1m at 31 December 2017. of errors being corrected by prior year restatements to previously reported numbers.
A summary of the changes made is provided The impact on the Consolidated Income Statement for the year below.
These have been restated in these Financial Statements and ended 31 December 2017 is a reduction in underlying operating full details of the effect on each financial line item affected are shown profit of 1.9m and an increase in finance costs of 0.7m, due to in Note 33. the add back of operating lease rentals replaced by charges for depreciation and interest, together with a change in the recognition of the profit on the sale which is now spread over the life of the i Definition of net debt finance lease instead of being recorded in full in the period of the The Groups previous definition of net debt, as included in the 2017 transaction.
Annual Report and Accounts, included the following: Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities, deferred consideration assets, other financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, obligations iv Provision for uncertain tax position under finance lease contracts, bank overdrafts, bank loans, private At 31 December 2017 there was a reported deferred tax asset of placement notes, loan notes and deferred consideration liabilities.
The Group has reassessed its deferred tax asset position and as a result believes that an increased deferred tax asset should At 31 December 2017, 8.0m of supplier balances in SIG France had have been recognised in relation to losses and fixed asset timing been settled via a credit card working capital facility.
definition of net debt did not refer to such facilities, this balance was included in trade payables at 31 December 2017.
The impact of recognising this is to increase the deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017 to 12.0m, and to increase profit after tax for the It has been determined it would be more appropriate to treat such year ended 31 December 2017 by 2.8m.
solutions as other financial liabilities and include within net debt.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 has therefore v Recognition of early settlement discounts been restated to reclassify these balances from trade payables to The Group previously accounted for early settlement discounts other financial liabilities and to increase net debt by 8.0m, with no when paid, however, under IAS 18 Revenue, revenue should take overall impact to net assets.
into account expected discounts allowed.
This has no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement or Consolidated Cash Flow This has no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement, but Statement for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Consolidated resulted in a change in classification between working capital and Balance Sheet has been restated at 1 January 2017 and 31 debt movements on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for December 2017, resulting in an increase in retained losses of 1.0m the year ended 31 December 2017.
There was no impact on other at each reporting date.
previously reported periods as there were no such arrangements in www.
com Stock code: SHI 113 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies In the comparative period, revenue was measured at the fair value vi Provision for leasehold dilapidations of the consideration received or receivable for goods or services, The Group has corrected its policy for recognising provisions in net of discounts and customer rebates, VAT and other sales-related relation to contractual obligations to reinstate leasehold properties taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods was recognised on receipt to their original state of repair.
Previously the provision was of goods by the customer.
Customer rebates were accounted for calculated with reference to the expired portion of individual lease as a separate component of the sales transaction, with a portion agreements, where such a clause exists in the lease contract.
The of the fair value of the consideration allocated to customer rebates Group has reviewed the contractual obligations and provisions and and recognised in the period as earned.
Revenue generated from considers that where a liability exists to rectify or reinstate leasehold a contract to provide services was recognised by reference to the improvements and modifications carried out at the inception of the stage of completion of the specific transaction and assessed on lease, provision should be made at the inception of the lease, with the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total a corresponding asset recognised in fixed assets and depreciated services to be provided.
Revenue from construction contracts was over the term of the lease.
Provisions to rectify repairs and general recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract wear and tear continue to be recognised as incurred over the life of activity at the reporting date.
Stage of completion was normally the lease.
Provisions for dilapidations are also required in Germany measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work which were not previously recognised.
This prior period restatement performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, has resulted in an increase to fixed assets of 2.6m, an increase to except where this would not be representative of the stage of liabilities of 7.9m and an increase in retained losses of 5.3m at completion.
31 December 2017, and a increase to the loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 0.5m.
The cumulative catch-up adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 is shown in the Statement vii Review of operating segments of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 and The operating segments disclosure has been expanded in a manner resulted in an increase in opening retained losses at 1 January consistent with the Groups internal reporting.
The Group elected to apply the cumulative catch-up Europe has been separated into Air Handling, Benelux and Poland, method only to contracts that were not completed at 1 January 2018. and the comparatives for previous periods have been reclassified to reflect this.
The details of the significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are set out below.
The above restatements impacted net debt and EBITDA which had an impact on headline financial leverage and interest cover covenant a Sale of goods calculations, but the Group remained within covenant requirements The majority of the Groups revenue arises from contracts with for all relevant periods.
The overall impact of the restatements was customers for the sale of goods, with one performance obligation.
to increase net debt by 34.9m to 258.7m at 31 December 2017.
Revenue is recognised at the point in time that control of the goods Additional interest payable as a result of the restatements has passes to the customer, usually on delivery to the customer.
The been accrued in the relevant period 0.4m for the year ended 31 adoption of IFRS15 did not have an impact on the timing of revenue December 2017. recognition in relation to the sale of goods, although the amount of revenue recognised is impacted by the following: New Standards, Interpretations and Amendments adopted Volume rebates The Group has initially applied IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 from 1 January The Group provides retrospective volume rebates to certain 2018.
A number of other new standards are also effective from 1 customers.
Under IFRS 15, retrospective volume rebates give rise to January 2018 but they do not have a material effect on the Groups variable consideration.
Prior to the adoption of IFRS 15, the Group estimated the expected Due to the transition methods chosen by the Group in applying volume rebates using an expected value approach and included these standards, comparative information throughout these Financial a provision for rebates as a reduction to trade receivables.
This Statements has not been restated to reflect the requirements of the continues to be appropriate under IFRS 15. new standards.
Early settlement discounts IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Under IFRS15, early settlement discounts are estimated using The Group has adopted IFRS 15 using the modified retrospective the expected value approach and recognised at the time of method approach and therefore the 2017 comparative information recognising the revenue, subject to the constraint regarding variable has not been restated and the opening equity at 1 January 2018 is consideration that it is highly probable that a change in estimate adjusted for the cumulative effect of applying IFRS 15 at that date.
would not result in a significant reversal of the cumulative revenue The comparative information continues to be reported under IAS 18 recognised.
As part of our review of the application of IFRS 15 it was and IAS 11.
The details of the significant changes and quantitative considered that the previous treatment of early settlement discounts impact of the changes are set out below.
under IAS 18 was inappropriate and this has been amended accordingly by a restatement of the prior year reported numbers, as IFRS 15 applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers, noted in Prior year restatements v above.
unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.
The new standard establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product or service to a customer.
114 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS measured based on the percentage of total costs incurred.
The b Construction contracts adoption of IFRS 15 does not have an impact on the timing or The Group has the following revenue streams which fall under the measurement of revenue recognition for these contracts.
The category of construction contracts: business carrying out these contracts was sold in February 2018 and this revenue stream is therefore not relevant going forward.
i Manufacture and installation of roofing systems Prior to the adoption of IFRS 15, revenue was recognised in two stages - on completion of manufacture and on installation.
iv Contracts for provision of industrial services Under IFRS 15, the Group has assessed that there is one The Groups Ireland & Other segment provides industrial performance obligation, being the installation of the roofing painting, coating and repair services.
Under IFRS 15, the Group system, and that revenue can continue to be recognised over concluded that revenue from these contracts will continue to be time on a milestone basis, provided appropriate terms are recognised over time, as the entitys performance enhances a included in the contract to confirm entitlement to payment for customer-controlled asset, using an output method to measure performance to date.
Contract terms have been amended from progress towards completion depending on individual contract 1 January 2018, but an adjustment is recorded on transition in terms.
relation to contracts in progress under previous contract terms, increasing retained losses at 1 January 2018 by 0.7m.
The Under IFRS 15, any earned consideration that is conditional business carrying out these contracts was sold in December is recorded as a contract asset.
A contract asset becomes a 2018 and this revenue stream is not relevant going forward.
receivable when receipt is conditional only on the passage of time.
Therefore, upon adoption of IFRS 15, revenue recognised from construction contracts described above which has not yet ii Air Handling projects been invoiced is recognised as a contract asset, which is shown The goods and services supplied as part of an air handling as a separate line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheet contract are significantly integrated and considered to be one rather than as part of trade and other receivables.
The criteria for recognition over time are considered to apply as the entitys performance creates and or enhances an asset controlled by the customer, the assets v Presentation and disclosure requirements created do not have an alternative use as the installations are The Group has disaggregated revenue recognised from on the customers premises, and the entity has an enforceable contracts with customers into categories that depict how right to payment for performance completed to date.
Progress the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and towards completion is measured on the basis of costs incurred.
cash flows are affected by economic factors.
The Group has The adoption of IFRS 15 does therefore not have an impact on also disclosed information about the relationship between the timing of revenue recognition for these contracts.
the disclosure of disaggregated revenue and the revenue information disclosed for each reportable segment.
Refer to Note 1 for the disclosure on disaggregated revenue.
iii Manufacture and supply of modular housing Under IFRS 15 the Group has assessed that there is one performance obligation, and that revenue is recognised over time as control passes on a milestone basis as each housing module is supplied.
Progress towards completion is The following tables summarise the impacts of adopting IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2018: a Consolidated Balance Sheet Impact of changes in accounting policies Balances without adoption of As reported Adjustments IFRS 15 At 31 December 2018 m m m Trade and other receivables 477.7 2.2 479.9 Contract assets 1.8 1.8 Other assets 761.4 761.4 Total assets 1,240.9 0.4 1,241.3 Trade and other payables 428.3 1.8 430.1 Contract liabilities 1.6 1.6 Other liabilities 348.1 348.1 Total liabilities 778.0 0.2 778.2 Net assets 462.9 0.2 463.1 Retained losses 68.3 0.2 68.1 Other capital and reserves 531.2 531.2 Total equity 462.9 0.2 463.1 www.
com Stock code: SHI 115 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies b Consolidated Income Statement and Other Comprehensive Income Impact of changes in accounting policies Balances without adoption of As reported Adjustments IFRS 15 m m m For the period ended 31 December 2018 Revenue 2,741.9 2.1 2,739.8 Cost of sales 2,007.0 1.5 2,005.5 Operating expenses 690.6 690.6 Income tax expense credit 10.6 0.1 10.5 Other expense 15.8 15.8 Profit for the period 17.9 0.5 17.4 Total comprehensive income 21.5 0.5 21.0 c Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Impact of changes in accounting policies Balances without adoption of As reported Adjustments IFRS 15 m m m For the period ended 31 December 2018 Retained losses at 1 January 2018 59.5 0.7 58.8 Profit for the period 17.9 0.5 17.4 Other movements in equity 504.5 504.5 Total equity at 31 December 2018 462.9 0.2 463.1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The accounting for financial liabilities remains the same as it was The Group has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with a date under IAS 39 and therefore this has not had an impact on the of initial application of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 Groups accounting policies or Financial Statements.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: b Hedge accounting classification and measurement: hedge accounting: and impairment.
The Group has chosen to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 and has applied this prospectively.
The new hedge With the exception of hedge accounting, which the Group has accounting rules require the Group to ensure that hedge accounting applied prospectively, the Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively, relationships are aligned with its risk management objectives with the initial application date of 1 January 2018, but has chosen not and strategy and to apply a more qualitative and forward-looking to restate comparative information.
approach to assessing hedge effectiveness.
The nature and effects of the key changes to the Groups accounting At the date of initial application, 1 January 2018, all existing hedging policies resulting from its adoption of IFRS 9 are summarised below.
relationships are eligible to be treated as continuing hedging relationships under IFRS 9.
The adoption of the hedge accounting a Classification and measurement requirements of IFRS 9 has resulted in a reclassification within equity Under IFRS 9, all financial assets are initially recognised at fair between other reserves representing the deferred cost of hedging value, plus or minus in the case of a financial asset not at fair value 0.9m reclassified to cost of hedging reserve at 1 January 2018. through profit or loss transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial instrument.
Debt financial assets Under IAS 39 all gains and losses arising from the Groups cash flow are subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through hedging relationships were eligible to be reclassified subsequently profit and loss FVPL or fair value through other comprehensive to profit or loss.
However, under IFRS 9, gains and losses arising on income FVOCI.
The classification is based on two criteria: the cash flow hedges of forecast purchases of non-financial assets for Groups business model for managing the assets and whether the example a fixed asset or inventory need to be incorporated into the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and initial carrying amounts of the non-financial assets.
This change only interest on the principal amount outstanding the SPPI criterion.
applies prospectively from the date of initial application of IFRS 9 and This replaces the previous IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, has no impact on the presentation of comparative figures.
loans and receivables and available for sale.
The classification of the Groups financial assets under IFRS 9 is as follows: Amortised cost: trade and other receivables and deferred consideration Fair value through profit and loss: derivative financial instruments The above classification does not have any impact on the classification, presentation or carrying value of financial assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
116 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS The Group plans to apply IFRS 16 initially on 1 January 2019, using c Impairment the modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the cumulative IFRS 9 replaces the incurred losses model in IAS 39 with an effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as an adjustment to expected credit loss ECL model.
The new impairment model the opening balance of retained earnings at 1 January 2019, with no applies to financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract restatement of comparative information.
assets and debt investments at FVOCI, but not to investments in equity instruments.
Under IFRS 9, credit losses are recognised earlier The Group will elect to use the exemptions proposed by the than under IAS 39. standard on lease contracts for which the lease terms ends within 12 months as of the date of initial application, and lease contracts for For contract assets and trade receivables, the Group has applied which the underlying asset is of low value.
the standards simplified approach and has calculated ECLs based on lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group has established a The Group estimates that it will recognise a total lease liability provision matrix that is based on the Groups historical credit loss of c. 314m as at 1 January 2019, reflecting the total future lease experience, adjusted for forward looking factors specific to the payments discounted to present value, and a right-of-use asset of debtors and economic environment.
c. 308m based on the lease liability plus asset restoration costs less The adoption of the ECL requirements of IFRS 9 has not resulted impairment.
Therefore, no significant change in overall net assets is in any material change to the impairment allowances for trade expected at 1 January 2019. receivables and contract assets.
Due to the adoption of IFRS 16, Group operating profit for 2019 is expected to increase by c. 7m as rent is removed and part replaced Other amendments by depreciation.
Group profit before tax is expected to decrease by Several other potentially relevant amendments and interpretations c. 4m as total depreciation and interest is greater than the previous apply for the first time in 2018, but do not have an impact on the rent cost due to the timing and maturity of the lease portfolio.
Financial Statements of the Group: Net debt is expected to increase by c. 291m at 1 January 2019.
IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Financial covenants in relation to the debt facilities described in Advance Considerations Note 32 are based on existing accounting standards until maturity Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property impacting from October 2020 and therefore the adoption of IFRS Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share- 16 will not have an impact on compliance with existing covenants.
based Payment Transactions Other Standards There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet New Standards, Amendments and effective which are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Basis of consolidation following significant standards and interpretations, which have not The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial been applied in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet Statements of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : after eliminating all significant intercompany transactions and balances.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control beginning on or after 1 January 2019 passed.
The Group is required to adopt IFRS 16 Leases from 1 January Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated 2019 which replaces IAS 17 Leases.
The standard eliminates the subsidiaries are identified separately therein.
Non-controlling classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the for lessees and introduces a single lease accounting model where original business combination and the non-controlling interests the lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset is of low value.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling liability to make lease payments and an asset representing the right interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests to use the underlying asset during the lease term.
The nature of in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which expenses related to those leases will now change as IFRS 16 replaces the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the the straight-line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities.
attributed to the shareholders of the Company.
In addition, the Group will no longer recognise provisions for Profit and loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between operating leases that it assesses to be onerous, instead, the Group the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the will include payments due under the lease in its lease liability and previous carrying amount of the net assets including goodwill and impair the value of the right-of-use asset.
Lessees will also be intangible assets of the businesses.
required to remeasure the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events.
The lessee will generally recognise the amount of the re-measurement of the lease liability as an adjustment to the rightof-use asset.
com Stock code: SHI 117 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies All results are from continuing operations under International At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities Accounting Standards as the businesses classified as non-core denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the rates of in 2018 or 2017 did not meet the disclosure criteria of being exchange prevailing at that date.
discontinued operations as they did not individually or in aggregate represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary operation.
In order to give an indication of the underlying earnings undertakings are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange of the Group, the results of these businesses have been included prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are within Other items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The translated into Sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2017 have been as an approximation where actual rates do not fluctuate significantly.
re-analysed to present net operating profits of 6.3m attributable to businesses classified as non-core during 2018 within Other items.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedgethe Groups investment Goodwill and business combinations in such operations, are reported in the Consolidated Statement of All business combinations are accounted for by applying the Comprehensive Income.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange the fair value of identifiable assets including intangible assets and differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation are liabilities of the business acquired.
reclassified to the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, Consolidated Income Statement disclosure or more frequently when there isan indication that goodwill may Income statement items are presented in the middle column of the be impaired.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other items where they is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs are significant in size and nature, and either they do not form part expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the of the trading activities of the Group or their separate presentation recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of enhances understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other Items classified as Other items are as follows: assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised on goodwill is Costs related to acquisitions not reversed in a subsequent period.
The Group has made a number of acquisitions in previous years.
There are a number of specific costs relating to these acquisitions On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of remaining which make comparison of performance of the businesses and goodwill relating to the entity disposed of is included in the segments difficult.
Therefore, the following items are recorded as determination of any profit or loss ondisposal.
Other items to provide a more comparable view of the businesses and enhance the clarity of the performance of the Group and its Goodwill recorded in foreign currencies is retranslated at each businesses to the readers of the Financial Statements.
Any movements in the carrying value of goodwill as a has grown both organically with the development of new operating result of foreign exchange rate movements are recognised in the subsidiaries and through acquisition.
However, there is significant Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
inconsistency between the accounting treatment of the goodwill and intangibles associated with the acquisition of businesses and those Any excess of the fair value of net assets over consideration arising generated internally.
On an unadjusted basis, a business acquired on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the Consolidated under IFRS 3 would report substantially lower operating profits Income Statement.
and a lower return on capital than a business acquired prior to the introduction of IFRS 3 and also to those businesses which have been developed by the Group, thus making comparison of performance of Non-current assets or disposal groups the businesses and segments difficult: held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale are i amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs combinations: to sell.
ii expenses related to contingent consideration required to be treated as remuneration for acquired businesses: Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction iii costs and credits arising from the re-estimation of deferred and rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions: and met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal iv costs related to the acquisition of businesses.
group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one Impairment charges year from the date of classification.
Impairment charges related to non-current assets are non-cash items and tend to be significant in size.
The presentation of these Foreign currency as Other items further enhances the understanding of the ongoing Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the performance of the Group.
Impairments of property, intangible local currency and converted at actual exchange rates at the date of assets and other tangible fixed assets are included in Other items if the transaction.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange related to a fundamental restructuring project or other fundamental rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an project.
Other impairments are included in underlying results.
exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
118 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Profits and losses on agreed sale or closure of non-core Taxation businesses and associated impairment charges The taxation effect of Other items, the effect of the change in rates of The gain or loss on the sale or closure of businesses tends to be taxation on deferred tax and tax adjustments in respect of previous significant in size and irregular in nature and is related to businesses years Other items are shown within Other items in order to enhance that will not be part of the continuing Group.
The gain or loss on the understanding of the underlying tax position of the Group.
the sale or closure of these businesses is therefore included within Other items.
The prior year comparatives have been reclassified to include in Other items the revenue, results and associated taxation of Net operating losses attributable to businesses identified as businesses that have been identified as non-core since the signing of non-core the 2017 Financial Statements.
Operating results from businesses identified as non-core do not form part of the ongoing trading activities of the Group and they Revenue recognition are therefore recorded separately in Other items in order to For the year ended 31 December 2018, revenue is recognised in enhance the understanding of the ongoing financial performance accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers of the Group and its businesses.
Non-core businesses are those as described in the section New standards, interpretations and businesses that have been closed or disposed of or where the amendments adopted.
This section also describes the policies Board has resolved to close or dispose of the business prior to applied in the previous year and the changes as a result of adopting signing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The presentation is applied IFRS 15 in the current year.
retrospectively, so businesses classified as non-core subsequent to the period end before the Financial Statements are signed are Supplier rebates included in the Other items column in the reporting period, and prior Supplier rebate income is significant to the Groups result, with a year comparatives are restated for businesses identified as non-core substantial proportion of purchases covered by rebate agreements.
subsequent to signing of the prior year Annual Report and Accounts.
Some supplier rebate agreements are non-coterminous with the Net restructuring costs Groups financial year, and firm confirmation of amounts due may Restructuring costs are classified as Other items if they relate to not be received until six months after the balance sheet date.
a fundamental change in the organisational structure of the Group or a fundamental change in the operating model of a business Where the Group relies on estimates, these are made with reference within the Group.
Costs may include redundancy, property closure to contracts or other agreements, management forecasts and costs and consultancy costs, which are significant in size and will detailed operational workbooks.
Supplier rebate income estimates not be incurred under the ongoing structure or operating model are regularly reviewed by senior management.
These costs are therefore recorded as Other items in order to provide a better understanding of the ongoing financial Outstanding amounts at the balance sheet date are included in trade performance of the Group.
Careful consideration is applied by payables when the Group has the right to offset against amounts management in assessing whether these costs relate to fundamental owing to the supplier and therefore settles on a net basis, in line with restructuring and changing the structure and operating model of IAS 32 criteria.
Where the supplier rebates are not netted off the the business as opposed to costs incurred in the normal course of amounts owing to that supplier, the outstanding amount is included business.
within prepayments and accrued income.
The carrying value of inventory is reduced by the associated amount where the inventory Other specific items has yet to be sold at the balance sheet date.
Other specific items, for example profit on sale of property not related to ongoing operations, are recorded in Other items where Operating profit they do not form part of the underlying trading activities of the Operating profit is stated after charging distribution costs, selling Group in order to enhance the understanding of the financial and marketing costs and administrative expenses, but before finance performance of the Group.
This includes, for example, profit on income and finance costs.
sale of property not related to ongoing operations ie.
related to a branch or business closure or property sold as part of a Taxation fundamental restructuring programme.
Profit on the sale of property Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods presented comprises in connection with branch or office moves in the normal course both current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the of business is included within underlying results.
A full breakdown Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates of other specific items is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised Financial Statements.
in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Other items within finance income and finance costs The recycling of amounts previously recorded in reserves in respect Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for of interest rate derivative contracts cancelled following the Groups the year, using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance equity issuance in 2009 are recorded within Other items as the sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous amounts relate to a fundamental refinancing, rather than the years.
ongoing hedging activities of the Group.
The amounts relating to Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally this have ceased in 2018 as they have become fully recycled.
The enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax unwinding of provision discounting for provisions that have been liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same included as Other items is included within Other items consistent taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax with the classification of the provision.
Other provision discounting is assets and liabilities on a net basis.
included within underlying finance costs.
com Stock code: SHI 119 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Intangible assets providing for all temporary differences between the carrying The Group recognises intangible assets at cost less accumulated amounts of assets and liabilities forfinancial reporting purposes and amortisation and impairment losses.
The Group recognises two the amounts used for taxation purposes.
types of intangible asset: acquired and purchased.
Acquired intangible assets arise as a result of applying IFRS 3 Business In accordance with IAS 12, the following temporary differences are Combinations which requires the separate recognition of intangible not provided for: assets from goodwill on all business combinations.
Purchased intangible assets relate primarily to software that is separable from goodwill not deductible for taxation purposes: any associated hardware.
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: or Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives as follows: differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and Current estimate the Group is able to control the reversal.
Amortisation period of useful life Customer relationships Life of the relationship 7 years The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected Non-compete contracts Life of the contract 3 years manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the Computer software Useful life of the software 3-10 years balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is amortisation commencing once the assets are ready for their probable that future taxable profits will be available against which intended use.
the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be Property, plant and equipment realised.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at original cost to the Group less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including senior executives of the Group receive Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment on a employees render services as consideration for equity instruments straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: equity-settled transactions.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based on the Groups Current estimate of useful life estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair Freehold buildings 50 years value determined is then expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a Leasehold buildings Period of lease corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the options is Plant and machinery including 3-8 years or length of lease measured using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo option pricing motor vehicles model as appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
For equity-settled share Residual values, which are based on market rates, are reassessed options, at each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate annually.
of the number of share options expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the depreciation charged on the same basis as all other assets once Consolidated Income Statement such that the cumulative expense those assets are ready for their intended use.
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Investment property Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including account when determining the grant date fair value of awards, but transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group has the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the chosen to apply the cost model.
Investment properties are therefore Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will recognised at cost and depreciated over the useful life, and are ultimately vest.
Market performance conditions are reflected within impaired when appropriate in accordance with IAS 16 Property, the grant date fair value.
Any other conditions attached to an award, plant and equipment.
but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Non-vesting conditions are reflected in Transfers are made to or from investment property only when the fair value of an award and lead to an immediate expensing of an there is a change in use.
If owner-occupied property becomes award unless there are also service and or performance conditions.
an investment property, the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the policy stated under property, plant and No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest equipment up to the date of change in use.
because non-market performance and or service conditions have not been met.
Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
120 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Borrowing costs Financial assets Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction As described in the section New standards, amendments and or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily interpretations, financial assets are classified as either financial take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use assets at amortised cost or financial assets at fair value through or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such a time as profit and loss in accordance with IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
In the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All the previous financial year financial assets were classified as either other borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or loans and Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic The classification at initial recognition depends on the financial benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be assets contractual cash flow characteristics and the Groups measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by business model for managing them.
With the exception of trade reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated for which the Group has applied the practical expedient, the Group future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of to that assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the Group has applied the practical Leases and hire purchase agreements expedient are measured at the transaction price determined under The cost of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase IFRS 15. agreements is capitalised with an equivalent liability categorised as appropriate under current liabilities or non-current liabilities.
The The Groups financial assets are all measured at amortised cost, asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its useful except for derivative financial instruments.
financial assets at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met: Rentals under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the lease the financial asset is held within a business model with the obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual remaining balance of the liability.
The finance costs are charged in cash flows: and arriving at profit before tax.
the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate using the effective interest method and are subject to impairment.
benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Groups financial assets include trade receivables, deferred consideration and cash and cash equivalents.
In the previous financial year these were classified as Inventories loans and receivables and were initially measured at fair value and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including an appropriate subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and consistent with IFRS 9. discounts and net realisable value.
The cost formula used in measuring inventories is either a weighted average cost, or a first in first out basis, depending on the most appropriate method for each Impairment of financial assets particular business.
The Group recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs for all debt instruments held at amortised cost.
ECLs are based on Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less the difference between the contractual cash flows due in accordance further costs expected to be incurred up to completion and disposal.
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective appropriate.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies the standards simplified approach and calculates ECLs based on lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group has established Cash and cash equivalents a provision matrix that is based on the Groups historical credit Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits loss experience, adjusted for forward looking factors specific to the with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash andcash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Cash held but not available for use by the Group is disclosed as restricted cash within Note 19. www.
com Stock code: SHI 121 Statement of Significant Accounting Policies Previously, financial assets including trade receivables were Offsetting of financial instruments assessed for indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis.
Financial Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount assets were impaired where there was objective evidence that, is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet if there is a currently as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle had been negatively impacted.
When there was objective evidence the liabilities simultaneously.
of impairment, appropriate allowances were made for estimated irrecoverable amounts based upon expected future cash flows Derivative financial instruments discounted by an appropriate interest rate where applicable.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments including interest The carrying amount of the financial asset was reduced by the rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, and cross-currency impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception swaps to hedge its exposure toforeign currency exchange and of trade receivables, where the carrying amount was reduced interest rate risks arising from operational and financing activities.
In through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable accordance with its Treasury Policy, the Group does nothold orissue was considered to be uncollectible it was written off against the derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge written off were credited to the Consolidated Income Statement.
accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or non-current liabilities if the Derecognition remainingmaturity of thederivatives is more than 12 months and A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or they are not expected to be otherwise realised or settled within 12 part of a group of similar financial assets is primarily derecognised months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current i. e. removed from the Groups consolidated statement of financial liabilities.
position when: Derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately at fair the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or value.
Subsequent to their initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are then stated at their fairvalue.
The fair value of the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from derivative financial instruments is derived from mark-to-market the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash valuations obtained from the Groups relationship banks.
flows in full without material delay to a third party under a passthrough arrangement: and either a the Group has transferred Unless hedge accounting is achieved, the gain or loss on substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b the Group remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately and is has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and included as part offinance income or finance costs, together with rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
other fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, Trade receivables that are factored out to banks and other financial within Other items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
institutions without recourse to the Group are derecognised at the point of factoring as the risks and rewards of the receivables have Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument been fully transferred.
In assessing whether the receivables qualify expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, no longer qualifies for derecognition the Group has considered the receivables and for hedge accounting, or when the Group revokes the hedging receivable insurance contracts as two separate units of account.
At that time, anycumulative gain or loss on the hedging Therefore, the insurance is not included as part of the derecognition instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the assessment on the basis that the insurance is not similar to the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is nolonger receivables.
The Group has elected to recognise cash inflows from expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the sale of factored receivables as an operating cash flow.
equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
Financial liabilities For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities, except for commitment derivative financial instruments see below, are recognised initially at Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently measured cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value commitment through profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition and only if the criteria in IFRS 9 are satisfied.
The Group has not Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which it wishes When determining the fair value of financial liabilities, the expected to apply hedge accounting, along with its risk management objectives future cash flows are discounted using an appropriate interest rate.
and its strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial Before 1 January 2018, the documentation includes identification liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the contractual arrangement.
nature of the risk being hedged and how the Group will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instruments fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or 122 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that Property provisions they actually have been highly effective throughout the reporting The Group makes provisions in respect of onerous leasehold periods for which they were designated.
From 1 January 2018, the property contracts and leasehold dilapidation commitments where documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, it is probable that a transfer ofeconomic benefit will be required to the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the settle a present obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision Group will assess whether the hedging relationship meets the hedge is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the effectiveness requirements including the analysis of sources of present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the hedge ineffectiveness and how the hedge ratio is determined.
A risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Provisions are hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it meets all of measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be the following effectiveness requirements: required to settle the obligation.
There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and Pension schemes the hedging instrument SIG operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these defined benefit pension schemes is The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of result from that economic relationship future benefit thatemployees have earned in return for their service The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that in both current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted using an resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group appropriate discount rate to determine itspresent value and the fair actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that value of any plan assets is deducted.
the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item Hedges that meet all the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting are Where the benefits of the plan are improved, the portion of the accounted for as described below: increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement, at the earlier of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and when the Fair value hedges entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of The full service cost of the pension schemes is charged to operating the hedged item and is recognised in the Consolidated Income profit.
Net interest costs on defined benefit pension schemes are Statement within Other items.
The change in the fair value of the recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Discretionary hedging instrument is also recognised in the Consolidated Income contributions made by employees or third parties reduce service Statement within Other items.
costs upon payment of these contributions into the plan.
Cash flow hedges Any actuarial gain or loss arising is charged through the Consolidated The effective part of any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is Statement of Comprehensive Income and is made up of the recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive difference between theexpected returns on assets and those Income in the hedging and translation reserve.
When the forecast actually achieved, any changes in the actuarial assumptions for transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial demographics andanychanges in the financial assumptions used in asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or the valuations.
loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full and presented on a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The associated deferred financial asset or financial liability, the associated gains or losses tax asset is recognised within non-current assets in the Consolidated that were previously recognised in the Consolidated Statement Balance Sheet.
of Comprehensive Income are reclassified into the Consolidated Income Statement in the same periodor periods during which the For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the Consolidated Income Consolidated Income Statement in respect of pension costs and Statement.
other post-retirement benefits isthecontributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and For cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of any gain or loss is contributions actually paid are included within either accruals recognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on derivative orprepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
financial instruments and is included as part of finance income orfinance costs within Other items in the Consolidated Income Dividends Statement.
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Financial Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at The portion of any gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge the Annual General Meeting.
a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised inthe Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective portion of any gain or loss isrecognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on derivative financial instruments and is included as part of finance income or finance costs within Other items within the Consolidated Income Statement.
Gainsandlosses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement when foreign operations are disposed of.
