Company Statement of Significant Accounting Policies i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 and Basis of accounting The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A to 38D, 40A under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation to 40B, 111, and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial of financial instruments which are held at fair value as disclosed Statements below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows consideration given in exchange for the goods and services.
the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that Disclosures price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the related party transactions entered into between two or more Company takes into account the characteristics of the asset or members of a group liability if market participants would take those characteristics into the requirements of paragraphs 130 f ii, 130 f iii, 134 d to 134 f account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
and 135 c to 135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Fair value for measurement purposes in these Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions Share-based payments that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have The accounting policy for share-based payments IFRS 2 is some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 120. realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
Categorisation of fair value is set out in the Group Accounts on page 156.
Derivative financial instruments The accounting policy for derivative financial instruments is The separate Financial Statements have been prepared in consistent with that of the Group as detailed on pages 122 and 123. accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies using FRS 101.
FRS 101 sets out a reduced Financial assets and liabilities disclosure framework for a qualifying entity that would otherwise The accounting policy for financial assets and liabilities is consistent apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements with that of the Group as detailed on pages 121 and 122. of EU-adopted IFRS.
The Company is a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 101.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less The Company has initially applied IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018, the provision for impairment.
nature and effects of the key changes to the Companys accounting policies in relation to this are as set out in the Group Accounts on pages 116 and 117.
In addition, the Company has assessed Tangible fixed assets on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated The accounting policy for tangible fixed assets is consistent with that with Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings.
The impairment of the Group as detailed on page 120. methodology applied depends on the ability to repay amounts repayable on demand and whether there has been any significant Foreign currency change in credit risk.
The accounting policy for foreign currency is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 118.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has not resulted in any adjustment to the amount recognised in the Company Financial Statements in relation Taxation to the impairment allowance for Amounts owed by subsidiary The accounting policy for taxation is consistent with that of the undertakings.
Group as detailed on page 119.
A number of other new standards are also effective, including IFRS 15, from 1 January 2018 but they do not have a material effect on Dividends the Companys Financial Statements.
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Accounts until The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements, in Meeting.
accordance with FRS 101: the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative information in respect of: 198 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Company Statement of Significant Accounting Policies Impairment of fixed asset investments Prior year restatements Determining whether the Companys investments are impaired As detailed on page 113, as part of the transition to new auditors, requires an estimation of the investments value in use.
The key the Group has reviewed certain accounting policies and judgements, estimates made in the value in use calculation in relation to trading resulting in a number of errors being corrected by prior year subsidiaries are those regarding discount rates, sales growth rates, restatements to previously reported numbers.
The restatements and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the impacted net debt and EBITDA which had an impact on headline operational gearing of the business.
The directors estimate discount financial leverage and interest cover covenant calculations, but rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the Group remained within covenant requirements for all relevant the time value of money for the Group.
The Company accounts have been restated to show the additional interest payable of 0.4m at December 2017 and the The Group performs investment impairment reviews by forecasting related deferred tax asset adjustment of 0.1m as a result of the cash flows based upon the following years budget as a base, taking restatements, increasing the loss after tax by 0.3m for the year into account current economic conditions.
The carrying amount of ended 31 December 2017. investments in subsidiaries at the balance sheet date was 443.2m 2017: 443.0m with no impairment loss recognised in 2018 or In addition, as part of the 2018 year end close, the Group corrected 2017.
Of the 443.2m net book value, 435m 2017: 435m relates its policy for accounting for future dilapidations costs on property to SIG Trading Limited, the largest UK trading subsidiary, and leases to account for the cost of reinstating capital modifications on therefore assumptions regarding sales, gross margin and operating inception of the lease instead of accruing costs over the life of the profit growth of this subsidiary are considered to be the key areas lease.
This gives rise to a prior period restatement, resulting in an of estimation in the impairment review process.
Appropriate increase to fixed assets of 0.2m and to provisions of 0.2m at 31 sensitivities in relation to this have been performed and disclosed in December 2017, with no impact to the Company Income Statement Note 5. for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Impairment of amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings Critical accounting judgements At 31 December 2018 the Group has recognised amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings of 866.4m 2017: 936.4m.
The Group and key sources of estimation recognises an allowance for expected credit losses ECLs in relation to amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings based on the ability uncertainty to repay amounts repayable on demand and whether there has been any significant change in credit risk.
Changes in the economic In the application of the Companys accounting policies, which are environment or circumstances specific to individual subsidiaries described above, the directors are required to make judgements could have an impact on the recoverability of amounts included on other than those involving estimates that have a significant impact the Company Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018. on the amounts recognised and to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not Deferred tax assets readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors probable that future taxable profits will be available against which that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from the asset can be utilised.
Therefore, estimates are made to establish these estimates.
whether deferred tax balances should be recognised, in particular in respect of non-trading losses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the change takes place if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
In the course of preparing the Financial Statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements, other than those involving estimations detailed below.
The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the assets and liabilities recognised by the Company within the next financial year are detailed below.
