Financial statements Group financial record Unaudited supplemental information Consolidated results Below is selected financial information for the Group under IFRS as at and for each of the five years ended 30 June.
2 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2018 are costs of 194 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 66 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group, costs of 23 million relating to advisory fees and share-based payments incurred as a result of offers for the Company, income of 21 million relating to regulatory related receipts and proceeds of settlements and costs of 278 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and related acquisition costs.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2017 are costs of 140 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 50 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group, costs of 56 million relating to advisory fees and share-based payments incurred as a result of the 21st Century Fox Offer and costs of 258 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2016 are costs of 4 million in relation to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, costs of 142 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 84 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group, costs of 343 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles and costs of 8 million relating to the remeasurement of derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2015 are costs of 50 million in relation to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, costs of 105 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 10 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group and costs of 231 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2014 are costs of 49 million relating to the integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, costs of 40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme, costs of 2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator and costs of 23 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
3 Wholesale customers are customers who take a package, from one of Skys Wholesale Partners, in which they receive at least one paid-for Sky channel.
Factors which materially affect the comparability of the selected financial data Basis of preparation Fiscal 2016 includes 53 weeks of trading compared with 52 weeks in all other years.
Discontinued operations During fiscal 2015, the Group sold a controlling stake in its online betting and gaming business.
Available-for-sale investment During fiscal 2018, the Group disposed of its investment in Roku Inc. During fiscal 2015, the Group disposed of its remaining investment in ITV.
Business combinations and profit on disposal of associate During fiscal 2015, the Group completed the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
The results of these acquisitions were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 12 November 2014.
As part of the consideration for the purchase of Sky Italia the Group disposed of its shareholding in the National Geographic channel.
Exchange rates A significant portion of the Groups liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of programming acquired from US film licensors together with set-top box costs are denominated in US dollars.
A significant portion of the Groups revenues and expenses associated with its operations in Germany and Austria and Italy are denominated in euros.
For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on the Groups financial condition and results of operations, see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
