Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent 1.
Accounting policies that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or the United Kingdom UK and registered in England and Wales.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-controlling interests a Statement of compliance Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the acquisition and the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the of the acquisition.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the nonStandards Board IASB.
controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The b Basis of preparation choice of measurement basis is made on an  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going basis.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial assets consideration paid or received and the amount by which the and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
The Group has non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
adopted the new accounting pronouncements which became effective this year, none of which had a significant impact on the Groups results or d Goodwill financial position.
Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2018, this date was 1 July 2018, acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2017: 2 July 2017, 52 week year.
recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated value cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identifiable financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the accounting period assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed.
as a year for reporting purposes.
Deferred consideration or contingent consideration often referred to as The Group has classified assets and liabilities as current when they are earnout agreements which are not linked to the future employment of expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the previous shareholders in the post-completion period are recognised as normal operating cycle of the Group.
part of the fair value of the consideration for the purchase of the business.
Movements in the fair value of the consideration outside of the first Adjusted measures, which are a type of alternative performance measure, year anniversary of the business purchase are recognised in the income disclosed in the consolidated financial statements exclude items that statement.
Consideration for the purchase of equity capital pertaining may distort comparability in order to provide a measure of underlying to non-controlling interests is presented in the financing activities of performance.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the cash flow statement.
the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Adjusted For those business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, measures are not defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups to similar measures used elsewhere.
Further details regarding the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting alternative performance measures are disclosed in the unaudited policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate supplemental information to the Groups financial statements on page 135. or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written c Basis of consolidation off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not i.
Subsidiaries reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved loss on disposal.
where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least direct the relevant activities that affect the Companys returns and annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in the investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested preparing the consolidated financial statements.
for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but not e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
Joint i. Intangible assets ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new total profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates and joint or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business is ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant influence recognised as an intangible asset from the point that the Group has the or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits from ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When the and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or Annual Report 2018 81
