Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent 1.
Accounting policies that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or the United Kingdom UK and registered in England and Wales.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and stated at subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-controlling interests a Statement of compliance Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the acquisition and the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the of the acquisition.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the nonStandards Board IASB.
controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The b Basis of preparation choice of measurement basis is made on an  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going basis.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial assets consideration paid or received and the amount by which the and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
The Group has non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
adopted the new accounting pronouncements which became effective this year, none of which had a significant impact on the Groups results or d Goodwill financial position.
Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2018, this date was 1 July 2018, acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2017: 2 July 2017, 52 week year.
recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated value cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identifiable financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the accounting period assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed.
as a year for reporting purposes.
Deferred consideration or contingent consideration often referred to as The Group has classified assets and liabilities as current when they are earnout agreements which are not linked to the future employment of expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the previous shareholders in the post-completion period are recognised as normal operating cycle of the Group.
part of the fair value of the consideration for the purchase of the business.
Movements in the fair value of the consideration outside of the first Adjusted measures, which are a type of alternative performance measure, year anniversary of the business purchase are recognised in the income disclosed in the consolidated financial statements exclude items that statement.
Consideration for the purchase of equity capital pertaining may distort comparability in order to provide a measure of underlying to non-controlling interests is presented in the financing activities of performance.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the cash flow statement.
the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Adjusted For those business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, measures are not defined terms under IFRS and may not be comparable goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups to similar measures used elsewhere.
Further details regarding the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting alternative performance measures are disclosed in the unaudited policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate supplemental information to the Groups financial statements on page 135. or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written c Basis of consolidation off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not i.
Subsidiaries reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain or Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved loss on disposal.
where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least direct the relevant activities that affect the Companys returns and annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in the investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested preparing the consolidated financial statements.
for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
Associates and joint ventures Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but not e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
Joint i. Intangible assets ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new total profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates and joint or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business is ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant influence recognised as an intangible asset from the point that the Group has the or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits from ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When the and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate or Annual Report 2018 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or 1.
Accounting policies continued production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a Other intangible assets which are acquired by the Group separately or substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are through a business combination are initially stated at cost or fair value, added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the Groups for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating expense general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is calculated based over the assets useful economic life in order to match the expected upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to the Group excluding the pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in interest on any borrowings specific to any qualifying assets.
applied to the expenditures on the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period to which they relate.
Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Trademarks 5 to 25 years straight-line over The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to licence period, as applicable fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives are held at Internally generated 3 to 5 years straight-line fair value from the date on which a derivative contract is entered into.
Fair intangible assets value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants Software development external 3 to 7 years straight-line at the measurement date under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
and software licences The Group calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment CVA or Acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships debit valuation adjustment DVA for each derivative based upon the Relating to the acquired customer 15 years straight-line basis net position for each counterparty relationship.
base in Germany and Austria The Group calculates the CVA where it has a net asset position using a Relating to the acquired customer 15 years straight-line basis quoted credit default swap curve for the counterparty and calculates the base in Italy DVA where it has a net liability position using an industry proxy credit Relating to acquired customer 3 to 12 years straight-line default swap curve for the Group.
The fair value of derivative financial bases in UK and Ireland instruments is calculated by discounting future cash flows with reference to the benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the relevant credit default Relating to other customer 8 to 25 years straight-line swap curve.
relationships in UK and Ireland Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly probable Other intangible assets 1 to 5 years straight-line forecast transactions hedged items, which meet qualifying criteria under For acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships, the IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are assets are amortised on either a reducing balance basis or on a straightdesignated as cash flow hedges.
Other derivatives which hedge changes line basis depending on which more accurately reflects the pattern of in fair value of fixed rate financial instruments and meet the requirements how future economic benefits will be consumed, as determined by the of IAS 39 are designated as fair value hedges.
Certain borrowings and estimated customer retention profile.
derivatives have been designated as net investment hedges of the Groups foreign operations for movements in the spot foreign exchange rate, see If the assets useful economic life is judged to be indefinite or the asset is section r for further details.
Certain other derivatives held by the Group not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an impairment do not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested as hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
fair values of these derivatives are recognised immediately in the income ii.
Property, plant and equipment statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any purposes.
impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When an item of PPE comprises i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting major components having different useful economic lives, the components Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised in the The costs of assets comprise the following, where applicable: hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option are designated Purchase price, including import duty and non-refundable purchase under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other movements being taxes, after probable trade discounts and rebates recorded immediately in the income statement.
Directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently recognised condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner in the income statement when the related hedged item is recognised in the intended by management, including relevant delivery and logistics costs income statement or in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations non-financial asset or liability on the balance sheet, again being recognised similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE in the income statement in the periods in which the related hedged items see accounting policy n. are recognised in the income statement.
At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed through a comparison of the The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item.
expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land and The ongoing effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed assets that are not yet available for use are not depreciated.
Principal using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging useful economic lives used for this purpose are: instruments being compared to the expected cash flows of the hedged Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years effective in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in Set-top boxes and routers 5 to 7 years future periods.
The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical derivative Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments being compared leasehold improvements useful economic life to those of the hypothetical derivative that would result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
82 Sky plc Financial statements The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the operating instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is deemed to expense line of the income statement, over the period the Group utilises be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
and consumes the programming rights, applying linear-broadcast and time-based methods of amortisation depending on the type of programme The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in right, taking into account the circumstances primarily as described below.
accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting These circumstances may change or evolve over time and, as such, the is suspended.
Group regularly reviews and updates the method used to recognise programming expense.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, Sports the majority or all of the cost is recognised in the income any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve at that time statement on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in the initial cost or other seasons or competitions, such rights are recognised principally on a carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability on the balance sheet straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Where the rights provided that the underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
When are packaged, sold and or significantly consumed over the off-season, a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain the Group allocates an appropriate portion of the total rights value to or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately recognised the off-season period, and that cost is recognised on a straight-line in the income statement and all future changes in the fair value of the basis over the off-season period.
cash flow hedging instruments are immediately recognised in the income News the cost is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Movies the cost is recognised in the income statement on a straightii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting line basis over the period for which the broadcast rights are licensed.
The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are General entertainment the cost relating to acquired, commissioned recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying values of the and produced programming rights for broadcast on the Groups linear underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in the fair value of the channels is recognised in the income statement on either an accelerated hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the income or straight-line basis.
The amortisation profile is principally based on the statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
expected value of each planned broadcast on the Groups linear channels and the time period over which the economic value of the content is Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of expected to be consumed and utilised.
Relicensed content is amortised the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged on a straight-line basis over the time period the rights are expected to be item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative counterparty.
The cost attributable or apportioned to non-linear on demand The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value hedges is rights is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period for which calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with those rights are licensed or over the time period the rights are expected movements in the fair value of the hedged item being compared to to be utilised.
movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a The Group regularly reviews its programming rights for impairment.
Where range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any relationship which programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the accounting is suspended.
programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, a write-down iii.
Embedded derivatives to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of inventory write-downs Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host are recognised as reductions in operating expense.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and ii.
Programme distribution rights characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in operating Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement during expense in line with the profile of expected revenue generation.
the period in which they arise.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment held for sale to customers g Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme rights for broadcast value that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost and related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated through the operating expense line of the income statement.
The cost of subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense inventory is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating the charged to the income statement to date.
Such programming rights are viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to view encrypted included as inventories when the legally enforceable licence period broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion of the commences and all of the following conditions have been met: a the installation process for new customers.
The amount recognised in the cost of each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the income statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, in programme material has been accepted by the Group in accordance with accordance with IAS 2 Inventories.
the conditions of the rights: and c the programme is available for its first showing.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale and third-party equipment and vouchers used in marketing Prior to being included in inventories, the programming rights are classified Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at the as television programme rights not yet available for transmission and not lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods recorded as inventories on the Groups balance sheet and are instead held for resale is recognised through the operating expense line of the disclosed as contractual commitments see note 26.
Payments made income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes are treated as prepayments in trade and other receivables.
Third-party equipment used for marketing purposes, such as televisions, tablets and consoles, and vouchers providing money off third-party goods and prepaid credit cards are recognised at purchase cost in inventory, and subsequently in operating expense on delivery to the customer.
Annual Report 2018 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued vi.
Accounting policies continued Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
h Financial assets and liabilities Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement or Directly attributable transaction costs are included in the initial redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis measurement of financial assets and liabilities only with respect to those in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added assets and liabilities that are not subsequently measured at fair value to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to which they relate, through profit and loss.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
whether there is any objective evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
i Impairment Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from the inventories see accounting policy g, assets classified as held-for-sale, balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows financial assets see accounting policy h and deferred taxation see expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of accounting policy o to determine whether there is any indication that the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Groups any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the cancelled or expires.
carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its i. Available-for-sale investments recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture or Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures and classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price, value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the fair value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at cost.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as available-for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are not reversible Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual through the income statement unless or until the investment is disposed asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating of, and are determined with reference to the closing market share price at unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in respect the date the impairment is observed.
Any subsequent increase in the fair of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired value will be of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will be unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the sale within the next 12 months, in which case they are included within recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and is current assets.
On disposal, the difference between the carrying amount only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of that had previously been recognised directly in reserves is recognised in depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
Trade and other receivables j Provisions Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal or or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is applicable, constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benefits as a result are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect of discounting is of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
Where discounting is material, trade and other receivables are recognised represent the Groups best estimate of the transfer of benefits measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
that will be required to settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the carrying value of trade Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is and other receivables for impairment losses identified from objective material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific to the evidence, with movements in the allowance account, either from increased liability.
impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Where the Groups ESOP purchases the Companys own equity shares, the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits cost of those shares, including any attributable transaction costs, is receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction in shareholders equity or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on in the consolidated financial statements.
demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management l Revenue recognition are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between Group iv.
Short-term deposits companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from the This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of more than Groups operating activities, and is measured at the fair value of the three months from inception.
These deposits are initially recognised at fair consideration received or receivable.
The Groups main sources of revenue value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement are recognised as follows: less any allowance for impairment losses.
Direct-to-consumer revenue includes subscription and transactional v. Trade and other payables revenue from residential and commercial customers.
Subscription Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are revenue includes revenue from residential and commercial subscribers measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade to TV, Mobile and home communication products, including over-the-top and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the OTT subscriptions, and income from set-top box, Mobile handset original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
and tablet sales, installation, service calls and warranties.
Revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, as the goods or services are provided.
Transactional revenue includes the purchase of physical 84 Sky plc Financial statements content, OTT passes, pay per view and buy to keep content.
Transactional except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods performance measures.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by the or service are provided.
Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period Content revenue includes revenue from the sale of channels and is recognised immediately in the income statement.
programmes across other platforms and internationally.
Channel sales revenue is recognised as the services are provided on a wholesale basis Deferred or contingent payments often referred to as earnout to cable and other retailers and is based on the number of subscribers agreements, arising in business combinations, which are linked to the taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable and other future employment of previous shareholders in the post-completion period, retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
Programme sales are recognised as employee remuneration costs in operating expense, revenue is earned from the production of programming and the whereby the expected fair value of subsequent payments is accrued in distribution of programming rights.
Production revenue is recognised on accordance with IAS 19.
Employee remuneration is presented in operating a stage of completion basis, where the stage of completion is determined activities in the cash flow statement.
by comparing the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total n Leases estimated cost of the transaction.
Distribution revenue is recognised Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease when the contract is signed and the final content has been delivered transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of for customer exploitation.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is Sub-lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts as an basis over the term of the lease.
agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net commission basis.
When the Group is a lessee A bundle exists where a customer enters into contracts for goods and Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at services at or around the same time, where the transaction can only be their fair value on the date of acquisition, or if lower, at the present value of understood commercially with reference to the bundle of goods and the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is services as a whole, and where there is price inter-dependency between included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments the products in a bundle.
Where a customer purchases further products are apportioned between finance charges and reductions to the lease or services subsequent to the original sale, these are judged to represent obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining contract modifications and are accounted for separately to the balance of the liability.
The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from the received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating leases are arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group When the Group is a lessor recognises for the delivered elements is limited to cannot exceed the cash Assets which are provided under operating lease arrangements are received or consideration receivable.
Discounts are allocated to products recognised as assets within property, plant and equipment.
The assets on a pro-rata basis according to relative fair values, except where there is remain in the economic ownership of the Group for the duration of the observable evidence that the discount relates to one or more, but not all, lease, and are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
o Taxation, including deferred taxation m Employee benefits The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in the income enacted at the balance sheet date.
statement as the employees services are rendered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance Where the Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Taxable schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that year.
The temporary differences arising from goodwill and, except in a business assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group.
Liabilities in combination, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither relation to employee obligations which are economically similar to defined accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax benefit pension schemes are accounted for as such under IAS 19. liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
employees which are measured at fair value and recognised as an expense The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable to be values of these payments are measured at the dates of grant using realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is option-pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the which the awards are granted.
The fair value is recognised over the period liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards, are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will be statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly forfeited, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
due to non-market-based performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, Annual Report 2018 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued These new pronouncements are listed below.
Accounting policies continued evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally and interpretations in future periods.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments effective 1 January 2018 and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advanced Consideration net basis.
effective 1 January 2018 p Distributions to equity shareholders Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance contracts effective 1 January 2018 Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year in Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Properties effective 1 January 2018 which they are declared.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts effective 1 January 2021 The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the nominal IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective 1 January cost of shares repurchased is deducted from share capital and a matching 2019 credit is recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Long term interests effective 1 January 2019 q Earnings per share Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 effective 1 January attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by the 2019 weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits Plan amendment, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by Curtailment or Settlement effective 1 January 2019 and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards effective 1 January 2020 Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to the weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic IFRS 9 effective 1 January 2019 earnings, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective on the from share options where the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
r Foreign currency translation IFRS 15 provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the to all contracts with customers: functional currency of the entity at applicable monthly exchange rates.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign Identify the contract with the customer currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange Identify the performance obligations in the contract, introducing the at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign new concept of distinct currencies are translated to the functional currency of the entity at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and Determine the transaction price losses from the retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the net in profit for the year.
contracts, on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Assets and Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies its performance liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates obligations prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange IFRS 15 also introduces new guidance on, amongst other areas, combining differences arising are classified as equity within the foreign currency contracts, discounts, variable consideration, contract modifications and translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the requires that certain costs incurred in obtaining and fulfilling customer acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the contracts be deferred on the balance sheet and amortised over the period foreign operation and translated accordingly.
Gains and losses accumulated an entity expects to benefit from the customer relationship.
in the foreign currency translation reserve are included in the income When IFRS 15 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in Gains and losses on those instruments designated as hedges of the net the financial statements, or with the cumulative impact of IFRS 15 applied investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: when the latter that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are recognised in approach is applied, it is necessary to disclose the impact of IFRS 15 the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting period.
hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement The Group has determined that it will adopt IFRS 15 on a modified for the period.
The Group has also determined that the results of its segments will exclude IFRS 15, on the basis that the Group will continue to s Reportable segments be managed internally using the Groups current cash-led accounting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information presented policies, for both revenue and cost.
In line with the modified retrospective in the financial statements to be that which is used internally by the chief adoption approach, the Group will also present its consolidated group operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business and result under both IFRS 15 and its existing accounting policies.
decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief operating decision maker and the segment In the current year, management has concluded a detailed accounting information presented in the financial statements is consistent with scoping analysis across each of the Groups operating segments and across the internal reporting reviewed by the Board.
the products and services within the Groups revenue streams, the results of which are summarised below.
Management has also determined and t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing developed implementation approaches for each revenue stream based on standards that are not yet effective the potential materiality, complexity and volatility of impacts, utilising a The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and mixture of system led and manually derived estimates, as appropriate interpretations to existing standards, which have been published but are given the specific nature of IFRS 15 adjustments identified.
only effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2018.
86 Sky plc Financial statements Overall, IFRS 15 is expected to result in the recognition of a material new The Group will apply IFRS 9s new provisioning model to newly recognised contract asset and a material new asset pertaining to the costs of contract assets, such that an allowance account will be set-up against obtaining customer contracts.
Material year-on-year changes to revenue, the contract asset at inception, to represent the effect of anticipated operating profit and profit before tax are not anticipated.
However, customer churn within the minimum contract period.
The recognition significant and potentially volatile changes in these statutory measures of the new allowance account is expected to decrease the net contract are foreseeable, depending on the specific volume, value and mix of trading receivable recognised at any point in time, with the corresponding activity in a given period.
impact being incurred in operating expense.
At the time of finalising and approving the Group financial statements in Across the Group, the cumulative net contract asset recognised as at July 2018, the Group remains in the process of calculating, reviewing and 30 June 2018 on transition, resulting from the accounting changes to validating the IFRS 15 transition impacts in order to derive the consolidated subscription revenues discussed above, is expected to be in the order Group balance sheet under IFRS 15, as at 30 June 2018.
further direction on expected impacts pre-tax is provided below.
Cohorts of costs to obtain customer contracts have been identified Direct-to-consumer revenue Subscription that will require capitalisation under IFRS 15, pertaining to certain sales The Groups revenue recognition for bundled subscription products commissions and incentives payable to Sky employees and third-party will no longer be limited to the consideration receivable for a delivered agencies, as well as certain online display costs.
As a result, the Group will bring forward revenue for distinct The costs will be amortised over the period the Group expects to benefit products and services delivered at the start of a subscription contract, from the new customer relationship, compared to being expensed as where the price charged for those performance obligations is lower incurred currently.
Depending on the facts and circumstances of each than the stand-alone selling price.
This will correspondingly reduce territory, accelerated or straight-line methods of amortisation are subsequent subscription revenue across the remainder of the customer anticipated, with a resulting amortisation period of 5 years.
contract, but will not change revenue recognised in total or the amount or timing of associated cash flows.
Specifically: Across the Group, the cumulative cost to obtain customer contracts recognised as at 30 June 2018 on transition, is expected to be in the order Revenue will be brought forward and a contract asset recognised for of 350 million.
the installation of Sky TV and Fibre Broadband services, resulting in higher initial revenue and lower subsequent subscription revenues Transactional than our current accounting policy No significant impacts in the recognition of transactional revenues related costs have been identified, compared to current accounting Revenue will be brought forward and a contract asset recognised on treatments delivery of equipment which is owned by the customer, such as certain set-top boxes or broadband routers, resulting in higher initial revenue Advertising and lower subsequent subscription revenues than our current No significant changes in the recognition of advertising revenues have accounting policy been identified, which are anticipated to be recognised as the advertising campaigns or impressions are delivered over time, in line with current Revenue will now be allocated to third party equipment and vouchers treatments included within customer bundles for marketing and customer acquisition purposes.
As a result, revenue will be brought forward No significant changes to existing principal versus agent judgements resulting in a contract asset being recognised, compared to our have been identified, compared to current accounting treatments.
current treatment of recognising a cost upfront on delivery of the No significant impacts in cost recognition have been identified, marketing offer compared to current accounting treatments Where product or service discounts reduce the total consideration for Content Channel a customers bundle, these will be allocated to all distinct performance No significant changes in the recognition of channel wholesale revenues obligations in the bundle.
The impact of discounts will be spread over or in cost recognition have been identified, compared to current the minimum contract period.
Currently, discounts reduce revenue accounting treatments over the offer period, rather than over the minimum contract period.
It is anticipated that channel revenue will be recognised over time as the Discounts will also be allocated to all distinct performance obligations service is delivered in the customer bundle on a pro-rata basis.
This will reduce the revenue recognised upfront or brought forward, for upfront delivery.
Content Programming Distribution: It is anticipated that revenue will be recognised on the Certain upfront fees relating to separately identifiable deliverables, but control of the final programming being transferred to the customer, which are concluded not to pertain to distinct performance obligations rather than on risks and rewards being transferred, as currently.
under IFRS 15 requirements, will result in revenue being deferred As a result, it is anticipated that distribution revenues will be recognised compared to our current accounting treatments.
on licence period commencement, deferring revenues compared to Certain propositions are concluded to be within the scope of the new our current accounting treatment.
On transition, the balance sheet repurchase agreement and right of return guidance in IFRS 15.
As a impact is expected in the range of nil to 5 million result, Sky anticipates deferring a portion of upfront revenues and also a Production: It is anticipated that revenue will be recognised on control portion of upfront cost, to represent its best estimate of the expected of the final programming being transferred to the customer at a point value of the assets it anticipates repurchasing from customers, in time, as opposed to being recognised on a stage of completion basis compared to its current accounting treatment of recognising total over time, as currently, deferring revenue and cost compared to current revenue and cost on delivery to the customer.
On transition, the balance sheet impact is The accounting for contract modifications not made at stand-alone sales expected in the range of 5-15 million price will differ compared to current accounting treatments of recognising all contract modifications as separate contracts on a prospective basis.
This is anticipated to accelerate the amortisation of a given contract asset through revenue, potentially resulting in contract liabilities at certain points of the customers minimum subscription period.
The overall effect of this is anticipated to reduce the quantum of contract asset recognised on balance sheet, at any point in time.
Annual Report 2018 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued u Critical accounting policies and judgements and key sources 1.
Accounting policies continued of estimation uncertainty IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
An Recognition and Measurement and is effective on the Group from accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors judgement, 1 July 2018 onwards.
its selection or application materially affects the Groups financial position or results.
The application of the Groups accounting policies also requires The areas which impact the Group relate to the recognition of impairment the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the Groups financial provisions for customer receivables and other financial assets and the position or results.
IFRS 9 also contains new rules relating to hedge accounting, although the adoption of these is not Below is a summary of areas in which estimation is applied primarily mandatory and the Group will continue to apply IAS 39 hedge accounting in the context of applying critical accounting policies and judgements.
Critical accounting policies and judgements With respect to impairment provisions, IFRS 9 introduces a model based on i.
Revenue see note 2 expected credit loss.
This requires a provision to be made for impairment Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be from the initial point at which the receivable is recognised, compared to IAS recognised requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair value 39 which requires a provision to be made only when a loss event occurs.
The of consideration before it is received.
Judgement is required in determining IFRS 9 credit loss model is not expected to have a material impact on either which products constitute a bundle, and how revenue is allocated to the Groups balance sheet position or income statement result.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation IFRS 9 requires certain of the Groups trade receivables to be measured at service and TV, home communications and or mobile subscriptions in one fair value, as opposed to amortised cost.
The balance sheet impact of this bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is is expected to be less than 2 million.
allocated to each element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor-specific or third-party IFRS 9 requires all available-for-sale investments to be held on the balance evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for the delivered sheet at fair value, with associated movements incurred in either the elements is limited to the cash received or consideration receivable, which income statement or in equity reserves, as an accounting policy choice.
is not contingent on the delivery of additional goods or services.
The balance sheet impact on transition is expected to be less than 15 million.
Discounts are allocated to products on a pro-rata basis according to IFRS 9 requires that amounts recognised in non-financial assets basis relative fair values, except where there is observable evidence that the adjustment are removed directly from reserves, rather than being released discount relates to one or more, but not all, products within the bundle, through other comprehensive income as is currently allowed under IAS 39. so as to faithfully represent the commercial substance of the transaction.
IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 and is effective on the Group Mobile handset and tablet revenues are recognised upfront on delivery to from 1 July 2019 onwards.
The Sky Mobile proposition includes an option whereby the When IFRS 16 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective customer can sell their handset to Sky at a preset market price.
This basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in requires the application of judgement in assessing whether or not the the financial statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact of customers option is on-market, taking into account the expected future IFRS 16 applied as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: when resale value of the equipment.
If the option is concluded to be on-market, the latter approach is applied it is necessary to disclose the impact of IFRS the Group recognises handset and tablet revenue on delivery, and any 16 on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting period.
future purchases of customer handsets or tablets at the time of purchase, Depending on the adoption method that is utilised, certain practical as inventory.
expedients may be applied on adoption.
The Group has not yet determined ii.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 7 and 15 which method it will adopt.
The Groups total tax charge is the sum of the current and deferred tax IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and will primarily change lease accounting charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves for lessees: lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is expected to be similar to a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose lease accounting under IAS 17.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 will be tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been similar in many respects to existing IAS 17 accounting for finance leases, reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal but is expected to be substantively different to existing accounting for legal process.
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements Where a contract meets IFRS 16s definition of a lease, lease agreements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
Amounts will give rise to the recognition of a non-current asset representing the right provided are based on managements interpretation of applicable tax law to use the leased item, and a loan obligation for future lease payables.
and the likelihood of settlement and include any liability for interest and penalties.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax Lease costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right to use positions will be sustained.
Once considered to be probable, management asset and interest on the lease liability, which may impact the phasing of reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be operating profit and profit before tax, compared to existing cost profiles taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely and presentation in the income statement, and will also impact the resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
The amounts classification of associated cash flows.
recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of each The detailed assessment of the impact on the Group is ongoing, with the matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement, as current focus being on assessing of the completeness of lease contracts.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution could differ from the The adoption is expected to have a material impact on the presentation provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an of the Groups assets and liabilities, mainly relating to significant property adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact leases.
Due to the quantity of contracts under review, management has on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
There is a reasonable not completed the impact assessment of the new accounting standard, possibility that an overseas tax matter will be resolved within the next 12 and therefore a quantification of the impact on the Groups results cannot months.
A resolution in favour of the Group would result in a reduction currently be reliably estimated.
of up to 48 million in the liability recognised as at 30 June 2018. not yet endorsed for use in the EU 88 Sky plc Financial statements The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement factors: of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet The frequency with which, and the time period over which, the date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that programme is expected to be utilised on the Groups linear channels and there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred tax non-linear services.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual assets can be utilised.
Specifically, the Group has a gross deferred tax asset period specified in the contract for the programme rights, an initial relating to unused tax losses in Sky Deutschland of 805 million 2017: 727 expectation of when airings will be scheduled and the alternative million, which is recognised net of the deferred tax liabilities principally programming available to the Group within this period.
Linear rights arising from the fair value of acquired customer contracts in Sky are consumed as and when the programmes are broadcast: non-linear Deutschland resulting in a net deferred tax asset for Sky Deutschland rights are consumed over the period the programme is made available.
of 401 million 2017: 296 million, as described in note 15.
Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to iii.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment achieve for each individual broadcast on the Groups linear channels over see notes 11 and 12 the contractual broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast The assessment of the useful economic lives and the method of amortising directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this these assets requires judgement.
Depreciation and amortisation are consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the charged to the income statement based on the useful economic life potential impact of the publicly available information on its competitors selected, which requires an estimation of the period and profile over which scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
the Group expects to consume the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
The Group reviews its useful economic lives on at least an The potential benefits associated with utilising programming.
high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to the Group, as they attract new TV customers and encourage retention Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any of existing TV customers, which directly influences subscription revenues.
indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication of As such, these programmes are able to retain more value throughout impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether their licence period than would be indicated when considering the the carrying amount can be supported by, for example, the net present expected customer viewing and consumption numbers alone.
value of future cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash flow projections and selecting the appropriate The relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear rights is discount rate, where applicable.
assessed based on the manner in which the Group expects to utilise the programming rights and the relative value perceived by customers for Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial capitalisation the Groups channels and services.
Those relative values may also differ requires judgement.
This requires a determination of whether the assets based on the type and genre of programme.
Such values are reviewed will result in future benefits to the Group.
In particular, internally generated by the Group against current and expected future trends in customer intangible assets must be assessed during the development phase to viewing behaviour for the Groups programming and channels.
The value identify whether the Group has the ability and intention to complete apportioned to non-linear rights in addition to any separately acquired the development successfully.
non-linear rights is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of Determining the costs of assets to be capitalised requires judgement.
the broadcast rights, as the Group considers this to be the profile most Specifically, judgement and estimation is required in determining the closely aligned to its consumption of those rights.
A broadcast-based amount of duties and non-refundable taxes, probable trade discounts and amortisation model is not relevant or appropriate for this type of right rebates, and directly attributable costs to bring the asset to the location as the Group makes the programmes available for a period of time and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner rather than for a specified number of broadcasts.
intended by management including relevant delivery and logistics costs Sports rights off-season allocation to the customers premises to be allocated to the asset.
The majority or all of sports right cost is recognised in the income iv.
Programming inventory for broadcast see note 16 statement on first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons The key areas of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast that or competitions, principally on a straight-line basis across the seasons or require judgement are the assessment of the appropriate profile over competitions.
Where the rights are packaged, sold and or significantly which to amortise general entertainment programming, and the proportion consumed over the off-season, the Group also allocates an appropriate of sports rights cost which should be allocated to an off-season period.
portion of the total rights value to the off-season period, and that cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the off-season period.
General entertainment programming The general entertainment programming assessment requires the Group Judgement is therefore required in determining how the Group utilises and to form an expectation of: consumes sports rights during the off-season.
In forming this judgement, it considers the hours expected to be scheduled in the off-season, viewing the number of times a programme will be broadcast on the Groups linear expected to be achieved in the off-season, subscriber profiles over the channels, and the time period over which the programme is expected to off-season, as well as other qualitative considerations.
be utilised: During the current year, the Groups pay TV business in the UK and Ireland the relative value associated with each broadcast: and repackaged its sport channel proposition, resulting in new sport-specific the relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear channels being retailed to the customer, which are consumed throughout programme rights.
Linear channel rights refer to the rights to broadcast the year.
As a result, a portion of total rights value has been allocated to a programme on the Groups linear broadcast channels and non-linear the off-season period, and will be recognised on a straight-line basis over rights refer to the rights to make a programme available on the Groups the off-season period.
This change in accounting estimate has resulted on demand services.
in a reduction in programming expense of 35 million in the year.
Annual Report 2018 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Key sources of estimation uncertainty 1.
Accounting policies continued Areas for which there are major sources of estimation uncertainty at the v. Mobile handset financing see note 20 reporting period end as defined by IAS 1, that have a significant risk of During the year, the Group entered into a securitisation facility with a third causing a material adjustment to be made to the carrying value amounts party for the sale of mobile handset receivables.
The Group does not have of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
control over the securitisation entity, and has transferred substantially all By contrast, areas where estimation is applied primarily in the context of the risks and rewards of the receivables.
applying critical accounting policies and judgements, have been discussed As a result, the receivables have been derecognised and the securitisation in the preceding section above.
entity is not consolidated within the Groups financial statements, such vi.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets that the transfer of handset receivables is treated as a sale.
The recognition of deferred tax assets is contingent on the Groups The Group applies judgement in its assessment of the derecognition of estimation of the future taxable income, particularly that of Sky handset trade receivables on a cohort-by-cohort basis, taking into account Deutschland.
This estimation is supported by the Groups latest available its best estimate of expected credit losses and expected volatility of credit medium term plan, which was considered by the Companys Board of losses.
In doing so, it considers historical credit losses and volatility incurred Directors, and extrapolated beyond the forecast period as disclosed in with respect to other Sky products and services, as well as external note 15.
Given the nature of Sky Deutschlands subscription-based benchmarks.
As a result of the discount applied and the securitisation business model, management has sufficient confidence in its ability to entitys investment structure, c90-95% of expected losses and variability execute and realise these plans.
A consistent set of forecasts is used as in losses is expected to be transferred.
the basis for assessing the carrying value of deferred tax assets with that used in the Groups annual impairment review of goodwill associated The Group also applies judgement in its assessment of whether it controls with Sky Deutschland, as described in note 1 and note 10. the securitisation entity, to determine whether it should be consolidated within the Group financial statements.
In doing so, it considers whether As such, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is sensitive to the the Group has power over the entity, exposure or rights to variable returns method, assumptions and estimates underlying the calculations.
We from its involvement with the entity, and the ability to use its power over consider the sensitivity of the outcome to plausible changes in key inputs, the entity to affect the level of those returns, as set out in the as part of our assessments.
Uncertainty around key sources of estimation requirements of IFRS 10. will be resolved through the passage of time, as future performance materialises and latest forecasts are considered.
The Groups power over the securitisation entity has been considered with respect to decisions relating to the transfer of receivables, the servicing of those receivables and risk management of the entity.
The Groups exposure or rights to variable returns from the securitisation entity has been considered with respect to the level of fees earned and the nature of any investment which the Group holds in the entity.
The Groups ability to use its power to affect the level of those returns has been considered taking into account the degree to which the Group benefits from any upside performance and its residual exposure to downside performance.
As a result of this evaluation, it was determined that the Group does not have control over the securitisation entity.
Further information on the handset financing structure, including disclosures required under IFRS 12 regarding non-consolidated securitisation entities, and also under IFRS 7 regarding the derecognition of financial assets where the Group has continuing involvement, can be found in note 20.
