Financial Statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A.
REFERENCE INFORMATION The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements relate to Sirius Minerals Plc, a publicly traded company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The registered address is 3rd Floor, Greener House, 68 Haymarket, London SW1Y 4RF.
These financial statements present the results of the Company as an individual entity and are prepared on the going concern basis, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as detailed in note 1 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under the standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of comparative information in respect of share capital, presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective and related party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are provided in the consolidated Group financial statements within this Annual Report.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and financial liabilities principally derivatives stated at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all years presented.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling rounded to the nearest million, which is the functional currency of the Company.
The going concern assumption has been adopted in the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
As explained within note 1 tothe consolidated financial statements, the Group and Companys ability to continue operating is dependent upon the successful outcome of the US$400 million equity issuance and the stage 2 financing.
The risk that a successful outcome may not be reached represents a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt upon the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
As explained in note 1, based on the current likelihood of the success of the US$400 million equity issuance and the stage 2 financing, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys financial statements.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies which have been applied by the Company when preparing the financial statements are in accordance with FRS101.
FRS 101 is based on the recognition and measurement requirements of EU-adopted IFRS, under which the consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared.
As a result, the accounting policies of the Company are consistent with those used and disclosed in the consolidated Group financial statements, except for the policy relating to investments in subsidiaries, which is detailed innote D. NEW AND AMENDED ACCOUNTING POLICIES ADOPTED BY THE COMPANY IFRS 9 The Company adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 further information about this accounting standard is provided in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
At that date the Company elected to apply the transition exemption available within IFRS 9 to not restate balances reported for prior years.
The only material impact of transitioning from valuing financial instruments under the measurement principles set out in IFRS 9 compared to those stipulated by IAS 39 has been the requirement to recognise an expected credit loss ECL provision in relation to the Companys loans to subsidiaries.
IFRS 9s ECL measurment requirments require a provision to be recognised based on a probability-weighted statistical likelihood of any default occurring, even though the Company continues to expect that the book value of all loans are likely to be repaid in full.
The impact of the recognition of the ECL provision in respect of loans to subsidiaries at 1 January 2018 has resulted in an increase in the value of accumulated losses of 21.4 million, which has been recognised as an adjustment through the statement of changes in equity at that date.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The most significant estimates and judgements relevant to the Companys financial statements are broadly the same as those for the consolidated Group financial statements as detailed in note 1.
In addition, the estimation of the value of the ECL provision recognised in respect of loans to certain subsidiaries as detailed in note F represents a significant estimate.
Identifying the appropriate value of the provision requires significant estimation as it is based on the Companys subjective assessment of hypothetical credit outcomes of the loans.
A one percentage point increase decrease in the estimated chance of a full impairment of the loans would result in an increase decrease in the provision and expense recorded during the year of 5 million.
Should the Groups stage 2 financing reach a succcessful outcome, the value of the provision assoicated with the loans outstanding at 31 December 2018 would be expected to decrease by a material amount, with the associated reduction to be reported as a gain through the income statement by the Company during 2019.
124 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information B.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT The Company has not presented its own income statement or statement of comprehensive income as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The loss for the Company for the year was 23.0 million 2017: loss of 74.7 million.
Included in the Companys profit and loss account is a charge of 109,000 2017: 95,000 in respect of the Companys audit fee.
C. STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS 2018 2017 Number Number Average monthly number of staff including Directors 32 33 m m Wages and salaries 4.6 4.7 Social security costs 0.7 0.7 Share-based payments 0.9 0.6 Total staff costs 6.2 6.0 Detailed information concerning Directors remuneration, interests and options is shown in the table within the Directors Remuneration Report which is subject to audit on pages 61 to 81 and which forms part of the Annual Report.
Details on key management compensation is contained within note 21 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
D. INVESTMENTS Investments are initially stated at cost.
Investments are tested for impairment when an indication of impairment becomes apparent.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or is not supported by the discounted future cash flows from the investment.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings intheCompany is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investments in , with a corresponding credit to equity.
2018 2017 Net book value of investments in subsidiaries m m At 1 January 249.6 81.8 Additions 73.8 171.1 Impairments recognised 8.5 3.3 Impairments reversed 3.3 At 31 December 318.2 249.6 Disclosure of the Companys subsidiaries is given in note 26 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
The value of the investments is supported by the projected discounted cash flows of the subsidiaries which are based on the Groups most recent financial projections.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 125 Financial Statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED E. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2018 2017 m m Hancock equity investment derivative 2.5 10.0 Convertible loans conversion derivative 25.6 48.5 Total derivative financial liabilities 28.1 58.5 The Hancock equity investment derivative liability is the same as that disclosed in note 17 of the consolidated Group financialstatements.
The convertible loans conversion derivative is effectively identical to that disclosed in note 16 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
Further disclosures in relation to these derivatives are included within note 24 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
F. LOANS TO SUBSIDIARIES All loans to subsidiaries do not bear interest, are unsecured and are repayable on demand.
The total value of loans to subsidiaries reported by the Company at 31 December 2018 on its statement of financial position of 811.7 million is stated net of ECL provisions of 44.7 million.
The value of loans to subsidiaries reported at 31 December 2017 of 519.3 million contained no provision under the measurement requirements of IAS 39 as the Company believed them to be fully recoverable, however upon transition to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 a provision of 21.4 million was recognised, as discussed in note A, with an associated charge being made directly to accumulated losses.
The increase in the ECL provision during 2018 of 23.3 million has been charged as an expense to the income statement of the Company in the year, with the increase in the provision being principally due to the advancement of additional loans to certain subsidiaries during the year.
G. LOANS FROM SUBSIDIARIES 2018 2017 m m Loan from Sirius Minerals Finance Limited 193.2 249.6 Other loans from subsidiaries 467.7 375.8 Total loans from subsidiaries 660.9 625.4 An intercompany loan is in place from Sirius Minerals Finance Limited SMF to the Company for the gross proceeds of the US$400 million convertible loans.
The terms of the intercompany loan mirror the terms of the external convertible loans detailed in note 16 to the consolidated Group financial statements.
The liability recognised by the Company in its own financial statements reflects the principal amount of all loans, allaccrued interest and the gross value of all make-whole payments potentially payable.
The intercompany loan has a stated interest rateof 8.5% payable on the outstanding par value of all unredeemed convertible loans held by SMF.
Upon any conversion of the US$400 million convertible loans, the Company will receive a redeemable preference share in SMF from external loanholders in exchange for issuing those loanholders ordinary shares in the Company.
These redeemable preference shares are generally redeemed on the day of issuance against the intercompany loan, meaning that the gross intercompany liability faced by the Company continues to mirror the gross contractual liability that the Group hasto external bondholders at each point in time.
All other loans from subsidiaries do not bear interest, are unsecured and are repayable on demand.
H. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The total charge for the year in respect of share-based remuneration schemes was 0.9 million 2017: 0.6 million.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to the share-based payment reserve.
The key elements of each scheme, along with the assumptions employed to arrive at the charge in the profit and loss account, are set out in note 13 to the consolidated Group financial statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under FRS 101 from disclosing transactions with other Group undertakings.
Information on the Group can be found in note 26 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
There were no other related party transactions during the year other than those already disclosed in note 21 of the consolidated Group financial statements.
126 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
