Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors responsibility statement financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent 2.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
face: and In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: 3.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary properly select and apply accounting policies: for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that business model and strategy.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and 25 July 2018 and Chief Financial Officer 25 July 2018 make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
