127 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION Taxation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of 121m Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International FY2017: 129m relating to losses and 67m FY2017: 112m Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial relating to the John Crane, Inc. and Titeflex Corporation litigation Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as provisions.
The recognition of assets pertaining to these items adopted by the European Union, on a going concern basis and under involves judgement by management as to the likelihood of realisation the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of of these deferred tax assets.
This is based on a number of factors, certain financial instruments, share options and pension assets and which seek to assess the expectation that the benefit of these assets liabilities, held at fair value as described below.
will be realised, including expected future levels of operating profit, expenditure on litigation, pension contributions and the timing of the The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the unwind of other tax positions.
It has been concluded that there are previous financial year.
sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
A 5% reduction in expected future operating profits would reduce SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS, KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND ESTIMATES the level of deferred tax recognised by 1m FY2017: 8m, and a The preparation of the accounts in conformity with generally 5% increase in expected future operating profits would increase accepted accounting principles requires management to make the level of deferred tax recognised by 7m FY2017: 11m.
Further estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts detail on the Groups deferred taxation position is included in note 6. of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of Retirement benefits revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, may differ from these estimates.
The key judgements, estimates and and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
The costs and the assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend out below.
on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate Revenue recognition the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses previous The timing of revenue recognition on contracts depends on the experience and independent actuarial advice to select the values of assessed stage of completion of contract activity at the balance critical estimates.
The estimates, and the effect of variances in key sheet date.
This assessment requires the expected total contract estimates, are disclosed in note 8. revenues and costs to be estimated based on the current progress of At 31 July 2018 there is a retirement benefit asset of 526m the contract.
Revenue of 24m FY2017: 24m has been recognised FY2017: 390m, principally relating to UK schemes, which arises in the period in respect of contracts in progress at the period end from the rights of the employers to recover the surplus at the end with a total expected value of 63m FY2017: 48m and cumulative of the life of the scheme.
If the pension schemes were wound up revenue recognised to date of 44m FY2017: 36m.
A 5% reduction while they still had members, the schemes would need to buy out in the proportion of the contract activity recognised in the current the benefits of all members.
The buyouts would cost significantly period would have reduced operating profit by less than 1m for both more than the present value of the scheme liabilities calculated Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect FY2017: less than 1m.
in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benefits.
Smiths Detection also has multi-year contractual arrangements for the sale of goods and services.
Where these contracts have Receivables provisions separately identifiable components with distinct patterns of delivery If the carrying value of any receivable is higher than the fair value, and customer acceptance, revenue is accounted for separately the Group makes provisions writing down the balance to its fair for each identifiable component.
Judgement is applied in the value.
The fair value of receivables is considered individually for identification of the components of the contract, and the allocation of each customer and incorporates past experience and progress with contract revenue to each component.
Smiths Medical has rebate arrangements in place with some At 31 July 2018 the gross value of receivables partly provided for distributors in respect of sales to end customers where sales prices or more than three months overdue was 70m FY2017: 73m have been negotiated by Smiths Medical.
Rebates are estimated and there were provisions of 32m FY2017: 33m against these based on the level of discount derived from sales data from receivables.
Consequently, these receivables were carried at a net distributors, the amount of inventory held by distributors and the value of 38m FY2017: 40m.
See note 14 for disclosures on credit time lag between the initial sale to the distributor and the rebate risk and ageing of trade receivables.
The rebate accrual at 31 July 2018 was 32m FY2017: 27m.
Inventory provisions The calculation of inventory provisions requires judgement by Contract profitability management of the expected value of future sales.
If the carrying Smiths Detection has multi-year contractual arrangements for the value of inventory is higher than the expected recoverable value, sale of goods and services.
Margins achieved on these contracts the Group makes provisions writing inventory down to its net can reflect the impact of commercial decisions made in different recoverable value.
Inventory is initially assessed for impairment by economic circumstances.
In addition, contract delivery is subject to comparing inventory levels to recent utilisation rates and carrying commercial and technical risks which can affect the outcome of the values to historical selling prices.
A detailed review is completed for contract.
inventory lines identified in the initial assessment considering sales At 31 July 2018 and 2017 no other contracts had been assessed as activity, order flow, customer contracts and current selling prices.
at significant risk of becoming onerous and no provision was held At 31 July 2018, there were provisions of 54m FY2017: 55m against onerous contracts.
See note 13 for a breakdown of inventory.
128 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED A 10% increase in the proportion of raw materials provided for would JCI takes account of the advice of an expert in asbestos liability increase the provision by 17m FY2017: 17m and a 10% increase estimation in quantifying the expected costs.
The following in the proportion of finished goods provided for would increase the judgements were made in preparing the provision calculation: provision by 23m FY2017: 22m.
the period over which the expenditure can be reliably estimated is judged to be ten years, based on past experience regarding Capitalisation of development costs significant changes in the litigation environment that have Expenditure incurred in the development of major new products is occurred every few years and on the amount of time taken capitalised as internally generated intangible assets only when strict in the past for some of those changes to impact the broader criteria are met, specifically in relation to the products' technical asbestos litigation environment.
See note 22 for a sensitivity feasibility and probable future economic benefits.
The carrying value showing the impact on the provision of reducing or increasing of intangible assets are amortised over their expected useful lives, this time horizon: commencing in the year that sales are first made.
the future trend of legal costs: the rate of future claims filed: the rate of successful resolution of claims: and the average amount The assessment of the future viability and technical feasibility of of judgments awarded have been projected based on the past development projects and the determination of the underlying history of JCI claims and well-established tables of asbestos products' useful economic life and amortisation basis require incidence projections, since this is the best available evidence.
significant judgement and the use of assumptions and estimates.
Claims history from other defendants is not used to calculate the provision because JCIs defence strategy generates a significantly Impairment different pattern of legal costs and settlement expenses.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and other assets, See note 22 for a sensitivity showing the range of expected including capitalised development costs and intangible assets future spend.
acquired in business combinations, are tested if there are any indications of impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the Flex-Tek set out below.
division, has received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage The recoverable amounts of cash generating units and assets are allegedly caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas determined based on value in use calculations unless future trading piping product.
It has also received a number of product liability projections cannot be adjusted to eliminate the impact of a major claims regarding this product, some in the form of purported class restructuring.
The value in use calculations require the use of actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes that its products are a safe assumptions and estimates including projected future cash-flows and effective means of delivering gas when installed in accordance and other future events.
with the manufacturers instructions and local and national codes: however some claims have been settled on an individual basis Provisions for liabilities and charges without admission of liability.
Provision of 78m FY2017: 84m Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation has been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable in respect of these claims.
In preparing the provision calculation, that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be judgements were made about the impact of safe installation required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made initiatives on the level of future claims.
See note 22 for a sensitivity of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or showing the impact on the provision of reducing or increasing the all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance expected impact.
However, because of the significant uncertainty contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but associated with the future level of claims, there can be no guarantee only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
Non-headline and legacy provisions John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of the Group, is one of many coTrading provisions defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured The Group has on occasion been required to take legal action which contained asbestos.
Provision of 223m FY2017: 237m has to protect its intellectual property and other rights against been made for the future defence costs which the Group is expected infringement.
It has also had to defend itself against proceedings to incur and the expected costs of future adverse judgments brought by other parties, including product liability and insurance against JCI.
Whilst well-established incidence curves can be used subrogation claims.
Provision is made for any expected costs to estimate the likely future pattern of asbestos-related disease, and liabilities in relation to these proceedings where appropriate, JCIs claims experience is significantly impacted by other factors though there can be no guarantee that such provisions which which influence the US litigation environment.
These can include: may be subject to potentially material revision from time to time changing approaches on the part of the plaintiffs bar: changing will accurately predict the actual costs and liabilities that may be attitudes amongst the judiciary at both trial and appellate levels: incurred.
and legislative and procedural changes in both the state and federal All provisions may be subject to potentially material revisions court systems.
Therefore, because of the significant uncertainty from time to time if new information becomes available as a result associated with the future level of asbestos claims and of the costs of future events.
arising out of the related litigation, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
129 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Presentation of results On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other In order to provide users of the accounts with a clear and consistent currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, presentation of the performance of the Groups ongoing trading are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, activity, the income statement is presented in a three column format the cumulative amount of such exchange differences is recognised in with 'headline' profits shown separately from non-headline items.
the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Judgement is required in determining which items should be Exchange differences arising on transactions are recognised in the included as non-headline.
The amortisation of acquired intangibles, income statement.
Those arising on trading are taken to operating impairments, legacy liabilities, material one-off items and certain profit: those arising on borrowings are classified as finance income re-measurements are included in a separate column of the income or cost.
See note 3 for a breakdown of the items excluded from headline operating profit and headline finance costs.
Revenue Performance measures for the Groups ongoing trading activity Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, are described as headline and used by management to measure net of trade discounts including distributor rebates and sales and monitor performance.
See note 1 for disclosures of headline taxes.
Revenue is discounted only where the impact of discounting is operating profit and note 30 for more information about the material.
calculation of return on capital employed and credit metrics.
When the Group enters into complex contracts with multiple, In addition, the Group reports underlying growth rates for sales and separately identifiable components, the terms of the contract profit measures and determining which items should be adjusted are reviewed to determine whether or not the elements of the for involves judgement.
Underlying growth excludes the impact of contract should be accounted for separately.
If a contract is being acquisitions, divestments, presentational changes and the effects of split into multiple components, the contract revenue is allocated foreign exchange translation, by making the following adjustments: to the different components at the start of the contract.
The basis of allocation depends on the substance of the contract.
The Group Exclude acquisitions from the current period for the first considers relative stand-alone selling prices, contractual prices and 12 months of ownership: relative cost when allocating revenue.
Exclude the performance of divested businesses after the date of disposal from comparative period: Sale of goods Include restructuring and pension administration costs as Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the risks and headline items for both the current and comparative periods: and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and recovery Retranslate the comparative to current year exchange rates of the consideration is probable.
For established products with before calculating growth measures.
simple installation requirements, revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the customer in accordance with the agreed ACCOUNTING POLICIES delivery terms.
For products which are technically innovative, highly customised or require complex installation, revenue is recognised Basis of consolidation when the customer has completed its acceptance procedures.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements of Services Smiths Group plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, Revenue from services is recognised in accounting periods in which together with the Groups share of the results of its associates.
A list the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific of the subsidiaries of Smiths Group plc is provided on pages 190 transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as to 198. a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Depending on the Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the Company.
Subsidiaries nature of the contract, revenue will be recognised on the basis of are fully consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the proportion of the contract term completed, the proportion of the the Company to the date that control ceases.
contract costs incurred or the specific services provided to date.
Associates are entities which the Group has significant influence Construction contracts over but does not control, generally accompanied by a share of Contracts for the construction of substantial assets are accounted between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates for as construction contracts if the customer specifies major are accounted for using the equity method.
structural elements of the design, including the ability to amend the design during the construction process.
These projects normally Foreign currencies involve installing customised systems with site-specific integration The Companys presentational currency is sterling.
position of all subsidiaries and associates that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of that balance sheet, and the income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
130 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated For cash-settled share-based payment, a liability is recognised reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share-based payment, the corresponding Group uses the percentage of completion method to determine credit is recognised directly in reserves.
the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period.
The Pension obligations and post-retirement benefits assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of The Group has defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans and the contract, but will generally be based on the estimated proportion post-retirement healthcare schemes.
of the total contract costs which have been incurred to date.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is recognised for For defined benefit plans and post-retirement healthcare schemes the entire loss.
the liability for each scheme recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date less the Leases fair value of any plan assets.
The obligation is calculated annually Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating The present value is determined by discounting the estimated future leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the cash outflows using interest rates of AA-rated corporate bonds that income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, lease.
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience Taxation adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income The charge for taxation is based on profits for the year and takes statement, and are presented in the statement of comprehensive into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting income statement.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is likely that expensed as incurred.
the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be likely, tax benefits are reviewed to assess whether a provision should be made Intangible assets based on prevailing circumstances.
Tax provisions are included in current tax liabilities, including any anticipated interest and Goodwill penalties.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the date in the countries where the Group operates and generates acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability 1998 is included in intangible assets, tested annually for impairment method.
A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is probable that and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains future taxable income will be sufficient to utilise the available relief.
and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising from relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August 1998 was set against the tax is also dealt with in equity.
reserves in the year of acquisition.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent of the reversal of the temporary differences is controlled by the reversals of impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Research and development reverse in the foreseeable future.
Expenditure on research and development is charged to the income Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
statement in the year in which it is incurred with the exception of: amounts recoverable from third parties: and Employee benefits expenditure incurred in respect of the development of major Share-based compensation new products where the outcome of those projects is assessed The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised as being reasonably certain as regards viability and technical as an expense over the vesting period to reflect the value of the feasibility.
Such expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the employee services received.
The fair value of options granted, estimated period of sale for each product, commencing in the year excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is that sales of the product are first made.
Amortisation is charged calculated using established option pricing models, principally straight line or based on the units produced, depending on the binomial models.
The probability of meeting non-market vesting nature of the product and the availability of reliable estimates conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the of production volumes.
number of share options which are likely to vest.
131 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The cost of development projects which are expected to take Trade and other receivables a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and borrowing costs.
subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate provision for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is Intangible assets acquired in business combinations established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective The identifiable net assets acquired as a result of a business evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms will not combination may include intangible assets other than goodwill.
Any such intangible assets are amortised straight line over their expected useful lives as follows: Provisions Patents, licences Provisions for warranties and product liability, disposal indemnities, and trademarks up to 20 years restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims Technology up to 13 years are recognised when: the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of Customer relationships up to 11 years resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
Software, patents and intellectual property The estimated useful lives are as follows: Where there are a number of similar obligations, for example where a warranty has been given, the likelihood that an outflow Software up to 7 years will be required in settlement is determined by considering the Patents and intellectual shorter of the economic life and class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the property the period the right is legally likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the enforceable same class of obligations may be small.
The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at Assets and businesses held for sale each balance sheet date.
Assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less gains or losses on subsequent remeasurements are included in accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
No depreciation is charged on assets and businesses classified as held for sale.
Depreciation is provided on other assets estimated to write off the depreciable amount of relevant assets Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
In carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The asset or 2%: Short leasehold property over the period of the lease: Plant, business must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be machinery, etc.
10% to 20%: Fixtures, fittings, tools and other highly probable within one year.
Discontinued operations The cost of any assets which are expected to take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs.
A discontinued operation is either: a component of the Groups business that represents a separate The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and major line of business or geographical area of operations that has adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable classified as held for sale: or amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
a business acquired solely for the purpose of selling it.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement Inventories as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
Cash and cash equivalents The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and highly materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production liquid interest-bearing securities with maturities of three months or overheads based on normal operating capacity.
of inventory which take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the In the cash-flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in applicable variable selling expenses.
liabilities on the balance sheet.
132 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets Cash-flow hedge The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for The effective portions of changes in the fair values of derivatives that which the assets were acquired.
Management determines the are designated and qualify as cash-flow hedges are recognised classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is designation at each reporting date.
Financial assets are classified as: recognised immediately in the income statement.
loans and receivables, available for sale financial assets or financial Amounts accumulated in the hedge reserve are recycled in the assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited to the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will affect income statement.
profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
If a forecast transaction that is hedged results in the Financial assets are initially recognised at transaction price when the Group becomes party to contractual obligations.
The transaction recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in the hedge price used includes transaction costs unless the asset is being fair valued through the income statement.
reserve are transferred from the reserve and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge using the effective interest rate method.
Available for sale financial no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gain or loss existing in the hedge reserve at that time remains in gains and losses being recognised in other comprehensive income.
the reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction is Financial assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast to the income statement are subsequently measured at fair value.
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through the income immediately transferred to the income statement.
statement category are included in the income statement in the Net investment hedge period in which they arise.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cashfor similarly to cash-flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging flows from the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is Company has transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating of ownership.
When securities classified as available for sale are to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments previously statement.
taken to reserves are included in the income statement.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, gains and losses Financial assets are classified as current if they are expected to be accumulated in equity related to that operation are included in the realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Financial liabilities Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the proceeds, The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are the net of related transaction costs.
These transaction costs, and any amounts at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current discount or premium on issue, are subsequently amortised under transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or the effective interest rate method through the income statement as liquidation sale.
interest over the life of the loan, and added to the liability disclosed IFRS 13: Fair value measurement requires fair value in the balance sheet.
Related accrued interest is included in the measurements to be classified according to the following hierarchy: borrowings figure.
level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has liabilities: an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least level 2 valuations in which all inputs are observable either one year after the balance sheet date.
directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities level 3 valuations in which one or more inputs that are significant to the resulting value are not based on observable market data.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured See note 20 for information on the methods the Group uses to at their fair value.
The method of recognising any resulting gain or estimate the fair values of its financial instruments.
loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Dividends Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the are authorised.
The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid income statement.
and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk.
133 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS The principal areas of impact for the Group's revenue recognition include: A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective for the Customer specific products rephasing of revenue recognition for current accounting period.
Certain standards which could be certain customer specific products that have no alternative use expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements and for which the Group has the right to receive payment: are discussed in further detail below.
Customer specific rights rephasing of revenue recognition for The Group conducted an impact assessment of the new standards contractual Customer specific rights: which are effective next year based on the Groups current Variable selling costs certain expenses currently classified as activities and have quantified the impact.
The results of the impact variable selling costs will be reclassified as offsets to revenue.
assessment confirm that the new standards will lead to limited This classification change reduces revenue and cost of sales but changes to presentation and disclosure.
has no impact on profit: and Contract assets and liabilities certain assets and liabilities IFRS 9: Financial instruments effective year ending 31 July 2019 current included within trade receivables, accrued income and The new standard addresses the classification and measurement of deferred revenue will be reclassified as contract assets and financial assets.
The alignment of the classification and measurement model under Revenue IFRS 9 will result in changes in the classification of all financial assets excluding derivatives.
These changes will not have a m quantitative impact on the financial statements.
As reported 3,213 Expected impacts 16 IFRS 9 introduces an expected credit loss model, requiring an expected credit loss to be recognised on all financial assets held at IFRS 15 revenue for the year ended 31 July 2018 3,197 amortised cost.
The Group has previously provided against bad and Headline operating profit doubtful debts within trade and other receivables based on specific risk assessments and reference to past default experience.
The m resulting reassessment of existing provisions is not expected to have As reported 544 a material impact on the net assets of the Group.
Expected impacts nil IFRS 15 headline operating profit for the year ended IFRS 9 also introduces changes to the qualifying criteria for hedge 31 July 2018 544 accounting and expands the financial and non-financial instruments which may be designated as hedged items and hedging instruments Net Assets in order to align hedge accounting with business strategy.
The m changes to hedge accounting under IFRS 9 will result in qualitative enhancements to the interest rate and foreign currency risk As reported 2,288 management disclosures but will not have a quantitative impact on Expected impacts 1 the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 15 net assets as at 31 July 2018 2,287 IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16: Leases effective year ending 31 July 2020 effective year ending 31 July 2019 The standard fundamentally changes the accounting treatment IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18: Revenue and IAS 11: Construction of leased assets, requiring all material lease liabilities and contracts.
The new standard combines a number of previous corresponding right of use assets to be recognised on the balance standards, sets out a five step model for the recognition of revenue sheet.
The operating lease rental expense currently charged to and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users operating profit in the income statement will be replaced by a of financial statements about the nature, timing and uncertainty depreciation charge for the right of use assets recognised in of revenue and cash-flows arising from an entitys contracts with operating profit and an interest charge on the lease liabilities customers.
A detailed assessment has been undertaken for the expected impact The Group is mid-way through an IFRS 16 adoption project and the of IFRS 15 on how the Group currently recognises revenue and a preliminary assessment indicates the impact of adoption will not summary of the results of this assessment is shown below.
The have a material impact on net assets.
The total value of operating Group will utilise the full retrospective application with practical lease commitments at 31 July 2018 was 155m FY2017: 140m.
expedients option for the adoption of IFRS 15.
PARENT COMPANY The assessment summary represents a reasonable estimate of the expected impact on the reported results for the year ended The ultimate parent company of the Group is Smiths Group plc, 31 July 2018 and on the net assets at that date but is subject to a company incorporated in England and Wales and listed on the revision during the coming half year as the Group completes its London Stock Exchange.
analysis, particularly for those contracts on which revenue was The accounts of the Parent Company, Smiths Group plc, have been recognised in the latter part of the financial year under current IFRS.
prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, applying Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Company accounts are presented in separate financial statements on pages 182 to 189.
The principal subsidiaries of the Parent Company are listed in the above accounts.
