124 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Critical judgements and estimates The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance IMPAIRMENT with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, the In carrying out impairment reviews of intangible assets, a number of application of which often requires judgements and estimates to be significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow made by management when formulating the Groups financial position projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, discount and results.
Under IFRS, the Directors are required to adopt those rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should performance and cash flows.
differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
The Groups accounting policies do not include any critical judgements.
The Groups accounting policies are set out in Notes 124 of the Notes LIABILITY PROVISIONING to the Group Accounts.
Of those, the policies which require the most use of managements estimation are as follows: The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and VALUATION OF INVENTORIES the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & Extremities estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and franchises whose inventory make up approximately 60% of the Groups external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts total inventory is the high level of product inventory required, some of updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
which is located at customer premises and is available for customers The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending immediate use.
Complete sets of products, including large and small on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less investigations bring to light new facts.
frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory TAXATION to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line as promptly as possible.
At any given time, the Group is involved basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market in disputes and tax audits and will have a number of tax returns for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate potentially subject to audit.
Significant issues may take several years based on experience, but it does require management estimate in to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, respect of customer demand, effectiveness of inventory deployment, management takes into account the views of internal and external length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of advisers and updates the amount of tax provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on factors including interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
