Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss For the year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Note $M $M Revenue 6 640.7 529.7 Cost of sales 143.3 121.3 Gross profit 497.4 408.4 Sales and marketing 249.0 210.6 Research and development 145.8 117.8 General finance and administration: 134.5 124.3 Underlying 46.9 39.3 Share-based payments 42.3 32.5 Exceptional items 7 13.2 31.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.2 19.9 Foreign exchange loss 6.9 1.2 Operating loss 31.9 44.3 Finance income 12 0.3 0.1 Finance expense 12 20.7 5.1 Loss before taxation 52.3 49.3 Income tax charge credit 13 14.0 2.6 Loss for the year 66.3 46.7 Earnings per share $ cents Basic and diluted EPS 14 14.4 10.3 Adjusted operating EPS 14 10.0 8.5 Diluted adjusted operating EPS 14 9.5 8.1 All of the loss for the year is attributable to equity holders of the parent company.
The notes on pages 99 to 139 form an integral part of these financial statements 94 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Loss for the period 66.3 46.7 Other comprehensive gains losses : Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: - Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 4.0 2.8 Total other comprehensive losses gains 4.0 2.8 Comprehensive loss for the year 70.3 43.9 All of the comprehensive loss for the year is attributable to equity holders of the parent company.
The notes on pages 99 to 139 form an integral part of these financial statements 95 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position At 31 March 2018 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Company registered number: 09608658 Note $M $M Non-current assets Intangible assets 15 869.9 856.0 Property, plant and equipment 17 25.4 23.4 Deferred tax asset 13 125.8 105.3 Other receivables 19 1.3 1.3 1,022.4 986.0 Current assets Tax assets 8.2 7.7 Inventories 18 16.0 16.2 Trade and other receivables 19 177.8 145.2 Cash and cash equivalents 20 120.0 68.1 322.0 237.2 Total assets 1,344.4 1,223.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 134.1 107.3 Deferred revenue 22 423.9 330.6 Tax liabilities 23.0 21.0 Financial liabilities 23 17.4 71.1 Provisions 24 0.4 598.4 530.4 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 21 8.2 3.9 Deferred revenue 22 331.8 250.4 Financial liabilities 23 306.8 296.3 Provisions 24 1.4 1.1 Deferred tax liabilities 13 6.0 14.4 654.2 566.1 Total liabilities 1,252.6 1,096.5 Net assets 91.8 126.7 Represented by: Share capital 26 22.0 21.6 Share premium 122.3 118.4 Merger reserve 200.9 200.9 Retained earnings 60.0 148.1 Share-based payment reserve 121.8 68.9 Translation reserve 33.4 29.4 Total equity 91.8 126.7 These Consolidated Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 May 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer The notes on pages 99 to 139 form an integral part of these financial statements 96 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year-ended 31 March 2018 Share-Based Share Share Merger Other Retained Payment Translation 1 Capital Premium Reserve Reserves Earnings Reserve Reserve Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M At 31 March 2016 21.3 115.9 200.9 0.1 205.7 36.2 32.2 145.9 Loss for the period: 46.7 46.7 Other comprehensive profit or loss: 2.8 2.8 Total comprehensive loss 46.7 2.8 43.9 Share options exercised 0.3 2.5 2.8 Disposal of EBT treasury shares 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments expense 31.3 31.3 Share-based payments deferred tax 1.4 1.4 Cash dividend note 27 10.9 10.9 At 31 March 2017 21.6 118.4 200.9 148.1 68.9 29.4 126.7 Loss for the period: 66.3 66.3 Other comprehensive profit or loss: 4.0 4.0 Total comprehensive loss 66.3 4.0 70.3 Share options exercised 0.4 3.9 4.3 Share-based payments expense 39.6 39.6 Share-based payments taxation 13.3 13.3 Cash dividends note 27 21.8 21.8 At 31 March 2018 22.0 122.3 200.9 60.0 121.8 33.4 91.8 1 At 31 March 2018 other reserves comprise an insignificant number of own shares held in an Employment Benefit Trust.
The notes on pages 99 to 139 form an integral part of these financial statements 97 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Note $M $M Loss for the year 66.3 46.7 Adjusted for: Depreciation 11.6 9.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.2 19.9 Amortisation of fair value adjustment on deferred income 1.0 1.0 Fair value adjustment on contingent consideration 0.2 Foreign exchange expense 8.1 Share-based payments expense 28 39.6 31.3 Finance income 12 0.3 0.1 Finance expense 12 20.7 5.1 Income tax charge credit 14.0 2.6 53.8 15.3 Decrease in inventories 1.7 1.1 Increase in trade and other receivables 22.9 20.5 Increase in trade and other payables 10.4 37.1 Increase in deferred revenue 127.0 104.4 Decrease Increase in provisions 0.2 0.3 Cash generated from continuing operations 169.8 137.7 Income taxes paid 22.1 19.2 Net cash flow from operating activities 147.7 118.5 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 17 10.0 11.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired 32 4.9 101.7 Purchase of intangible assets 15 11.1 5.1 Finance income 12 0.3 0.1 Net cash flow from investing activities 25.7 118.1 Financing activities Proceeds from issue of shares 4.2 2.8 Transaction costs related to the issue of shares Dividends paid 21.8 10.9 Proceeds from borrowings 32 50.0 Repayment of borrowings 32 50.0 25.0 Transaction costs related to borrowings 32 0.1 0.9 Finance lease payments 0.1 0.1 Finance costs 9.1 8.8 Net cash flow from financing activities 76.9 7.1 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 45.1 7.5 Net foreign exchange differences 6.8 6.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the period 68.1 66.8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 20 120.0 68.1 The notes on pages 99 to 139 form an integral part of these financial statements 98 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year-ended 31 March 2018 1 General Information Reporting Entity Sophos Group plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Companys registered office is Sophos Group plc, The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, Oxfordshire, OX14 3YP, United Kingdom.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as at and for the year-ended 31 March 2018 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group is a leading provider of cloud-enabled enduser and network security solutions.
2 Application of New and Revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective.
Other than as set out below, the Directors do not anticipate that the IFRSs will have a significant effect on the Groups consolidated financial information: Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2018: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration: Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Transactions: Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property: Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS: and, Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2019: IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 2021: IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will therefore be adopted by the Group in the year-ending 31 March 2019.
The review of IFRS15 is ongoing and the Group is cognisant of industry practice, which is constantly evolving, that could impact the Group in its implementation: however, based on the current position the Directors have updated their assessment of the impact of the standard on the Group based on the issued version of the standard and the latest authoritative guidance and have confirmed that there will be a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial information.
This will primarily be as a result of a the earlier recognition of revenue on certain software products where they are adjudged to have a distinct performance obligation element that transfers the benefit of ownership at the point of sale rather than entirely over the life of the licence: b the deferral of commissions and other direct costs in line with the recognition of revenue and c an immaterial impact of recognising rebates in line with the recognition of revenue over an average term of the licences sold.
The estimate of this impact on results, had it been effective for the reported periods, is a decrease in revenue in FY18 of $1.8 million as a consequence of more revenue being recognised in earlier periods than would be recognised in FY18 from the deferred revenue balance at the start of the period FY17: $3.1 million increase, benefiting from the earlier recognition of deferred revenue outweighing the amount now recognised in earlier periods.
In addition operating expenses would decrease by $9.1 million FY17: $3.0 million both as a consequence of the net recognition in later periods.
Other receivables are estimated to increase by $45.7 million FY17: 36.6 million while deferred revenue would decrease by $27.1 million FY17: $27.2 million.
The estimated tax impact of IFRS 15, had it been effective for FY18 and earlier periods, is a decrease in the recognised deferred tax asset at 31 March 2018 of $13.6 million with a corresponding total increase in the deferred tax charge over the periods.
The development of these estimates has been performed outside of the Groups underlying financial systems, to avoid the need of running parallel systems.
As a result, on full transition in the year-ending 31 March 2019 the actual impact may differ from the amounts disclosed once individual transactions have been processed, though this impact is not expected to be material.
The Groups underlying financial systems have already been updated to ensure that they will recognise transactions in accordance with IFRS 15 from 1 April 2018.
The Directors will continue to monitor industry practice and experience of implementation and update its assessment of the impact for the Group as appropriate.
99 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 2 Application of New and Revised International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs continued In implementing IFRS 15, the Directors intend to apply the retrospective approach such that in the accounts for the year-ended 31 March 2019 the comparatives for the year-ended 31 March 2018 will be restated on an IFRS 15 compliant basis.
In applying this approach, the Directors will make use of certain practical expedients, primarily that contracts that have completed as of the start of the earliest period presented will not be restated as they have no impact upon the results presented.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases, which was issued in January 2016 and becomes effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, will become effective for the Group for the year-ending 31 March 2020.
IFRS 16 replaces existing guidance on leases, including IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, ISC-15 Operating Leases Incentives and SIC27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model whereby the lessee recognises a right-of-use ROU asset and a corresponding financial liability to the lessor, representing the obligation to make lease payments.
The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees: low value assets e. g. personal computers and short-term leases with a term of less than 12 months.
The Directors have completed an initial assessment of the potential impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements, but has not yet completed a detailed assessment of the numerical impact of IFRS 16, which will depend on future economic conditions including the Groups borrowing rate on 1 April 2019 and the extent to which the Directors choose to use the available practical expedients and recognition exemptions.
It is currently anticipated that the most significant impact will be that the Group will recognise ROU assets and liabilities for its operating leases of offices and certain plant and equipment items.
As at 31 March 2018, the Groups future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases amounted to $68.5M on an undiscounted basis.
In the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, the operating lease expenditure will be replaced by depreciation of the ROU asset together with a finance expense.
Alternative performance measures which exclude depreciation, will benefit from the adoption of IFRS 16 through the removal of the operating lease charge.
In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Net cash flow from operating activities will see an improvement because of the depreciation adjustment, with a corresponding increased outflow in Net cash flow from financing activities.
The adoption of IFRS 16 is not expected to have an impact on the Groups ability to comply with loan covenants under the Senior Facilities Agreement dated 6 February 2017: as that agreement is drafted on a frozen GAAP basis.
3 Significant Accounting Policies 3.1 Statement of Compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared using International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the Group.
In addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: collectively IFRS.
3.2 Going Concern The Group has considerable financial resources together with contracts with a large number of customers and across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After excluding short-term deferred revenue from current liabilities, the Group has net current assets including significant cash balances and despite the loss making position, given the cash generative nature of the Groups operations and the visibility of future renewals, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 43.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition, note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
100 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3.3 Basis of Consolidation The consolidated historical financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention and is presented in US Dollars.
All values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million $M unless otherwise indicated.
The functional currency of Sophos Group plc is US Dollars.
The Group uses US Dollars as its presentation currency to aid comparability of its financial information with that of its peers and the industry: whose information is generally presented in US Dollars.
The accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated historical financial information for the year-ended 31 March 2018 have been consistently applied to all years presented and are set out below.
The historical financial information consolidates the financial information of Sophos Group plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries at 31 March 2018.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial information of the subsidiaries is prepared for the same reporting period as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions that are recognised in the statement of financial position of the individual reporting entities, are eliminated in full on consolidation.
3.4 Foreign Currency Translation The individual historical financial information of each Group company is prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the historical financial information of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
In preparing the financial information of the individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date.
All exchange differences are taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, except for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency US Dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated into US Dollars at the priormonth closing rate to that in which the transaction took place because they approximate the rate of exchange at the transaction dates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net assets of entities whose functional currency is not US Dollars, together with differences arising from the translation of the net results at average or actual rates to the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date, are taken to equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred accumulated amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
3.5 Critical Accounting Judgments and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements requires Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the reporting date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
Judgments In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies described in this note, Directors have made the following judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the historical financial information.
Revenue The Group sells software products under fixed term contracts and perpetual licences.
Where there is a multi-element arrangement, the consideration receivable is allocated to each element of the arrangement and this is done on the basis of an estimate of their respective fair values.
In determining the relative fair values of each element, Directors make reference to current prices of individual elements and adjust this by its relative share of discounts applied to the entire sale, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract.
101 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 3 Significant Accounting Policies continued 3.5 Critical Accounting Judgments and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued Classification of exceptional items and presentation of non-GAAP measures Directors exercise their judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside of the Groups underlying results.
The determination of whether an item should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or other adjustments requires judgement on its materiality, nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on the Groups underlying trading performance.
In exercising this judgement, Directors take appropriate regard of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements as well as guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and the European Securities and Market Authority on the reporting of exceptional items and alternative performance measures.
The overall goal of the Directors is to present the Groups underlying performance without distortion from one-off or non-trading events regardless of whether they be favourable or unfavourable to the underlying result.
Further details of the individual exceptional items, and the reasons for their disclosure treatment, are set out in note 7.
Research and development costs Development costs will be capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy set out in this note.
Determining the amounts to be capitalised requires the Directors to make assumptions regarding the capitalisation criteria requirements of IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Legal proceedings The Directors, at the reporting date, form a judgement in relation to the probable outcome of ongoing litigation against the Group.
These judgements take account of available information, historical experience and the likelihood of different possible outcomes.
Estimates The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates: Business combinations Where a business combination includes a contingent consideration, the Directors are required to make an assessment at the time of the acquisition of the most likely amount required to be settled.
This will include estimates of the outcome of future performance measures as agreed between the parties.
Note 23 sets out the financial liability at the end of the period and details the method of calculation as estimated at the balance sheet date.
Income tax The liability for income taxes at the balance sheet date includes the Directors estimates of the amount of tax payable on open tax computations where the liabilities remain to be agreed with the tax authorities.
These estimates may differ from the actual outcome and are further discussed in 3.16 and note 13 below.
3.6 Revenue Recognition The Group operates exclusively through a channel distribution model using a two-tier channel distribution structure around the world, with the exception of the UK where it operates a one-tier structure.
Under the two-tier arrangement, the Group will contract with and invoice distributors, who will in turn transact with partners, who will ultimately transact with the end user.
Under the one-tier arrangement the Group will transact with the partner who will transact with the ultimate end user.
Sales contracts are therefore not with the end user.
In both scenarios, the accounting treatment of sales contracts is the same.
In cases where support has been purchased, the responsibility for providing that support, and for all products providing maintenance and definition updates, remains with the Group rather than with channel partners and distributors.
Software licences sold by the Group provide security protection, amongst other things, against ransomware, malware and malicious viruses.
102 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The vast majority of the Groups software licences include rights to support and frequent product updates, the access to which is granted at the point a licence is provided to the customer and continues through the term of the licence to which the customer has subscribed, resulting in the software licence service being performed over a period of time.
As a result, billings occur on day one whilst revenue is recognised over time, because of the ongoing obligations to provide updates over the term of the licence.
Standard sales contracts do not include return rights: and in accordance with industry practice, customers only have a right of refund for undelivered product on the hardware or software licences that they have purchased.
In a minority of cases, agreements do allow for some limited returns.
These very limited return rights are taken into account when considering the recognition of revenue.
The Group does not recognise billings nor revenue until the criteria requiring delivery of hardware or software licences to be completed have been met.
Revenue is therefore recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, after discounts and rebates but excluding VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Where there is a multi-element arrangement, the consideration receivable is allocated to each element of the arrangement and this is done on the basis of an estimate of their respective fair values.
Revenue from software licences and service contracts The Group sells software products under fixed-term contracts and under perpetual licences.
Revenue on software licences and service contracts is recognised when the Group has met its obligation in relation to the product or services, which is on delivery of all relevant components for perpetual licences and over the life of the agreed licence for termed products.
Fixed-term contracts Customers who receive software products at the start of the contract under a fixed-term licence are entitled to receive regular updates and upgrades for the duration of the licence term which runs for periods ranging up to five years.
Revenue for these fixed-term contracts is recognised rateably over the period that the contractual obligation exists.
Accrued and deferred revenue arising on long-term contracts is included in receivables as accrued income and payables as deferred revenue, as appropriate.
Where the Group contracts with an original equipment manufacturer OEM or a service provider, rather than an end user, it mirrors the above policy and recognises the revenue in line with the contractual terms granted to the end user.
Perpetual licences Revenue is recognised immediately where customers purchase software products under a perpetual licence.
Revenue in respect of support and maintenance contracts associated with perpetual licences is recognised rateably over the life of the support maintenance contract.
Sale of goods Where software licences and hardware are sold together, if the software is not essential to the functionality of the tangible product, then the revenue from the sale of goods is recognised immediately.
However, where the software is essential to the functionality of the tangible product and the hardware cannot function without the software, revenue from the sale of goods is recognised rateably over the period of the associated software licence contract.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues.
103 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 3 Significant Accounting Policies continued 3.7 Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Except for freehold land, depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual values of all property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 25 years Leasehold improvements Over the lease period Computer equipment 3 5 years Other plant and equipment 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years Fixtures and fittings 6 10 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on fide-recognition of the asset is included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period of fide-recognition.
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of the assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year-end.
3.8 Business Combinations and Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
This involves recognising identifiable assets including previously unrecognised intangible assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities and excluding future restructuring of the acquired business at fair value.
Business combinations on or after 1 April 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 31 March 2004 is recorded at its previous carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill assets considered significant in comparison to the Companys total carrying amount of such assets have been allocated to cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
3.9 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period in which it is incurred to the extent that the expenditure does not qualify for capitalisation under research and development costs.
Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is classified as an intangible asset.
The capitalised costs of software for internal use include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and incremental payroll and payroll-related costs arising from the assignment of employees to implementation projects.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended internal use.
104 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised over their expected useful lives as follows: Intangible assets arising on acquisition of subsidiaries Intellectual property 5 15 years reducing balance basis Brand names 15 20 years reducing balance basis Customer base 6 14 years reducing balance basis Other purchased intangible assets Software 3 years straight-line basis The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as a general finance and administration cost.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least annually.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The term of their useful life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be appropriate.
3.10 Research and Development Costs Expenditure on research activities is expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset when its future recoverability can reasonably be regarded as assured and technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.
Following the initial recognition of the development expenditure, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future sales.
Development expenditure incurred on minor or major upgrades, or other changes in software functionalities does not satisfy the criteria, as the product is not substantially new in its design or functional characteristics.
Such expenditure is therefore recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as incurred.
3.11 Impairment of Assets At least annually, or when otherwise required, Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount or value in use of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money as well as risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but not beyond the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior-years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as income in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, although impairment losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 3 Significant Accounting Policies continued 3.12 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods for resale is based on the purchase cost and is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
3.13 Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups statement of financial position when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
When financial instruments are recognised initially they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Trade receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day payment terms mainly depending on the jurisdiction, are carried at original invoice amount, including value added tax and other sales taxes, less an estimate made for doubtful receivables based on a review of any outstanding amounts at the period-end and on historical performance.
Provision for bad debts is made in the period in which they are identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank deposits repayable in 90 days or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and bank deposits net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised at cost, which is deemed to be materially the same as the fair value.
Classification of equity instruments as debt or equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
When equity instruments are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transactions costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the re-purchase, settlement or other cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments The Group sometimes uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts to reduce its exposure to exchange rate movements and interest rate caps to reduce its exposure to fluctuating interest rates.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
106 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the reporting date.
Changes in the fair values are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is either not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the hedged risk or is so adjusted but that adjustment is not recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 Financial Instruments are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this volatility.
3.14 Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
3.15 Provisions A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance policy, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance expense.
3.16 Taxation The income tax charge represents the sum of the current and deferred taxes.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss because some items of income or expense are taxable in different periods or may never be taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using UK and foreign rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority.
They are measured using one of the following methods, depending on which of the methods management expects will better reflect the amount it will pay over to the tax authority: The single best estimate method is used where there is a single outcome that is more likely than not to occur.
This will happen, for example, where the tax outcome is binary or the range of possible outcomes is limited.
The most likely outcome may be that no tax is expected to be payable, in which case the provision is nil: or A probability weighted expected value is used where, on the balance of probabilities, something will be paid to the tax authority but the possible outcomes are widely dispersed with low individual probabilities i. e. there is no single outcome more likely than not to occur.
In this case, the provision is the sum of the probability-weighted amounts in the range.
In assessing provisions against uncertain tax positions, management uses in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience of the taxing authority to evaluate the risk.
However, it remains possible that uncertainties will ultimately be resolved at amounts greater or smaller than the liabilities provided.
The Groups current tax provision relates to the managements estimate of the amount of tax payable on open tax computations where the liabilities remain to be agreed with authorities.
The uncertain tax items for which provision is made see note 13, relate to the interpretation of tax legislation impacting arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business.
Due to the uncertainty associated with such items, it is possible that at a future date, on conclusion of open tax matters, the final outcome may vary.
We report cross-border transactions undertaken between Group subsidiaries on an arms-length basis in tax returns in accordance with OECD guidelines.
However, transfer pricing relies on the making of estimates and it is frequently possible for there to be a range of legitimate and reasonable views.
This means that it is impossible to be certain that the tax returns basis will be sustained on examination.
Discussions with tax authorities relating to cross-border transactions and other matters are ongoing in several of the Groups major trading jurisdictions.
107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 3 Significant Accounting Policies continued 3.16 Taxation continued Although the timing and amount of final resolution of these uncertain tax positions cannot be reliably predicted, no significant impact on the profitability of the Group is expected to result.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
The rate is based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is dealt with in other comprehensive income or in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the income taxes levied in the same taxation authority on either the same entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Disclosures relating to tax are set out in note 13 3.17 Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for its employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period in which they become payable.
3.18 Share-Based Payments Employees including senior executives of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The Group also grants cash-settled awards in certain jurisdictions in order to ensure compliance with tax, regulatory or legal country specific requirements.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in note 28.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
108 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Cash-settled transactions A liability is recognised for the fair value of cash-settled transactions.
The fair value is measured at grant and each subsequent reporting date up to and including the settlement date.
The change in fair value is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss with a corresponding entry in liabilities for cash-settled transactions.
3.19 Exceptional Items Exceptional items are those that in the judgment of the Directors need to be disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence, in order to draw the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business performance of the Group.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements or on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
3.20 Events After the Reporting Date Events between the reporting date and the date on which the Consolidated Financial Statements are approved, favourable and unfavourable, providing evidence of conditions that existed at the reporting date, adjust the amounts recognised in the Consolidate Financial Statements.
Those that indicate conditions arising after the reporting date are disclosed but are not recognised within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 Alternative Performance Measures APMs The Group uses certain financial measures that are not defined or recognised under IFRS.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures supplement GAAP measures to help in providing a further understanding of the results of the Group and are used as key performance indicators within the business to aid in evaluating its current business performance.
The measures can also aid in comparability with other companies, particularly in the cybersecurity industry, who use similar metrics.
However as the measures are not defined by IFRS, other companies may calculate them differently or may use such measures for different purposes to the Group.
Constant currency measures have limitations, particularly as the currency effects that are eliminated may constitute a significant element of the Groups revenue and expenses and could materially impact the Groups performance.
The Directors do not evaluate the Groups results and performance on a constant currency basis without also evaluating the Groups financial information prepared at actual foreign exchange rates in accordance with IFRS.
The definition of non-GAAP measures in the year-ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with those presented for the yearended 31 March 2017.
The reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures is set out below.
Billings Billings represent the value of products and services invoiced to customers after receiving a purchase order from the customer and delivering products and services to them, or for which there is no right to a refund.
Billings do not equate to statutory revenue.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Revenue 640.7 529.7 Net deferral of revenue see note 22 127.9 102.4 Billings 768.6 632.1 Currency revaluation 30.2 8.8 Constant currency billings 738.4 623.3 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 4 Alternative Performance Measures APMs continued Adjusted Operating Profit and Cash EBITDA Adjusted operating profit provides a supplemental measure of earnings that facilitates review of operating performance on a period-to-period basis by excluding non-recurring and other items that are not indicative of the Groups underlying operating performance.
Adjusted operating profit is a key profit measure used by the Board to assess the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit is stated before the following items for the following reasons Exceptional items, as set out in Note 7, are one of the items that in the Directors judgment should be disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence, in order to show the underlying business performance of the Group.
Charges for the amortisation of acquired intangibles are excluded from the calculation of adjusted operating profit.
This is because these charges are based on judgments about their value and economic life, are the result of the application of acquisition accounting rather than core operations, and whilst revenue recognised in the income statement does benefit from the underlying technology that has been acquired, the amortisation costs bear no relation to the Groups underlying ongoing operational performance.
In addition, amortisation of acquired intangibles is not included in the analysis of segment performance used by the chief operating decision maker.
Share-based payment charges are similarly excluded from the calculation of adjusted operating profit because these represent a non-cash accounting charge for transactions that could otherwise have been settled in cash or not be limited to employee compensation.
These charges also represent long-term incentives designed for long-term employee retention, rather than reflecting the short-term underlying operations of the Groups business.
The Directors acknowledge that there is an ongoing professional debate on the add-back of share-based payment charges but believe that as they are not included in the analysis of segment performance used by the chief operating decision maker and their add-back is consistent with metrics used by a number of other companies in the global cybersecurity industry, that this treatment remains appropriate.
Cash earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation Cash EBITDA is defined as the Groups operating profit loss adjusted for depreciation and amortisation charges, any gain or loss on the sale of tangible and intangible assets, share option charges, unrealised foreign exchange differences on the basis that they are non-cash income and expenses and exceptional items, with billings replacing recognised revenue.
The unrealised foreign exchange differences are included within the foreign exchange loss of $6.9M disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
The Directors consider this metric a useful supplemental measure of earnings that provides visibility on actual cash earned in the year.
The replacement of revenue with billings adjusts for the net deferral of revenue, whereas the weighted average contract term is around 28 months, a more material adjustment is generated than for the short-term working capital variations derived from the application of the accruals concept.
Therefore, whilst Cash EBITDA is not a pure cash flow metric, it represents a closer approximation to cash earned in the period from the trading that has taken place.
Depreciation and unrealised foreign exchange differences are adjusted as they do not represent cash costs of the business.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Note $M $M Operating loss 31.9 44.3 Amortisation of intangible purchased assets 25.2 19.9 Share-based payments expense 39.6 31.3 Exceptional items 7 13.2 31.4 Adjusted operating profit 46.1 38.3 Depreciation 11.6 9.4 Unrealised foreign exchange loss 8.1 Net deferral of revenue 127.9 102.4 Cash EBITDA 193.7 150.1 Billings 768.6 632.1 Revenue 640.7 529.7 Net deferral of revenue 127.9 102.4 110 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Unlevered Free Cash Flow Unlevered free cash flow represents net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for exceptional items and net capital expenditure.
Unlevered free cash flow provides an understanding of the Groups cash generation and is a supplemental measure of liquidity in respect of the Groups operations without the distortions of exceptional and other non-operating items.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Net cash flow from operating activities 147.7 118.5 Exceptional items cash-settled 13.0 31.4 Net capital expenditure 21.1 16.5 Unlevered free cash flow 139.6 133.4 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Cash EBITDA 193.7 150.1 Net capital expenditure 21.1 16.5 Change in working capital 10.9 19.0 Corporation tax paid 22.1 19.2 Unlevered free cash flow 139.6 133.4 5 Segment Information For internal management reporting purposes, the operating segments are determined to be geographic segments as the Groups risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by the different economic environments.
This is consistent with the information provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Group has only one operating segment based on product on the basis that the products and services offered to external customers are very similar and therefore do not result in different risks and rates of return for the Group.
The Groups geographical segments are based on the location of the Groups operations consisting of Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, The Americas and Asia Pacific and Japan APJ.
Billings are classified by the geographic location of direct customers, OEMs and the distributors which purchase our products.
The geographic location of OEMs or distributors may be different from that of end customers.
A disclosure of billings and revenue by region is included in the Financial Review on pages 29 to 31.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 3.
Segment profits represent the profit earned by each segment without allocation of central administration costs including Directors salaries, finance costs and income tax expense.
This is the measure reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker, the Chief Executive Officer, and Senior Management Team for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Transfer prices between geographical segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 5 Segment Information continued Geographical Segments The following tables present billings, expenditure and certain asset information regarding the Groups geographical segments for the year-ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017.
Americas EMEA APJ Total Year-ended 31 March 2018 $M $M $M $M Billings 270.0 395.1 103.5 768.6 Regional cost of sales 14.7 38.1 16.2 69.0 Regional gross margin 255.3 357.0 87.3 699.6 Regional sales and marketing expense 76.7 79.0 32.0 187.7 Regional operating profit 178.6 278.0 55.3 511.9 Revenue deferral 127.9 Central costs 379.1 Amortisation 25.2 Depreciation 11.6 Operating loss 31.9 Americas EMEA APJ Total Year-ended 31 March 2017 $M $M $M $M Billings 217.6 319.5 95.0 632.1 Regional cost of sales 16.2 36.5 15.2 67.9 Regional gross margin 201.4 283.0 79.8 564.2 Regional sales and marketing expense 64.2 69.0 29.5 162.7 Regional operating profit 137.2 214.0 50.3 401.5 Revenue deferral 102.4 Central costs 314.1 Amortisation 19.9 Depreciation 9.4 Operating loss 44.3 Other Segment Information 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Segment assets $M $M Americas 377.8 369.4 EMEA 690.4 599.4 APJ 150.4 149.1 Total segment assets 1,218.6 1,117.9 Unallocated assets 125.8 105.3 Consolidated total assets 1,344.4 1,223.2 Unallocated assets relate to deferred tax, as the measure of segment assets reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker does not include deferred tax.
Following the finalisation of the segment allocation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of Invincea, Inc. in the prior-year, comparatives have been re-stated.
112 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Depreciation and amortisation $M $M Americas 7.5 4.9 EMEA 24.9 22.0 APJ 4.4 2.4 Total depreciation and amortisation 36.8 29.3 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Non-current assets by country $M $M UK 39.8 42.4 USA 13.6 13.6 Germany 2.7 3.0 Other countries 14.5 12.4 Total non-current assets by country 70.6 71.4 Non-current assets by country excludes deferred tax assets and goodwill.
Goodwill has been excluded as a split by country is not available and the Directors consider that the cost to develop such analysis would be excessive.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Revenue from external customers by country $M $M UK 74.0 58.7 USA 203.9 169.3 Germany 127.4 103.1 Other countries 235.4 198.6 Total 640.7 529.7 The Groups revenue is diversified across its entire end customer base and no single end user accounted for greater than 10 per cent of the Groups revenue in either 2017 or 2018.
In 2018 three distributors accounted for 15 per cent, 14 per cent and 12 per cent each of Group billings which were attributable to all segments of the Group 2017: three distributors accounted for 15 per cent, 13 per cent and 11 per cent each.
113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 6 Revenue Revenue recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is analysed as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Revenue by Product: $M $M Network 315.6 271.2 Enduser 294.7 231.6 Other 30.4 26.9 Total 640.7 529.7 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Revenue by Type: $M $M Subscription 515.3 410.7 Hardware 114.2 106.7 Other 11.2 12.3 Total 640.7 529.7 7 Exceptional Items Exceptional items are those that in the judgment of the Directors need to be disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence, in order to draw the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business performance of the Group.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate and are separately disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
During the year-ended 31 March 2018, restructuring and integration costs of $10.2M 2017: $0.4M and costs incurred in relation to the defence of certain intellectual property IP litigation of $3.0M 2017: $24.6M were incurred.
In the prioryear intellectual property litigation costs included an omnibus agreement entered into with Finjan Inc. on 30 March 2017 resolving all the parties disputes.
Additionally, in the prior-year, acquisition related expenses of $7.2M, including earn-outs from acquisitions in earlier periods, were incurred.
This resulted in total exceptional items of $13.2M 2017: $31.4M.
Tax relief on these exceptional items amounted to $2.6M 2017: $4.8M.
8 Loss on Ordinary Activities The loss on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.6 9.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.2 19.9 Research and development expenditure 145.8 117.8 Operating lease rentals: Property 12.5 10.8 Other 1.6 1.4 Pension scheme contributions 8.4 6.5 Impairment of trade receivables 0.6 0.1 Net foreign currency differences 6.9 1.2 114 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Auditors Remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the historical financial information and for other non-audit services provided to the Group.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Audit of the financial statements 0.4 0.4 Subsidiary local statutory audits 0.4 0.2 Total audit fees 0.8 0.6 Taxation compliance services 0.2 Total non-audit fees 0.2 The audit of a number of foreign subsidiaries were transferred from other auditors to the Groups auditor during the current-year.
10 Employee Costs Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Wages and salaries 280.9 234.2 Social security costs 27.3 22.2 Pension costs 8.4 6.5 Other costs 12.1 9.2 328.7 272.1 Share-based payments see note 28 42.2 32.5 Total employee costs 370.9 304.6 The average number of employees during the period, analysed by category, was as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Technical 1,868 1,830 Sales and marketing 1,124 998 Administration 327 294 Total average number of employees 3,319 3,122 11 Directors Remuneration Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Directors emoluments 3.3 3.2 Share-based payment - equity-settled 7.0 7.9 Total Directors remuneration 10.3 11.1 Directors emoluments represent all earnings and aggregate contributions to pension schemes made during the year as a Director of Sophos Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Further details can be found in the Groups Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 81.
115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 12 Finance Income and Expense Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Finance income $M $M Interest on bank deposits 0.3 0.1 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Finance expense $M $M Interest expense on loans and borrowings 8.7 7.8 Other interest and bank charges 0.3 0.4 9.0 8.2 Accretion on contingent consideration 0.9 0.2 Foreign exchange loss gain on borrowings 9.6 4.2 Amortisation of facility fees 1.2 0.9 Total finance expense 20.7 5.1 13 Taxation UK corporation tax for the year-ended 31 March 2018 is calculated at 19 per cent 2017: 20 per cent of the estimated assessable loss for the period.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Current income tax: UK corporation tax 2.5 4.0 Adjustments in respect of previous years UK tax 0.3 1.1 Overseas tax before exceptional items 23.0 22.5 Overseas tax on exceptional items 0.1 Adjustment in respect of previous years 11.1 4.1 Total current tax charge 31.9 21.6 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 19.8 18.9 Origination and reversal of temporary differences on exceptional items 5.0 Impact of changes in US tax rate 5.4 Adjustment in respect of previous years 3.5 0.3 Total deferred tax credit 17.9 24.2 Total income tax charge credit 14.0 2.6 116 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The charge for the year can be reconciled to the loss for the year before taxation per the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Loss for the year before taxation 52.3 49.3 Loss for the year before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19% 2017: 20% 9.9 9.9 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of previous years 7.9 2.7 Change in tax rate during the year 3.7 1.6 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 9.4 1.8 Losses not recognised 1.8 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 3.8 6.5 Research and development and other tax credits 5.1 5.4 Impact of US tax reform on deferred tax 5.4 Other movements 1.2 1.9 Charge credit for taxation on loss for the year 14.0 2.6 The Groups taxation strategy is aligned to its business strategy and operational needs.
Oversight of taxation is within the remit of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for tax strategy supported by a global team of tax professionals.
Sophos strives for an open and transparent relationship with all revenue authorities and are vigilant in ensuring that the Group complies with current tax legislation.
The Group proactively seeks to agree arms length pricing with tax authorities to mitigate tax risks of significant cross-border operations.
The Group actively engages with policy makers, tax administrators, industry bodies and international institutions to provide informed input on proposed tax measures, so that it and they can understand how those proposals would affect the Group.
However, a tax authority may seek adjustment to the filing position adopted by a Group company and it is accepted that interpretation of complex regulations may lead to additional tax being assessed.
Uncertain tax positions are monitored regularly and a provision made in the accounts where appropriate.
Key Influences The Groups tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and reflects a combination of higher rates in certain jurisdictions, such as Germany and India, a low rate in the UK and other rates that lie in between.
The Group receives incentives in certain jurisdictions.
In the UK, the Research and Development Expense Credit resulted in a lower tax charge in the income statement and a lower net cash tax payment.
There is no guarantee that these incentives will continue to be applicable in future years.
In the UK, a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 19 per cent to 17 per cent from April 2020 was enacted on 6 September 2016.
The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted on 22nd December 2017, reducing the statutory rate of US federal corporate income tax from 35 per cent to 21 per cent with effect from 1st January 2018.
The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is expected to positively impact future after tax earnings, primarily because of the reduced tax rate.
Consequently, the Group has measured its US deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period at a combined federal and state tax rate of 27.08 per cent.
The value of US deferred tax assets has reduced by $5.4M in the year-ended 31 March 2018 as a result of the reduced statutory rate of US federal corporate income tax rate: this is identified in tax rates movement in the reconciliation of effective tax rate.
The re-evaluation has resulted in a one-off charge of $5.4M to the taxation charge.
The current tax adjustment in respect of prior periods of $11.1M includes an update in the estimate of tax of $5.6M arising in the US when the group modified its transfer pricing policy, on an arms length basis, to ensure that policies continue to reflect the ongoing development of our management and commercial structure as the business grows.
The remainder includes a $5.1M increase in the provision for uncertain tax positions and $0.4M for tax filing position adjustments across all other territories.. Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority.
The methodology used to estimate liabilities is set out in note 3.16.
Within current liabilities is $21.8 million FY17: $16.7 million in respect of liabilities for uncertain tax positions, the majority of which relates to the risk of challenge from tax authorities to the geographic allocation of profits across the Group.
The Group anticipates that a number of tax audits are likely to conclude in the next twelve to twenty four months.
Due to the uncertainty associated with such tax items, it is possible at a future date, on the conclusion of open tax matters, the final outcome may vary significantly.
117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 13 Taxation continued Expected Future Rate Over the medium-term the tax rate is likely to stabilise as the integration of acquisitions in higher rate jurisdictions are completed.
However, the tax rate may fluctuate if business changes are implemented in response to legislation arising from the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting Project.
Legislative change in key territories is being monitored and acted upon.
The Group does not anticipate any significant impact on the future tax charge, liabilities or assets, as a result of the triggering of Article 50 2 of the Treaty on European Union, but cannot rule out the possibility that, for example, a failure to reach satisfactory arrangements for the UKs future relationship with the European Union, could have an impact on such matters.
The European Commission has announced that an investigation will be opened in to the UKs controlled foreign company CFC rules.
The CFC rules levy a charge on foreign entities controlled by the UK that are subject to a lower rate of tax, however there is currently an exemption available for 75 per cent of this charge if the activities being undertaken by the CFC relate to financing.
The EC considers that this exemption is in breach of EU State Aid rules.
No provision for this potential liability of 3.2M has been provided in these Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not clear what, if any, the ultimate financial result will be.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Deferred income tax assets in relation to: Deferred revenue 45.1 37.1 Tax value of carry forward losses of UK subsidiaries 24.2 15.4 Tax value of carry forward losses of overseas subsidiaries 6.4 13.1 Advanced capital allowances 7.7 6.2 Share-based payments 27.7 19.7 Other timing differences 14.7 13.8 Total 125.8 105.3 Deferred income tax liabilities in relation to: Intangible assets 5.9 14.4 Other timing differences 0.1 Total 6.0 14.4 As at 31 March 2018 the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have been recognised was $Nil 2017: $Nil.
No liability has been recognised because the Group is in a position to control the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Losses A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of losses where current forecasts indicate profits will arise in the forecast period against which the losses recognised will be offset.
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of $500.4M 2017: $336.6M available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of $166.4M 2017: $118.2M of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining $334.0 2017: $218.4M as it is not considered probable that there will be the required type of future trading or non-trading profits available in the correct entities necessary to permit offset and recognition.
118 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Share-Based Payments A remuneration expense for share based payments is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss over the period from the award date to the vesting date of the relevant options.
Where there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset may be recorded.
Any deferred tax asset arising on share option awards is calculated as the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future.
This is based on the Groups share price at the reporting date so will be impacted by share price movement and is pro-rated to the extent that the services of the employee have been rendered over the vesting period.
If this amount exceeds the cumulative amount of the remuneration expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
Similarly, current tax relief in excess of the cumulative amount of the remuneration expense at the statutory rate is also recorded in retained earnings.
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised in jurisdictions in which future tax deductions are expected.
14 Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if all dilutive potential ordinary shares were converted into ordinary shares.
In accordance with IAS 33, the dilutive earnings per share are without reference to adjustments in respect of outstanding shares when the impact would be anti-dilutive.
Adjusted Operating EPS is calculated by dividing the Adjusted Operating Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
In each case, the weighted average number of shares takes into account the weighted average number of own shares held during the period.
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating EPS: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Loss for the period attributable to the equity holders of the Company 66.3 46.7 Adjusted Operating Profit for the period attributable to the equity holders of the Company see note 4 46.1 38.3 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Weighted average number of shares 000s : 459,969 452,338 Effects of dilution from: Share options 11,475 11,434 Restricted Share Units 17,125 10,589 Diluted 488,569 474,361 Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $ Cents $ Cents Basic and diluted EPS 14.4 10.3 Adjusted operating EPS 10.0 8.5 Diluted adjusted operating EPS 9.5 8.1 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 15 Intangible Assets Intellectual Goodwill Property Software Others Total Cost $M $M $M $M $M At 31 March 2016 716.3 368.9 36.2 267.2 1,388.6 Additions 5.1 5.1 Acquired through business combinations 99.8 21.6 1.2 122.6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 6.6 2.2 4.2 3.1 16.1 At 31 March 2017 809.5 388.3 37.1 265.3 1,500.2 Additions 14.8 6.1 20.9 Disposals Effect of movements in exchange rates 16.7 5.1 4.4 7.6 33.8 At 31 March 2018 826.2 408.2 47.6 272.9 1,554.9 Amortisation Impairment loss At 31 March 2016 0.2 356.3 20.9 254.6 632.0 Charge for the year 7.4 7.0 5.5 19.9 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2.1 2.6 3.0 7.7 At 31 March 2017 0.2 361.6 25.3 257.1 644.2 Charge for the period 13.4 8.1 3.7 25.2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 5.0 3.1 7.5 15.6 At 31 March 2018 0.2 380.0 36.5 268.3 685.0 Net book value At 31 March 2017 809.3 26.7 11.8 8.2 856.0 At 31 March 2018 826.0 28.2 11.1 4.6 869.9 Intellectual property is amortised on a reducing balance basis over its estimated useful life of up to 15 years.
Other intangibles comprise customer relationships, with a gross value of $250.4M and a net book value of $2.6M, and brand names with a gross value of $22.5M and a net book value of $2.0M.
Customer relationships are amortised on a reducing balance basis over a period of up to 14 years and brand names on a reducing balance basis over a period of up to 20 years.
Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over three years.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
The Group has not capitalised development costs in the year-ended 31 March 2018 2017: $Nil as the Directors believe the criteria set out in IAS38 has not been met.
120 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Impairment of Goodwill and Intangibles Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Americas 288.2 253.0 EMEA 434.2 473.2 APJ 103.6 83.1 826.0 809.3 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is tested annually, or more frequently where there is indication of impairment.
The goodwill of $96.4M arising on the acquisition of Invincea, Inc. on 21 March 2017 was initially allocated to the EMEA CGU.
During the year the Directors have re-assessed and re-allocated this goodwill based upon synergies provided to each CGU, the comparatives have also been re-stated.
Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to which it relates is greater than the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use.
For the year-ended 31 March 2018, the Directors have reviewed the value of goodwill based on internal value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for these calculations are discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to billings and direct costs during the period.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the Directors most recent financial forecasts for the following five years.
The growth rates for the five-year period are based on Directors expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the cash-generating unit, planned growth in market share, industry forecasts, growth in the market and specific regional considerations and are in line with past experience.
Discount rates have been estimated based on rates that reflect current market assessments of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The key assumptions used in the assessments in the year-ended 31 March 2018 are as follows: Americas EMEA APJ % % % Long-term regional growth rate beyond five years 2.5% 1.5% 2.0% Discount rate 9.5% 9.5% 10.5% The key assumptions used in the assessments in the year-ended 31 March 2017 were as follows: Americas EMEA APJ % % % Long-term regional growth rate beyond five years 2.5% 1.5% 2.0% Discount rate 10.5% 10.0% 11.5% As at 31 March 2018, there were no indicators of impairment that suggested the carrying amounts of the Groups long-lived assets are not recoverable.
121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 17 Property, Plant and Equipment Land and Plant and Fixtures Buildings Machinery and Fittings Total Cost $M $M $M $M As at 31 March 2016 20.5 29.4 4.4 54.3 Additions 0.9 9.8 0.7 11.4 Acquired through business combinations 0.5 0.1 0.6 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Effect of movements in exchange rates 6.4 2.5 0.3 9.2 As at 31 March 2017 15.0 36.9 4.9 56.8 Additions 0.9 7.8 1.3 10.0 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Effect of movements in exchange rates 5.4 4.0 0.6 10.0 As at 31 March 2018 21.3 48.3 6.8 76.4 Depreciation As at 31 March 2016 8.8 18.9 1.7 29.4 Charge for the year 2.7 6.0 0.7 9.4 Acquired through business combinations 0.4 0.4 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3.3 2.0 0.2 5.5 As at 31 March 2017 8.2 23.0 2.2 33.4 Charge for the year 2.6 8.1 0.9 11.6 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3.1 2.8 0.4 6.3 As at 31 March 2018 13.9 33.6 3.5 51.0 Net book value As at 31 March 2017 6.8 13.9 2.7 23.4 As at 31 March 2018 7.4 14.7 3.3 25.4 Included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment are assets under finance lease of $0.0M 2017: $0.1M.
There has been no impairment to the property, plant and equipment held by the Group during the year.
18 Inventories 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Finished goods and goods for resale 16.0 16.2 The amount of write-down of inventories included as an expense within the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss was $1.4M 2017: $0.1M.
122 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Trade and Other Receivables 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Current $M $M Trade receivables 151.8 123.1 Prepayments 18.6 14.1 Other receivables 7.4 8.0 Total current trade and other receivables 177.8 145.2 Non-current Other receivables 1.3 1.3 Total non-current trade and other receivables 1.3 1.3 Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are generally on 3090 day payment terms depending on the geographical territory in which sales are generated.
The carrying value of trade and other receivables also represents their fair value.
During the year-ended 31 March 2018 a provision for impairment of $0.6M 2017: $0.1M was recognised in operating expenses against receivables.
At 31 March 2018, trade receivables at a nominal value of $0.9M 2017: $0.4M were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M At 1 April 0.4 0.7 Charge for the year 0.6 0.1 Amounts written off 0.1 0.3 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 At 31 March 0.9 0.4 The analysis of trade receivables that were past due, but not impaired is as follows: Up to 3 months 1.5 0.4 3 to 6 months 0.2 Greater than 6 months 1.0 0.4 Total 2.7 0.8 20 Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Cash at bank and in hand 67.2 62.3 Short-term deposits 52.8 5.8 Total cash and cash equivalent 120.0 68.1 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 21 Trade and Other Payables 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Current $M $M Trade payables 39.6 34.9 Accruals 68.4 53.5 Social security and other taxes 14.9 11.5 Other payables 11.2 7.4 Total current trade and other payables 134.1 107.3 Non-current Other payables 8.2 3.9 Total non-current trade and other payables 8.2 3.9 Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30-day terms or as otherwise agreed with suppliers.
22 Deferred Revenue 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Current 330.6 286.5 Non-current 250.4 212.2 At 1 April 581.0 498.7 Billings deferred during the year 768.6 632.1 Revenue released to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 640.7 529.7 Net deferral 127.9 102.4 Acquired through business combinations 4.1 Translation and other adjustments 46.8 24.2 Current 423.9 330.6 Non-current 331.8 250.4 At 31 March 755.7 581.0 On acquisition of Invincea, Inc. on 21 March 2017, acquired deferred revenue of $6.1M was reduced by $2.0M representing the fair value of original selling cost and associated profit.
23 Financial Liabilities The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are included at the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the end of the reporting period.
The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair values: Cash and cash equivalents approximates to the carrying amount Finance leases approximates to the carrying amount Bank loans approximates to the carrying amount Receivables and payables approximates to the carrying amount Where financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair values their measurement should be classified into the following hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets from identical assets or liabilities Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data 124 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group had a Level 3 financial liability of $17.9M of contingent consideration measured at fair value through profit and loss at 31 March 2018 2017: $21.7M.
The fair value of contingent consideration is determined using a probability-weighted average of outcomes discounted back to the acquisition date.
The primary unobservable inputs comprise the forecast billings $Nil to $20M and billings growth rate 83 per cent and the risk adjusted discount rate 5.0 per cent 10 per cent.
The estimated fair value would increase decrease if the revenue growth rate was higher lower or the risk adjusted discount rate was lower higher.
Total financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period were as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Current instalments due on finance leases 0.1 Current instalments due on bank loans 50.0 Contingent consideration 17.4 21.0 Total current financial liabilities 17.4 71.1 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 308.8 299.2 Contingent consideration 0.5 0.7 Unamortised facility fees 2.5 3.6 Total non-current financial liabilities 306.8 296.3 Total financial liabilities 324.2 367.4 Finance Leases The Group acquired lease obligations on certain of its fixtures and fittings under finance leases with terms of three to five and a half years and at underlying interest rates ranging from 5.2 per cent 6.3 per cent per annum as part of the acquisition of Reflexion Inc. At 31 March 2018, the present value of future lease payments was $0.0M 2017: $0.1M.
Contingent Consideration Invincea, Inc. As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owners of Invincea, Inc. a contingent consideration has been agreed.
The consideration is dependent on the billings of products including the intellectual property acquired with Invincea, Inc. for the 12 month period to 21 March 2018 with a maximum payout of $20.0M.
The fair value of the contingent consideration at the acquisition date was estimated at $19.3M.
The contingent consideration is due for measurement to the former shareholders on 30 June 2017, 30 September 2017, 31 December 2017 and 21 March 2018 respectively.
The final instalment is due for payment in the year-ending 31 March 2019.
Silent Break LLC As part of the purchase agreement with the previous owners of the PhishThreat technology, a contingent consideration has been agreed.
The consideration is dependent on the billings of the PhishThreat product range for three annual periods commencing 1 March 2017 and ending on 28 February 2020 with a maximum payout of $2.0M.
The fair value of the contingent consideration at the acquisition date was estimated at $1.2M.
The contingent consideration is due for measurement to the sellers on 28 February 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively.
Movements in contingent consideration during the year-ended 31 March 2018 were as follows: Silent Break Reflexion Invincea, Inc. Security LLC Networks Inc. Total Contingent Consideration $M $M $M $M At 31 March 2016 2.2 2.2 Assumed on business combination 19.3 1.2 20.5 Accretion 0.1 0.1 0.2 Cash paid 1.2 1.2 At 31 March 2017 19.4 1.2 1.1 21.7 Fair value contingent consideration 0.2 0.2 Accretion 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.9 Cash paid 3.7 1.2 4.9 At 31 March 2018 16.3 1.6 17.9 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 23 Financial Liabilities continued The undiscounted contingent consideration is due as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Due within one year 17.4 21.8 Due between two and five years 0.6 0.9 Total undiscounted contingent consideration 18.0 22.7 Loans and Borrowings Included in borrowings are bank loans of $308.8M 2017: $349.2M as analysed below.
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 25.
31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Current instalments due on bank loans 50.0 Non-current instalments due on bank loans 308.8 299.2 Total bank loans 308.8 349.2 The bank loans are repayable as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Due within one year 50.0 Due between two and five years 308.8 299.2 Total bank loans 308.8 349.2 The Group entered into an amended Senior Facilities agreement on 6 February 2017, whereby an additional Revolving Credit Facility was added to the existing agreement.
Following the amendment, the following terms apply to the bank loans outstanding at 31 March 2018: Principal Principal Facility Interest Margin M $M Facility A Libor 1.50% $ 235.0 235.0 Facility B Euribor 1.50% 60.0 73.8 Revolving Credit Facility 1 Libor 1.25% Revolving Credit Facility 2 Libor 2.25% 308.8 Repayment and Maturity Facility A $235.0M, Facility B 60.0M, Revolving Credit Facility 1 multicurrency up to $30.0M are repayable in full on the termination date at the end of the 60-month term on 1 July 2020.
Revolving Credit Facility 2 multicurrency up to $40.0M is repayable in full on the termination date on 2 July 2020.
Any utilisation of a Revolving Credit facility is repayable on the last day of its interest period, any amount repaid may be re-borrowed.
The margin payable on the facilities is dependent upon the ratio of the Groups net debt to Cash EBITDA as defined in the facility agreement.
The bank loans are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain Group companies including businesses, undertakings, securities, properties, revenues or rights of every description.
126 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 24 Provisions Re-structuring Other Total $M $M $M At 31 March 2016 0.3 1.0 1.3 Arising during the year 0.6 0.6 Utilised 0.3 0.1 0.4 Released during the year Disposal of a business Exchange differences At 31 March 2017 1.5 1.5 Arising during the year 0.2 0.2 Utilised Released during the year 0.4 0.4 Disposal of a business Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2018 1.4 1.4 31 March 2018 Current Non-current 1.4 1.4 Total provisions 1.4 1.4 31 March 2017 Current 0.4 0.4 Non-current 1.1 1.1 Total provisions 1.5 1.5 Other Provisions The opening provisions partially related to the Groups obligations to make good the dilapidations of various leasehold premises at the end of the lease periods.
Additionally, in France the Group operates an unfunded, compulsory retirement indemnity plan, payable only if the employees are working for the Group when they retire.
The provision arising in the year-ended 31 March 2018 relating to the retirement indemnity plan was $0.2M 2017: $0.1M.
25 Financial Risk Management Financial risk management is conducted at a Group level, applying treasury policies which have been approved by the Board.
The major financial risks to which the Group is exposed relate to interest rate risk, credit risk and movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Where appropriate, cost effective and practicable, the Group uses various financial instruments to manage these risks.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to reduce the impact on the Group operations of changes in market rates.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other instruments is permitted.
The Directors review and agree policies for managing each of these risks as summarised below: Liquidity Risk The Group prepares budgets annually in advance.
This enables the Groups operating cash flow requirements to be anticipated and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs, financial obligations and to invest any surplus cash assets safely and profitably.
Quarterly covenant tests are performed and monitored by the Directors at quarterly Board meetings.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding, minimising finance costs and maintaining flexibility through the use of short-term deposits and intra-group loan arrangements.
127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 25 Financial Risk Management continued Capital Management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 20, borrowings as disclosed in note 23 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
The Group reviews the capital structure on a regular basis and considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Credit Risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and bank deposits and trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
In order to manage credit risk, the Directors set limits for customers based on a combination of payment history and third party credit references.
Credit limits are reviewed by the credit controller on a regular basis in conjunction with debt ageing and collection history.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of allowance for doubtful debts.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The expense recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in respect of doubtful debts during the period was $0.6M, as disclosed in note 19.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk in trade receivables: exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
With respect to cash and deposits, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the risk of default by the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these assets.
To mitigate this risk, cash and deposits are only held with reputable banking institutions.
The Group reduces the concentrations of credit risk in cash and deposits by holding balances with a number of separate institutions, wherever possible with banks that are also lenders to the Group.
Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily due to the long-term debt obligations with floating rates of interest.
Interest Rate Sensitivity A change of 100 basis points in market interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit and loss by the amounts shown below.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Increase in interest rates 3.3 3.1 Decrease in interest rates 3.3 3.1 Foreign Currency Risk The Group is exposed to translation and transaction foreign exchange risk.
Several other currencies in addition to the reporting currency of US Dollar are used, including Sterling and the Euro.
The Group experiences currency exchange differences arising upon retranslation of monetary items primarily short-term inter-company balances and long-term borrowings, which are recognised as an expense in the period the difference occurs.
The Group endeavours to match the cash inflows and outflows in the various currencies: the Group typically invoices its customers in their local currency and pays its local expenses in local currency, as a means to mitigate this risk.
The Group is also exposed to exchange differences arising from the translation of its subsidiaries financial statements into the Groups reporting currency of US Dollar with the corresponding exchange differences taken directly to equity.
The following table illustrates the movement that 10 per cent in the value of Sterling or the Euro against the USD would have had on the Groups profit or loss for the period and on the Groups equity as at the end of the period.
128 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M 10% movement in Sterling to US Dollar value Profit or loss 5.1 0.6 Equity 37.4 25.9 10% movement in Euro to US Dollar value Profit or loss 7.5 6.5 Equity 10.8 11.9 Any foreign exchange variance would be recognised as unrealised foreign exchange in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and have no impact on cash flows.
26 Share Capital Year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended 31 March 2017 Shares issued and fully paid 000s $M 000s $M At 1 April of 0.03 each 459,642 21.6 452,172 21.3 Issued for cash on exercise of options 3,445 0.4 4,087 0.3 Issued under the Sophos Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 5,401 3,383 At 31 March, Ordinary shares of 0.03 468,488 22.0 459,642 21.6 27 Distributions Made and Proposed Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Cash dividends on ordinary shares declared and paid $M $M Final dividend for the year-ended 31 March 2016 at $0.011 per share 5.0 Interim dividend for the year-ended 31 March 2017 at $0.013 per share 5.9 Final dividend for the year-ended 31 March 2017 at $0.033 per share 15.3 Interim dividend for the year-ended 31 March 2018 at $0.014 per share 6.5 Total cash dividends paid 21.8 10.9 The Directors have proposed that the Company will pay a full-year dividend for the year-ended 31 March 2018 amounting to 3.5 US Cents per share.
Proposed final dividends on ordinary shares are subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 August 2018, and are not recognised as a liability at 31 March 2018.
28 Share-Based Payments On 25 June 2015, and in connection with the reorganisation of the Group immediately prior to admission of the Companys shares for trading on the London Stock Exchange, participants with existing options outstanding under the Pentagon Holdings SARL approved share plans were offered to exchange their options for new options over shares in Sophos Group plc.
On 11 June 2015, and in connection with the admission of the Companys shares for trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Companys Board of Directors approved the following share-based payment plans: The Sophos Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2015, 2015 LTIP The 2015 LTIP plan aims to motivate and retain employees and align their interest with shareholders.
Under the plan the remuneration committee of the Board can award the following types of awards: Performance Share Units, Restricted Share Units, Share Options, Conditional Share Awards, Cash-Based Awards or Forfeitable Shares.
Sophos Group SAYE Option Scheme 2015 SAYE The SAYE plan aims to encourage wider share ownership amongst UK employees of the Group by offering an HMRC approved share save scheme, whereby employees are offered options to buy shares at a discount following a pre-set savings period.
129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 28 Share-Based Payments continued Sophos Group 2015 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP The ESPP plan aims to encourage wider share ownership amongst US employees of the Group by offering options compliant with Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Employees are offered options to buy shares at a discount following a pre-set savings period.
Sophos Group International SAYE Option Scheme 2015 International SAYE The International SAYE plan aims to encourage wider share ownership amongst the Groups employees outside of the UK and US by offering options to buy shares at a discount following a pre-set savings period.
Share-Based Payment Expense The expense recognised for employee services received during the year is as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Cash-settled transactions 2.7 1.2 Equity-settled transactions 39.6 31.3 Total share-based payment expense 42.3 32.5 The cash-settled expense comprises cash-based awards together with certain social security taxes.
The carrying value of the liability as at 31 March 2018 was $3.1M 2017: $1.8M.
Share Options The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is measured as at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The following table illustrates the weighted average inputs into the Black-Scholes model in the year: Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Weighted average share price $ cents 628.23 291.00 Weighted average exercise price $ cents 516.70 234.00 Expected volatility 38.20% 42.40% Expected life of options years 2.08 3.20 Risk free rate 1.49% 0.92% Dividend yield 3.56% 0.62% The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $ cents 185.33 2017: $ cents 51.75.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical share price volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
An increase in the expected volatility will increase the estimated fair value.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, taking into account the effects of exercise restrictions, non-transferability and behavioural considerations.
An increase in the expected life will increase the estimated fair value.
130 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the year are set out below: Year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended 31 March 2017 Number WAEP Number WAEP 000s pence 000s pence Outstanding at the start of the year 16,973 79.9 22,677 51.8 Awarded 1,667 317.2 1,725 162.0 Forfeited 648 138.6 642 105.0 Exercised 3,768 92.7 6,787 33.9 Outstanding at the end of the year 14,224 94.0 16,973 79.9 Exercisable at the end of the year 10,030 58.3 10,958 59.0 The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was pence 512 2017: pence 262.
Options outstanding at the end of the year had the following range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual terms WARCT : 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Exercise price Number WARCT Number WARCT $ Cents pence 000s Years 000s Years $ 1.8598 153 3.2 $ 47.5891 259 2.2 676 3.2 $ 51.9154 32 5.7 $ 59.7813 8,134 4.7 9,972 5.7 $ 70.7937 300 6.2 378 7.2 $ 91.2452 23 6.2 175 7.2 $ 155.7461 2,742 6.5 3,523 7.5 $ 210.8078 371 6.9 419 7.9 162.0000 1,537 1.9 1,645 2.9 371.0000 620 2.9 367.8800 238 0.3 Outstanding at the end of the year 14,224 4.6 16,973 5.9 Restricted Shares The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share price WASP on date of award of, and movements in, non-vested restricted shares in the year: Year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended 31 March 2017 Number WASP Number WASP Restricted shares 000s $ Cents 000s $ Cents Outstanding at the start of the year 127 155.75 127 155.75 Vested 63 155.75 Outstanding at the end of the year 64 155.75 127 155.75 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 28 Share-Based Payments continued Restricted Share Units The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share price WASP on date of award, and movements in, restricted share units RSUs and cash based awards granted under the 2015 LTIP: Year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended 31 March 2017 Number WASP Number WASP Restricted share units 000s pence 000s pence Outstanding at the start of the year 15,350 215.92 9,389 264.74 Awarded 6,337 453.14 10,930 187.00 Forfeited 1,421 284.15 1,652 209.94 Released 5,426 218.49 3,317 261.81 Outstanding at the end of the year 14,840 316.09 15,350 215.92 RSUs and cash-based awards vest as to 25 per cent 20 per cent in the case of RSUs with a five year vesting period on the anniversary of the award and the remaining 75 per cent or 80 per cent in the case of RSUs with a five year vesting period quarterly thereafter.
Performance Share Units The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share price WASP on date of award, and movements in, performance share units PSUs granted under the 2015 LTIP: Year-ended 31 March 2018 Year-ended 31 March 2017 Number WASP Number WASP Performance share units 000s pence 000s pence Outstanding at the start of the year 6,024 219.41 2,785 265.00 Awarded 1,719 440.50 4,090 186.75 Forfeited 197 223.96 745 203.99 Released 106 265.00 Outstanding at the end of the year 7,546 269.65 6,024 219.41 PSUs vest on one vesting date following a three year vesting period which will comprise three financial years.
The awards are divided into three equal parts which will each be subject to a separate annual performance condition linked to the financial performance of the Group.
29 Pension Schemes The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and to similar or state pension schemes overseas for the benefit of the employees and Directors.
The assets of the schemes are administered by trusts or other bodies in funds independent from the Group.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the funds and amounted to $8.4M 2017: $6.5M.
Contributions of $1.3M 2017: $1.5M to the defined contribution pension scheme were outstanding, but not overdue, at 31 March 2018.
132 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 30 Related Party Transactions The consolidated financial information includes the financial information of Sophos Group plc and the subsidiaries listed in the following table: Country of Subsidiary Principal activity Class of Percentage incorporation undertaking registered address shares held of shares held 3 Australia Sophos Pty Ltd Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Level 11, 1 Elizabeth Plaza, North Sydney, NSW 2060, Australia 3 Canada Sophos Inc Selling IT security solutions Common 100% 3400, 350-7th Ave SW, Calgary AB T2P 3N9, Canada 3 France Sophos Sarl Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% River Ouest, 80 Quai Voltaire, 95870 Bezons, France 3 Germany Sophos Holdings GmbH Holding Company Ordinary 100%  1, 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany 4 Sophos Technology GmbH Research and Development Ordinary 100% Amalienbadstr.
41 Bau 52 76227 Karlsruhe, Germany 3 Hong Kong Sophos Hong Kong Co Ltd Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Unit K, 12 F. MG Tower, No.
133 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong 3 Hungary Sophos Hungary Kft Research and Development Ordinary 100% Aliz Utca, 1 Office Garden, Irodahaz A Epulet, 1117 Budapest, Hungary India Sophos Technology Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 10 Private Ltd Sophos House, Saigulshan Complex, Beside White House, Panchwati Cross Road, Ahmedabad 380006, Gujarat, India Ireland Sophos Security Research and Development Ordinary 100% 3 Technology Ltd Unit C D, Building 2100, Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, T12 KV8R, Republic of Ireland 3 Italy Sophos Italia Srl Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Via Tonale 26, CAP 20125 Milano MI, Italy 3 Japan Sophos KK Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Izumi Garden Tower 10F, 1-6-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku Tokyo 106-6010 Japan 2 Luxembourg Aspen Finance Co Sarl Financing Company Ordinary 100% 1-3, Boulevard fide la Foire, L-1528, Luxembourg 3 Netherlands Sophos BV Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Hoevestein 11B, 4903 SE Oosterhout NB, Netherlands 8 Threatstar Holding BV Holding Company Ordinary 100% 9 Threatstar BV Research and Development Ordinary 100% 8 SurfRight BV Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Lansinkesweg 4, 7553 AE Hengelo, Netherlands Singapore Sophos Computer Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 3 Security Pte Ltd 60 Paya Lebar Road, #08-13 Paya Lebar Square, Singapore 409051 3 Spain Sophos Iberia Srl Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Calle Orense 81, 28020 Madrid, Spain 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 30 Related Party Transactions continued Country of Subsidiary Principal activity Class of Percentage incorporation undertaking registered address shares held of shares held 3 Sweden Sophos AB Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Frgatan 33, 164 51 Kista, Stockholms ln, Sweden 3 Switzerland Sophos Schweiz AG Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% Bernstrasse 388, 8953 Dietikon, Switzerland 5 Astaro Trading AG Historical purchasing entity Ordinary 100% Blumenaustr.
28, 8200 Schaffhausen, Switzerland 3 Taiwan Sophos Taiwan Ltd Services Company Ordinary 100% 5F-4, No.
1 Chongqing S. Road, Zhongzheng Dist.
Taipei City 100 Taiwan R. O. C. Turkey Sophos Turkey Technoji Services Company Ordinary 100% 3 Ltd Sirketi 19 Mays Mah.
No: 4 2 Kadky, stanbul, Turkey 1 UK Sophos Holdings Ltd Holding Company Ordinary 100% 2 Sophos Treasury Ltd Financing Company Ordinary 100% 2 Sophos Limited Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 3 Sophos Overseas Limited Services Company Ordinary 100% 3 Sophos Nominees Limited Share nominee company Ordinary 100% The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, OX14 3YP, UK 3 USA Sophos Inc Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 3 Van fide Graaff Drive, 2nd Floor, Burlington, MA 01803, USA 6 Cyberoam Inc Services Company Ordinary 100% 10 Schalks Crossing Road, Suite 501-329, Plainsboro, NJ 08536, USA 7 Reflexion Networks Inc Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 1209 Orange St, Wilmington, County of New Castle fide 19801, USA 7 Invincea, Inc Selling IT security solutions Ordinary 100% 11 Sandboxie Holdings, LLC Services Company Ordinary 100% 2711 Centerville Rd Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle, fide 19808, USA 1 Shares held by Sophos Group Plc 5 Shares held by Sophos Technology GmbH 9 Shares held by Threatstar Holding BV 2 Shares held by Sophos Holdings Ltd 6 Shares held by Sophos Technology Private Ltd 10 S hares held by Sophos Limited and Sophos Nominees Limited 3 Shares held by Sophos Limited 7 Shares held by Sophos Inc 11 Shares held by Invincea, Inc 4 Shares held by Sophos Holdings GmbH 8 Shares held by Sophos BV 134 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Related Parties During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related parties.
During the year-ended 31 March 2018, no provisions were made for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2017: $Nil.
Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities other than subsidiaries are unsecured, interest free and cash settlement is expected within 60 days of invoice.
Terms and conditions for transactions with subsidiaries are the same, with the exception that balances are placed on inter-company accounts with no specified credit period.
The Group has not provided or benefitted from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
The Company and certain subsidiaries have provided unsecured guarantees to certain third parties within the normal course of business, the majority of which were in favour of certain lenders in respect of some of the Groups borrowing facilities.
As at 31 March 2018, these guarantees totalled $308.8M 2017: $349.2M relating to the Groups financing facilities.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel Including Directors Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Short-term employee benefits 9.1 9.7 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments equity-settled 17.7 16.0 Total 26.9 25.8 Short-term employee benefits comprise fees, salaries, benefits and bonuses earned during the year as well as nonmonetary benefits.
Post-employment benefits comprise the cost of providing defined contribution pensions to senior management in respect of the current period.
Share-based payments comprise the cost of senior managements participation in share-based payment plans for the period as measured by the fair value of awards in accordance with IFRS2.
31 Business Combinations The Group has not entered into any business combinations during the year-ended 31 March 2018.
In the prior-year, on 21 March 2017, Sophos Inc. acquired for cash 100 per cent of the share capital of Invincea, Inc. a company based in Fairfax, Virginia, United States.
The acquisition is significantly strengthening the Groups industry leading next-generation endpoint protection product by adding Invincea, Inc. s machine learning and artificial intelligence technology threats.
Acquisition-related expenses of $4.1M have been excluded from the consideration transferred and have been recognised as an expense within General finance and administration exceptional items.
135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 31 Business Combinations continued Assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the day of acquisition were as follows: Book value Adjustment Fair value $M $M $M Non-current assets: Intangible assets Intellectual property 18.5 18.5 Customer relationships 1.2 1.2 Plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 1.3 1.3 Deferred tax asset 13.8 13.8 Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 0.3 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 8.7 8.7 Current liabilities: Deferred revenues 6.1 2.0 4.1 Trade and other payables 3.7 3.7 Lease obligations Net assets recognised at the date of acquisition 5.8 13.0 18.8 Cash paid 95.9 Contingent consideration 19.3 Goodwill arising on acquisition Invincea, Inc. 96.4 Prior to the acquisition, Invincea, Inc. operated in a complimentary market sector to the Group and, accordingly, the results of Invincea, Inc. are incremental to those of the Group.
Revenue of $529.7M for the twelve-months to 31 March 2017 includes $0.2M in respect of Invincea, Inc.
The impact of Invincea, Inc. on the operating loss of the Group for the periodended 31 March 2017 was insignificant.
Had Invincea, Inc. been owned since 1 April 2016, revenue for the year-ended 31 March 2017 would have increased over the reported revenue by approximately $19.1M.
The impact on the operating loss of the Group would have been $7.0M.
Included in the assets acquired was a deferred taxation balance of $13.8M.
The deferred tax asset relates to tax losses of $11.3M, deferred revenue of $1.1M and intangible assets of $1.4M.
Sufficient profits are forecasted, in the timeframe in which the Group forecasts, against which the recognised tax losses will be offset.
136 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Intellectual Property Silent Break Security In the prior-year, on 18 November 2016, Sophos Limited entered into an agreement to buy for cash the trade and assets of Silent Break Security LLC and acquire the Intellectual Property of PhishThreat, a phishing attack simulator used to train users to spot phishing attacks, dangerous attachments and bogus scripts.
The Group also secured the ongoing services of certain key employees.
Fair value $M Assets acquired 3.1 Cash paid 3.0 Contingent consideration 1.2 Goodwill arising on asset acquisition from Silent Break Security LLC 1.1 Had the trade and assets of Silent Break Security LLC been owned since 1 April 2016, the impact on the operating loss of the Group would have been insignificant.
Barricade Security Systems Limited In the prior-year, on 20 October 2016, Sophos Limited acquired for cash 100 per cent of the share capital of Barricade Security Systems Limited, a company based in Cork, Ireland.
The company was a start-up company providing cloud-based security analytics and the acquisition has strengthened the Groups machine learning and artificial intelligence expertise.
Fair value $M Non-current assets 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other payables 0.5 Net liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition 0.3 Cash paid 1.9 Goodwill arising on acquisition Barricade Security Systems Limited 2.2 Prior to the acquisition, Barricade Security Systems Limited had immaterial revenues and all trading ceased on the day of acquisition.
The impact of Barricade Security Systems Limited on the operating loss of the Group for the period is insignificant.
Had Barricade Security Systems Limited been owned since 1 April 2016, the impact on the operating loss of the Group would have been insignificant.
Goodwill arose in all the above business combinations because the cost of the combination included amounts in relation to the benefit of expected synergies, future market development and the assembled workforce.
These benefits are not recognised separately from goodwill because they do not meet the recognition criteria for identifiable intangible assets.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year-ended 31 March 2018 32 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired $M $M Consideration paid, satisfied in cash: Invincea, Inc. 3.7 95.9 Intellectual Property - Silent Break Security 3.0 Barricade Security Systems Limited 1.9 Reflexion Networks Inc. 1.2 1.2 Net cash purchased 0.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash 4.9 101.7 Effect of movements in Non-cash exchange 31 March 2017 Cash flow movements rates 31 March 2018 Movement in net debt $M $M $M $M $M Cash at bank and in hand 62.3 1.1 6.1 67.3 Short-term deposits 5.8 46.3 0.7 52.8 Cash and cash equivalents 68.1 45.2 6.8 120.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.1 0.1 Bank loans 345.6 50.1 1.1 9.7 306.3 Gross debt 345.7 50.2 1.1 9.7 306.3 Net debt 277.6 95.4 1.1 2.9 186.2 Effect of movements in Non-cash exchange 31 March 2016 Cash flow movements rates 31 March 2017 Movement in net debt $M $M $M $M $M Cash at bank and in hand 49.7 16.2 3.6 62.3 Short-term deposits 17.1 8.7 2.6 5.8 Cash and cash equivalents 66.8 7.5 6.2 68.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.1 0.1 Bank loans 324.7 24.1 0.9 4.1 345.6 Gross debt 324.9 24.0 0.9 4.1 345.7 Net debt 258.1 16.5 0.9 2.1 277.6 Non-cash movements comprise amortisation of facility fees.
138 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 33 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Operating lease arrangements $M $M Amount recognised for the year: Property 12.5 10.8 Other 1.6 1.4 Total 14.1 12.2 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 $M $M Within one year 14.0 12.0 In the second to fifth years inclusive 34.8 34.8 After five years 19.7 20.6 Total 68.5 67.4 Commitments for the Acquisition of Property, Plant and Equipment At 31 March 2018 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $Nil 2017: $0.2M.
Guarantees At 31 March 2018 the Group had outstanding guarantees provided to third parties of $1.3M 2017: $1.2M.
Legal Proceedings The Group is involved in a number of legal proceedings that are incidental to our business.
Although it is possible that adverse decisions or settlements may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not currently possible to estimate the potential loss or losses.
The final outcome of these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material impact on the business.
Litigation is currently in process against an entity within the Group by RPost Holdings Inc.
The company allege patent infringements and claim unspecified damages.
In accordance with IAS 37.92, the Group does not provide further information on the grounds that this could seriously prejudice the outcome of the litigation.
The Directors are of the opinion that the claim can be successfully resisted by the Group.
34 Principal Exchange Rates Year-ended Year-ended Principal exchange rates 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Translation of Sterling into US dollar $:1.00 Average 1.3264 1.3200 Closing 1.4028 1.2505 Translation of Euro into US dollar $:1.00 Average 1.1664 1.1017 Closing 1.2299 1.0696 When calculating performance measures on a constant currency basis, the Group uses the closing balance sheet rate of the previous year.
35 Events After the Reporting Period There are no material events after the reporting period which require disclosure under IAS10.
