Financial Statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for items that are required by IFRS to be measured at fair value, principally certain financial instruments.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union IFRS, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements set out on pages 92 to 147 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies, except for the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations noted below.
Details of the application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards that became applicable in 2018 are set out below.
These Financial Statements are presented in millions of Sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2018 and the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2018, which incorporate the Financial Statements of Spectris plc and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the Group has entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an economic activity and exists only when decisions relating to the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the control.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, under which the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the joint venture.
When the Groups share of the losses of a joint venture exceeds the Groups interest in that joint venture the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 26 to 30.
In addition, Note 27 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups net debt balance at 31 December 2018 was 297.1m 2017: 50.5m, with available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 467.9m 2017: 406.5m.
The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis on the Groups forecasts to 31 March 2020, the maturity profile of its financial facilities and liabilities Notes 17 and 28 and the ability of the Group to re-finance these obligations as they fall due.
The principal liquidity risk is mitigated through its financial risk management policies Note 27.
For the foreseeable future, the Board has a high level of confidence that the Group will have the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent, including the impact of reasonably possible adverse scenarios.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Financial Statements.
There are no key sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
Further information on the going concern of the Group can be found on page 37 in the Viability Statement.
New standards and interpretations adopted In the current year the Group has applied a number of new standards and amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Details of the new standards that have had a material impact on the Groups Statement of Financial Position are set out below.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has adopted IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' using the modified retrospective approach, which means that the cumulative impact on adoption has been recognised in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018.
Comparatives have not been restated.
IFRS 15 provides a single, principles-based, five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers, and it replaced the separate model for goods and services of IAS 18 Revenue.
Management carried out a comprehensive impact assessment which included scoping the Groups revenues to identify different revenue streams and performing sample contract reviews to determine the appropriate revenue recognition treatment under IFRS 15.
To ensure a consistent approach across the Group, the exercise was supported centrally through setting the approach to transition and providing the appropriate tools and guidance.
Revenue is derived from a single performance obligation which is either the sale of goods or the provision of services.
Details of the Groups revenue recognition accounting policy are provided in Note 1 section b, Summary of significant accounting policies.
97 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Spectris plc 97 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued The overall impact on transition on 1 January 2018 for the Group is as follows: Decrease in current Decrease in Increase in Increase in and deferred tax retained earnings deferred income inventories net liabilities m m m m Group 21.0 38.2 10.9 6.3 The 6.3m decrease in net current and deferred tax liabilities consists of a 0.2m increase in current tax assets, a 4.4m decrease in deferred tax liabilities and a 1.7m increase in deferred tax assets.
If IFRS 15 had not been adopted the revenue for the year ending 31 December 2018 would have increased by 1.7m, operating profit would have increased by 0.2m and profit after tax increased by 0.2m.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The date of initial application i. e. the date on which the Group has assessed its existing financial assets and financial liabilities in terms of the requirements of IFRS 9 is 1 January 2018.
There is no requirement to restate comparatives.
IFRS 9 provides a new impairment model for financial assets, which requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
This requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all of its trade receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Group is applying the simplified approach and records lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
At 1 January 2018, the Group reviewed and assessed the amounts due from customers for the above changes, which resulted in the following overall impact on transition on 1 January 2018: Increase in trade Increase in current Increase in and other and deferred tax retained earnings receivables net liabilities m m m Group 2.4 2.9 0.5 The 0.5m increase in current and deferred tax net liabilities consists of a 0.3m increase in deferred tax liabilities and a 0.2m increase in current tax liabilities.
Adoption of IFRS 9 did not have any other material impact on the Groups statement of financial position.
There are no other standards adopted during 2018 that have a material impact on the Group.
New accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2018 which, therefore, have not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 16 Leases Transition to IFRS 16 for the Group will take effect from 1 January 2019 with the half-year results for June 2019 being IFRS 16 compliant, and the first Annual Report published in accordance with IFRS 16 being for the year ended 31 December 2019.
IFRS 16 provides a single model for lessees which recognises a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, with exceptions available for short-term and low-value leases.
The impact of IFRS 16 will be to recognise a lease liability and a corresponding asset in the Statement of Financial Position for leases currently classified as operating leases.
The most significant impact will be that the Groups land, building and car leases will be recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group plans to apply IFRS 16 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognised at the date of initial application of 1 January 2019.
Right-of-use assets for all leases will be measured on transition as if IFRS 16 had always been applied.
The overall impact on transition on 1 January 2019 for the Group is estimated to be as follows: Increase in Decrease in property, plant Increase in lease Decrease in trade Increase in retained earnings and equipment liabilities and other payables deferred tax assets m m m m m Group 4 66 72 1 1 In 2019, the Group estimates that it expects to incur a finance charge of between 2m to 4m, reflecting the unwinding of the discount on the lease liabilities with depreciation on right-of-use assets of approximately 13m to 15m.
These two items effectively replace the operating lease rentals previously charged to profit before taxation under IAS 17 Leases.
In addition, the Group expects that operating cash flows will increase and financing cash flows decrease by approximately 18m to 20m as repayment of the principal portion of the lease liabilities will be classified as cash flows from financing activities.
The Groups activities as a lessor are not material and hence the Group does not expect any significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group intends to apply the exemptions available in IFRS 16 for excluding low-value assets and short-term leases from the requirements of the standard.
Further assessment of IFRS 16 is ongoing.
From the review work carried out so far, the Group has identified the key judgements in applying IFRS 16 to be selection of an appropriate discount rate and determining whether lease extension and termination options included in the contract are reasonably certain to be exercised.
98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The Groups future lease commitments for non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2018 are 79.0m see Note 30.
This is higher than the estimated increase in lease liabilities on adoption of IFRS 16, predominantly due to the impact of discounting on lease liabilities and the exclusion of low-value assets and short-term leases from IFRS 16.
There are no other standards that are not yet effective and that would be expected to have a material impact on the entity in the current or future reporting periods and on foreseeable future transactions.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required where the choice of specific policy, assumption or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, should it later be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the course of preparing these Financial Statements in accordance with the Groups accounting policies, no judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements have been made, other than those involving estimation.
Management considers the following to be key areas of uncertainty for the Group due to the possibility of material change in the next year.
In preparing these Financial Statements, no areas of critical accounting judgement or key sources of estimation uncertainty have been identified in relation to Brexit.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty i Taxation The Group operates in a number of countries and is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant estimation is required in determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature complex and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements interpretation of country-specific tax laws and the likelihood of settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount provided which could have a consequent adverse impact on the results and net position of the Group.
The assumptions and estimates which have been applied in the determination of taxation are detailed in Note 8.
Details of the accounting policies applied in respect of taxation are set out on page 101. ii Retirement benefit plans Accounting for retirement benefit plans under IAS 19 revised requires an assessment of the future benefits payable in accordance with actuarial assumptions.
The discount rate and rate of retail price inflation RPI assumptions applied in the calculation of plan liabilities, which are set out in Note 20, represent a key source of estimation uncertainty for the Group.
Details of the accounting policies applied in respect of retirement benefit plans are set out on page 103. iii Impairment reviews Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based on a value in use model with future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant CGU with terminal values calculated applying a long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows, which are based on operating company forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the discount rates used are dependent upon management estimates.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in impairment reviews to change with a consequential adverse impact on the results and net position of the Group.
A reasonably possible change in assumptions used in the impairment review for the Concept Life Sciences CGU over the next 12 months could result in a material impairment of up to 30.0m to the goodwill carrying value of 105.5m.
Details of this sensitivity and the assumptions used in the impairment review are set out in Note 11.
Details of the accounting policies applied in respect of goodwill are set out on page 100.
Spectris plc 99 Spectris plc 99 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued b Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by Group entities to all years presented in these Financial Statements.
Business combinations and goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for the interests in subsidiary undertakings over the net fair value to the Group of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Contingent consideration is initially recognised as a liability with changes to estimates of contingent consideration reflected in operating profit unless they occur during the 12-month measurement period, in which situation the amount of goodwill recognised on the acquisition is adjusted.
Adjustments to contingent consideration are treated as an adjusting item for the purposes of alternative performance measures see Note 2.
Transaction costs on a business combination are expensed as incurred in the Consolidated Income Statement and treated as an adjusting item for the purposes of alternative performance measures see Note 2.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised, and any impairment losses are not subsequently reversed.
The net book value of goodwill at the date of transition to IFRS has been treated as deemed cost.
On the subsequent disposal or discontinuance of a previously-acquired business, the relevant goodwill is dealt with in the Consolidated Income Statement except for the goodwill already charged to reserves.
From 1 January 2004, goodwill is allocated on acquisition to CGUs that are anticipated to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill relates and comparing it against the net book value.
This estimate of recoverable amount is determined annually and additionally when there is an indication that a CGU may be impaired.
The Groups identified CGUs are smaller than the reportable operating segments in Note 3.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors such as the near-term business outlook for the cash-generating unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash flow performance.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Intangible assets and amortisation The cost of acquiring software including associated implementation costs where applicable that is not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment is classified as an intangible asset.
Self-funded research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless development expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
These criteria include demonstration of the technical feasibility, intent of completing a new intangible asset that is separable and that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits.
From the point where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic lives of the assets to which they relate.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination that are separable from goodwill are recognised initially at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Other acquired intangible assets including software not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment are initially recognised at cost plus any associated implementation costs where applicable.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits, otherwise it is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life determined on an asset-by-asset basis or underlying contractual life.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software 3 to 5 years.
Patents, contractual rights and technology up to 10 years, dependent upon the nature of the underlying contractual right.
Customer-related and trade names 3 to 20 years, dependent upon the underlying contractual arrangements and specific circumstances such as customer retention experience.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost comprises the purchase price paid and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Tangible assets arising from a business combination are recognised initially at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Depreciation is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value which is reviewed annually of property, plant and equipment over its estimated useful economic life.
Depreciation commences on the date the assets are available for use within the business and the asset carrying values are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
The depreciation charge is revised where useful lives are different from those previously estimated, or where technically obsolete assets are required to be written down.
Where parts of an item of plant and equipment have separate lives, they are accounted for and depreciated as separate items.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property and automotive testing tracks 20 to 40 years.
Short leasehold property over the period of the lease.
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Inventories Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Inventory acquired as part of business combinations is valued at fair value less cost to sell.
Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to bring the inventory to its existing location and condition.
In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Inventory is accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis or, in some cases, a weighted-average basis, if deemed more appropriate for the business.
Provisions are made to write down slow-moving, excess and obsolete items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historical and projected usage with regard to quantities on hand.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are carried at original invoice amount which is considered a reasonable proxy for fair value and are subsequently held at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The provision for impairment of receivables is based on lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses are calculated by assessing historic credit loss experience, adjusted for factors specific to the receivable and operating company.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits held on call or with maturities of less than three months at inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets, liabilities and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets, liabilities and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition and when management is committed to the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised at the amounts expected to be paid to counterparties and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
In respect of warranties, a provision is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefit is probable.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and when there is a valid expectation that such a plan will be carried out.
Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Tax positions are reviewed to assess whether a provision should be made based on prevailing circumstances.
Tax provisions are included within current taxation liabilities.
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and their corresponding tax bases.
No provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits by overseas subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realised, or the liability settled based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date.
Deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of intra-group dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Spectris plc 101 Spectris plc 101 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Foreign currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined with reference to the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the Statement of Financial Position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions are determined using the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, and are charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the Income Statement items of subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange.
Statement of Financial Position items are translated into Sterling at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to the translation reserve within equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
On disposal of an overseas subsidiary, any cumulative exchange movements relating to that subsidiary held in the translation reserve are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments may be purchased to hedge the Groups exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The accounting policies applied in these circumstances are described below.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are measured at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective-interest basis.
Financial instruments Recognition The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Measurement When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, being the consideration given or received plus directly attributable transaction costs.
In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available, fair value is determined by reference to price quotations for similar instruments traded.
Originated loans and receivables are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective-interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset.
This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Originated loans and receivables are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group.
102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets, is impaired.
A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
For trade receivables the Group recognises impairment provisions based on lifetime expected credit losses.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses Euro-denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
To the extent that the hedge is effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies, caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, the changes in the value of the borrowings are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in foreign exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Employee benefits The Group operates defined benefit post-retirement benefit plans and defined contribution pension plans.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan as the present value of the plans liabilities less the fair value of the plans assets.
The operating and financing costs of defined benefit plans are recognised separately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, plan administrative expense, any gains or losses on settlement or curtailments, and past service costs where benefits have vested.
Finance items comprise the unwinding of the discount on the net asset surplus deficit.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising changes in plans liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amount of any pension fund asset recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
In certain countries, the Group participates in industry-wide defined benefit-type pension arrangements.
In such circumstances, it is not possible to determine the amount of any surplus or deficit attributable to the Group and the pension costs are accounted for as if the arrangements were defined contribution plans.
These are not material to the Group and, accordingly, no additional disclosures are provided.
Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Share-based payments Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is determined by an external consultant and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Where it is not possible to incentivise managers of the Groups operating companies with equity-settled options, they are issued with cashsettled options.
The charge for these awards is adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of options that vest, and the fair value is based on either the share price at date of exercise or the share price at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date if sooner.
Own shares Own equity instruments which are re-acquired own shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid to acquire such equity instruments is recognised within equity.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Spectris plc 103 Spectris plc 103 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 1.
Basis of preparation and summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue is measured based on the fair value of the consideration specified in a contract with a customer, net of returns and discounts, and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control of a product or service to a customer.
The Groups major revenue streams are the same as its reportable operating segments Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls.
The following table provides further details on the nature of each of the major revenue streams.
The table shows where each revenue factor forms more than 10% of the operating segments total revenue: Revenue derived from % of total Group Provision of Sale of goods Sale of goods with Sale of goods with Revenue stream sales 2018 services without installation simple installation complex installation Materials Analysis 34% Test and Measurement 33% In-line Instrumentation 19% Industrial Controls 14% Further details of the nature of each major revenue stream is provided below.
Materials Analysis Revenue from the provision of services, including ongoing support, servicing and maintenance, is recognised in line with the delivery of the service, either at a point in time or, for some ongoing services, over time.
Revenue from the sale of goods, where the goods are not required to be installed, is recognised at a point in time when legal title transfers to the customer, usually on delivery.
When the sale of goods is combined with installation, revenue recognition depends upon the nature of the installation.
Simple installations are those that the customer perceives as a separate performance obligation within the overall contract to deliver goods, whereas complex installations are those for which the installation is an integral part of the delivery of the goods.
Revenue is recognised for simple installations separately from the delivery of goods, and only at a point in time when the installation has occurred.
For complex installations, revenue is normally deferred until installation is complete.
For a small number of complex installations, revenue is recognised before installation when: a a significant period of time has elapsed since completion of the product: b an installation date has not been agreed despite multiple attempts to arrange: and c payment has been received from the customer.
Significant judgement is required for these installations.
Revenue from these arrangements represents approximately 1% of the segments total sales.
Occasionally, the initial contract covers both the supply of goods and ongoing support, servicing and maintenance.
For such contracts, revenue is allocated across each of the individual components in line with their relative price and value of the performance obligation and each element is accounted for as described above.
Payment is normally due immediately at the point that the performance obligation is completed.
For some of the segments business the customer may make partial payment in advance.
Such payments are recognised as contract liabilities until the performance obligation has been satisfied.
Sales-related warranties associated with the products cannot be purchased separately and they serve as an assurance that the products sold comply with agreed-upon specifications.
Test and Measurement Revenue from the provision of services, including ongoing support, servicing and maintenance, is recognised in line with the delivery of the service, either at a point in time or, for some ongoing services, over time.
Revenue from the sale of goods, where the goods are not required to be installed, is recognised at a point in time when legal title transfers to the customer on delivery.
For such contracts revenue is allocated across each of the individual components in line with their relative price and value of the performance obligation and each element is accounted for as described above.
104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements In-line Instrumentation Revenue from the sale of goods, where the goods are not required to be installed, is recognised at a point in time when legal title transfers to the customer, usually on delivery.
Simple installations are those that the customer perceives as a separate performance obligation within the overall contract to deliver goods.
Industrial Controls The segment sells products direct to the customer and to the wholesale market distributors.
For sale of products to retail customers and distributors, revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred, being when the goods have been shipped to the customer or wholesalers location.
Sales-related warranties associated with the products cannot be purchased separately and they serve as an assurance that the products sold comply with .
Interest payable and receivable Interest payable comprises the interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method and the unwinding of the discount factor on deferred or contingent consideration.
Interest receivable comprises interest income on cash and invested funds, together with interest income from the joint venture, and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as it accrues.
Alternative performance measures Policy Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under IFRS, as management believes these measures enable management and stakeholders to better assess the underlying trading performance of the businesses as they exclude certain items that are considered to be significant in nature and or quantum, foreign exchange movements and the impact of acquisitions and disposals.
The alternative performance measures APMs are consistent with how the businesses performance is planned and reported within the internal management reporting to the Board and Operating Committees.
Some of these measures are used for the purpose of setting remuneration targets.
The key APMs that the Group uses include like-for-like LFL organic performance measures and adjusted measures for the income statement together with adjusted financial position and cash flow measures.
Explanations of how they are calculated and how they are reconciled to an IFRS statutory measure are set out below.
Adjusted measures The Groups policy is to exclude items that are considered to be significant in nature and or quantum and where treatment as an adjusted item provides stakeholders with additional useful information to better assess the period-on-period trading performance of the Group.
The Group excludes certain items, which management have defined as: restructuring costs: amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related goodwill and other intangible assets: bargain purchase on acquisition: depreciation of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment: acquisition-related costs, deferred and contingent consideration fair value adjustments: profits or losses on termination or disposal of businesses: unwinding of the discount factor on deferred and contingent consideration: unrealised changes in the fair value of financial instruments: gains or losses on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances: and related tax effects on the above and other tax items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate see Note 8.
In November 2018, the Group announced the implementation of a Group-wide profit improvement programme.
The total costs of implementation of this programme are considered to be significant in both nature and amount.
On this basis the costs of the implementation of this programme are excluded from adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit including on a LFL basis is therefore presented before the impact of Project Uplift and profit improvement programme costs, which have been combined as restructuring for presentation purposes.
Adjusted operating profit after Project Uplift costs has been presented for ease of comparability between 2017 and 2018.
Spectris plc 105 Spectris plc 105 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Alternative performance measures continued LFL measures The Board reviews and compares current and prior year segmental sales and adjusted operating profit at constant exchange rates and excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals during the year.
The constant exchange rate comparison uses the current year segmental information, stated in each entitys functional currency, and translates the results into its presentation currency using the prior years monthly exchange rates, irrespective of the underlying transactional currency.
Within the In-line Instrumentation segment, the BTG business has large functional currency mismatches against its underlying transaction currencies which distort LFL comparison at times of significant currency movements.
Accordingly, we have modified the basis on which BTGs LFL results are translated into Sterling by using the actual underlying transaction currency mix for determining transactional gains losses to provide more accurate and reliable information on BTGs underlying performance.
The incremental impact of business acquisitions is excluded for the first 12 months of ownership from the month of purchase.
For business disposals, comparative figures for segmental sales and adjusted operating profit are adjusted to reflect the comparable periods of ownership.
The EMS business was disposed of on 31 May 2018 see Note 25 and the segmental LFL adjusted sales and adjusted operating profit for 2017 exclude the trading results for the last seven months of 2017.
The LFL measure is presented as a means of eliminating the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on the period-on-period statutory results as well as allowing the Board to assess the underlying trading performance of the businesses on a LFL basis for both sales and operating profit.
Based on the above policy, the adjusted performance measures are derived from the statutory figures as follows: Income statement measures a LFL adjusted sales by segment Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2018 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2018 sales by segment m m m m m Sales 541.1 522.6 312.2 228.3 1,604.2 Constant exchange rate adjustment 7.6 3.6 4.0 7.3 22.5 Acquisitions 44.5 25.9 1.7 72.1 LFL adjusted sales 504.2 500.3 314.5 235.6 1,554.6 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2017 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2017 sales by segment m m m m m Sales 464.9 487.3 310.9 262.5 1,525.6 Disposal of businesses 15.6 32.9 48.5 LFL adjusted sales 464.9 471.7 310.9 229.6 1,477.1 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements b Adjusted operating profit, operating margin and adjusted EBITDA Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2018 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2018 adjusted operating profit m m m m m Statutory operating profit 72.1 42.8 32.2 29.3 176.4 Restructuring costs 4.4 5.2 3.0 3.0 15.6 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 1.4 6.4 4.2 0.2 12.2 Depreciation of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.6 0.8 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 17.3 12.2 3.2 10.6 43.3 Adjusted operating profit 95.4 67.2 42.6 43.1 248.3 Constant exchange rate adjustment 0.2 0.7 0.7 1.3 0.1 Acquisitions 1.2 2.7 0.3 1.2 LFL adjusted operating profit 96.8 63.8 42.2 44.4 247.2 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2017 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2017 adjusted operating profit m m m m m Statutory operating profit 68.6 55.6 29.5 28.7 182.4 Restructuring costs 4.2 5.3 2.8 3.5 15.8 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 1.8 0.1 0.4 1.7 0.4 Depreciation of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 12.7 14.6 3.3 11.3 41.9 Bargain purchase on acquisition 1.9 1.9 Adjusted operating profit 87.3 74.2 36.0 41.8 239.3 Disposals 4.2 4.5 8.7 LFL adjusted operating profit 87.3 70.0 36.0 37.3 230.6 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2018 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2018 operating margin % % % % % Statutory operating margin 13.3 8.2 10.3 12.8 11.0 Adjusted operating margin 17.6 12.9 13.6 18.9 15.5 LFL adjusted operating margin 19.2 12.8 13.4 18.8 15.9 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2017 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total 2017 operating margin % % % % % Statutory operating margin 14.8 11.4 9.5 10.9 12.0 Adjusted operating margin 18.8 15.2 11.6 15.9 15.7 LFL adjusted operating margin 18.8 14.8 11.6 16.2 15.6 Spectris plc 107 Spectris plc 107 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 2.
Alternative performance measures continued 2018 2017 Adjusted operating profit after Project Uplift costs m m Adjusted operating profit 248.3 239.3 Project Uplift costs 10.8 15.8 Adjusted operating profit after Project Uplift costs 237.5 223.5 2018 2017 Restructuring costs m m Profit improvement programme 4.8 Project Uplift costs 10.8 15.8 Restructuring costs 15.6 15.8 2018 2017 Adjusted EBITDA Note m m Statutory operating profit 176.4 182.4 Depreciation 12 30.3 25.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 11 49.1 47.5 EBITDA 255.8 255.5 Restructuring costs 15.6 15.8 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 12.2 0.4 Bargain purchase on acquisition 1.9 Adjusted EBITDA 283.6 269.8 EBITDA is calculated as statutory operating profit before depreciation and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as EBITDA excluding other adjusting items as defined previously.
This measure is used for the purpose of assessing capital management and covenant compliance and is reported to the Group Executive Committee.
c Adjusted net finance costs 2018 2017 Note m m Statutory net finance costs 7 13.5 4.5 Net loss gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 7 7.2 1.3 Unwinding of discount factor on deferred and contingent consideration 7 0.6 0.7 Adjusted net finance costs 5.7 5.1 d Adjusted profit before taxation 2018 2017 Note m m Adjusted operating profit 2b 248.3 239.3 Share of post-tax results of joint venture 13 1.2 Adjusted net finance costs 2c 5.7 5.1 Adjusted profit before taxation 241.4 234.2 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements e Adjusted earnings per share 2018 2017 Adjusted earnings Note m m Statutory profit after tax 185.2 234.8 Adjusted for: Restructuring costs 15.6 15.8 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 12.2 0.4 Depreciation of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment 12 0.8 0.7 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 43.3 41.9 Bargain purchase on acquisition 1.9 Profit on disposal of businesses 56.3 100.5 Net loss gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 7 7.2 1.3 Unwinding of discount factor on deferred and contingent consideration 7 0.6 0.7 Tax effect of the above and other non-recurring items 8 14.8 6.3 Adjusted earnings 193.8 184.3 Adjusted earnings per share Note 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 10 117.5 119.2 Adjusted earnings per share pence 164.9 154.6 Basic earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 'Earnings Per Share' are disclosed in Note 10.
Financial position measures f Net debt 2018 2017 Note m m Bank overdrafts 17 5.8 1.3 Bank loans unsecured 17 364.4 187.2 Total borrowings 370.2 188.5 Cash and cash equivalents including held for sale 16 73.1 138.0 Net debt 297.1 50.5 Cash flow measures g Adjusted operating cash flow 2018 2017 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 178.1 190.6 Acquisition-related costs paid 10.8 2.8 Restructuring cash outflow 8.6 16.8 Net income taxes paid 37.7 47.0 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 97.0 74.3 Proceeds from government grants 2.9 1.2 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and software 5.6 0.5 Adjusted operating cash flow 146.7 184.6 1 Adjusted operating cash flow conversion 59% 77% 1.
Adjusted operating cash flow conversion is calculated as adjusted operating cash flow as a proportion of adjusted operating profit.
Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments comprise acquisition costs of 7.4m 2017: 3.4m that have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement under IFRS 3 Revised 'Business Combinations' and other fair value adjustments relating to deferred and contingent consideration comprising a charge of 4.8m 2017: credit of 3.0m.
Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments are included within administrative expenses.
Acquisition-related costs have been excluded from the adjusted operating profit and acquisition costs paid of 10.8m 2017: 2.8m have been excluded from the adjusted operating cash flow.
Spectris plc 109 Spectris plc 109 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3.
Operating segments The Group has four reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group's strategic business units.
These units offer different applications, assist companies at various stages of the production cycle and are focused towards specific industries.
These segments reflect the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker considered to be the Board on a regular basis to assist in making decisions on capital allocated to each segment and to assess performance.
The segment results include an allocation of head office expenses.
The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group's reportable segments: Materials Analysis provides products and services that enable customers to determine structure, composition, quantity and quality of particles and materials during their research and product development processes, when assessing materials before production, or during the manufacturing process.
The operating companies in this segment are Concept Life Sciences, Malvern Panalytical and Particle Measuring Systems.
Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment, software and services for product design optimisation, manufacturing control, microseismic monitoring and environmental noise monitoring.
The operating companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration, ESG Solutions, HBM, Millbrook and VI-grade.
In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and online controls as well as associated consumables and services for both primary processing and the converting industries.
The operating companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Vibro, BTG, NDC Technologies and Servomex.
Industrial Controls provides products and solutions that measure, monitor, control, inform, track and trace during the production process.
The operating companies in this segment are Omega Engineering, Red Lion Controls and Microscan disposed 2 October 2017.
Further details of the nature of these segments and the products and services they provide are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 3 and 18 to 25.
Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2018 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Information about reportable segments m m m m m Segment revenues 541.4 524.2 312.4 228.4 1,606.4 Inter-segment revenue 0.3 1.6 0.2 0.1 2.2 External revenue 541.1 522.6 312.2 228.3 1,604.2 Operating profit 72.1 42.8 32.2 29.3 176.4 1 Share of post-tax results of joint venture 1.2 1 Profit on disposal of businesses 56.3 1 Financial income 2.5 1 Finance costs 16.0 Profit before tax 218.0 1 Taxation charge 32.8 Profit after tax 185.2 1.
Not allocated to reportable segments.
Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2017 Total Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls m m m m m Segment revenues 465.2 487.5 311.1 262.9 1,526.7 Inter-segment revenue 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 1.1 External revenue 464.9 487.3 310.9 262.5 1,525.6 Operating profit 68.6 55.6 29.5 28.7 182.4 1 Profit on disposal of businesses 100.5 1 Financial income 1.9 1 Finance costs 6.4 Profit before tax 278.4 1 Taxation charge 43.6 Profit after tax 234.8 1.
110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Reportable segment profit is consistent with that presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Inter-segment revenue reflects the movements in internal cash flow hedges with inter-segment pricing on an arm's length basis.
Segments are presented on the basis of actual inter-segment charges made.
Carrying amount of Carrying amount of segment assets segment liabilities 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Materials Analysis 628.3 408.4 167.0 117.4 Test and Measurement 725.9 644.4 146.9 123.2 In-line Instrumentation 279.5 270.9 59.6 54.4 Industrial Controls 329.2 321.4 29.6 27.4 Total segment assets and liabilities 1,962.9 1,645.1 403.1 322.4 Cash and borrowings 73.1 138.0 370.2 188.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 1.4 2.2 0.5 Other receivable joint venture 38.9 Investment in joint venture 5.0 Retirement benefit liabilities 32.1 34.0 Taxation 12.9 14.4 52.7 49.4 Consolidated total assets and liabilities 2,093.2 1,798.9 860.3 594.8 Segment assets comprise: goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise: trade and other payables, provisions and other payables, which can be reasonably attributed to the reported operating segments.
Unallocated items represent all components of net debt, derivative financial instruments, other receivable joint venture, investment in joint venture, defined benefit plan liabilities and current and deferred taxation balances.
Additions to Depreciation, amortisation non-current assets and impairment 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Materials Analysis 186.6 15.1 26.8 19.6 Test and Measurement 98.7 75.0 28.4 28.0 In-line Instrumentation 7.0 14.0 9.5 9.6 Industrial Controls 13.0 9.9 14.7 15.9 Total segments 305.3 114.0 79.4 73.1 Other receivable joint venture 38.9 Investment in joint venture 5.0 Consolidated total 349.2 114.0 Spectris plc 111 Spectris plc 111 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 3.
Operating segments continued Geographical segments The Group's operating segments are each located in several geographical locations and sell on to external customers in all parts of the world.
No individual country amounts to more than 3% of revenue, other than those noted below.
The following is an analysis of revenue by geographical destination.
Principally in Denmark and Switzerland.
Not allocated to reportable geographic area in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 4.
Revenue Disaggregation of revenue The Group derives its revenue from the provision of goods and services both at a point in time and over time.
IFRS 15 paragraph 114 requires an entity to disaggregate revenue recognised from contracts with customers into categories that depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
This disaggregation will depend on the entitys individual facts and circumstances.
The Group has assessed that the disaggregation of revenue by operating segments is appropriate in meeting this disclosure requirement as this is the information regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to evaluate the financial performance of the entity.
The Group also believes that presenting a disaggregation of revenue based on the timing of transfer of goods or services provides users of the Financial Statements with useful information as to the nature and timing of revenue from contracts with customers.
Timing of revenue recognition: 2018 m At a point in time: Materials Analysis 480.5 Test and Measurement 446.9 In-line Instrumentation 298.8 Industrial Controls 228.3 1,454.5 Over time: Materials Analysis 60.6 Test and Measurement 75.7 In-line Instrumentation 13.4 Industrial Controls 149.7 Revenue 1,604.2 The Group's material revenue streams have an expected duration of one year or less.
The Group has therefore applied the practical expedient in IFRS 15 paragraph 121 to not disclose information about its remaining performance obligations.
No individual customer accounted for more than 2% of external revenue in either 2018 or 2017.
Total revenue for the Group, after including financial income of 2.5m 2017: 1.9m see Note 7, was 1,606.7m 2017: 1,527.5m.
Spectris plc 113 Spectris plc 113 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 5.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2018 2017 Note m m Net foreign exchange gains losses 2.1 2.1 Research and development expense 96.2 105.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 11 47.1 47.5 Impairment of intangible assets 11 2.0 Bargain purchase on acquisition 1.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 30.3 25.6 Operating lease rental payments 20.1 18.9 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 402.4 381.9 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software 1.9 0.1 2018 2017 Auditor's remuneration m m Fees payable to the Company's auditor for audit of the Company's annual accounts 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the audit of the Company's subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.2 Total audit-related fees 1.9 1.7 Fees payable to the Company's auditor for other services: 1 audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 2.0 1.8 1. Review of the half-year Financial Statements 6.
Employee costs and other information Employee costs, including Directors' remuneration, comprise: 2018 2017 Note m m Wages and salaries 518.8 494.0 Social security costs 86.2 82.6 Defined benefit pension plans: current service cost 20 2.0 2.2 past service cost credit 20 2.7 1.7 Defined contribution pension plans 20 17.8 15.3 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 5.1 5.4 Cash-settled share-based payment expense 1.1 2.8 633.7 600.6 2018 2017 Directors' remuneration m m Short-term benefits 2.8 3.0 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 0.7 0.7 3.5 3.7 Further details of Directors' remuneration and share options are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 78.
2018 2017 Average number of employees Number Number Production and engineering 3,814 3,748 Sales, marketing and service 4,786 4,116 Administrative 947 849 9,547 8,713 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 7.
Financial income and finance costs 2018 2017 Financial income m m Interest receivable 0.5 0.6 Income on receivable from joint venture 2.0 Net gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 1.3 2.5 1.9 2018 2017 Finance costs m m Interest payable on loans and overdrafts 7.3 4.9 Net loss on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 7.2 Unwinding of discount factor on deferred and contingent consideration 0.6 0.7 Net interest cost on pension plan obligations 0.6 0.7 Other finance costs 0.3 0.1 16.0 6.4 Net finance costs 13.5 4.5 Net interest costs of 6.8m 2017: 4.3m for the purposes of the calculation of interest cover comprise interest receivable of 0.5m 2017: 0.6m and interest payable on loans and overdrafts of 7.3m 2017: 4.9m.
Spectris plc 115 Spectris plc 115 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 8.
Taxation 2018 2017 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total m m m m m m Current tax charge 3.9 37.1 41.0 6.3 58.3 64.6 Adjustments in respect of current tax of prior years 0.1 2.0 2.1 1.0 4.8 5.8 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences Note 21 3.3 1.9 5.2 1.1 5.3 6.4 Deferred tax changes in US tax rate Note 21 0.9 0.9 8.8 8.8 Taxation charge 0.5 32.3 32.8 4.2 39.4 43.6 The standard rate of corporation tax for the year, based on the weighted average of tax rates applied to the Group's profits, is 26.0% 2017: 28.6%.
The tax charge for the year is lower 2017: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation.
2018 2017 m m Profit before taxation 218.0 278.4 Corporation tax charge at standard rate of 26.0% 2017: 28.6% 56.7 79.6 Profit on disposal of business taxed at lower rate 16.0 17.1 Net impact of US tax reform measures 0.9 8.0 Effect of intra-group financing 4.9 5.4 Other non-deductible expenditure 3.8 3.8 Movements on unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.4 Tax credits and incentives 4.1 5.0 Change in tax rates excluding US 0.3 Adjustments to prior year current and deferred tax charges 2.5 4.3 Taxation charge 32.8 43.6 'Net impact of US tax reform measures' above refers to the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
In 2017, this comprised a credit of 8.8m arising from the re-measurement of net US deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 at the lower US tax rate, net of a one-off charge of 0.8m on accumulated foreign profits of the Group's US subsidiaries.
In 2018, this comprises a credit of 0.9m arising as a prior year adjustment in respect of re-measuring the prior year net deferred tax liabilities.
'Tax credits and incentives' above refers principally to research and development tax credits and other reliefs for innovation such as the UK Patent Box regime and Dutch Innovation Box regime.
Factors that may affect the future tax charge The Group's tax charge in future years is likely to be affected by the proportion of profits arising, and the effective tax rates, in the various territories in which the Group operates, as well as changes in tax law affecting future periods.
Such law changes may affect the future availability or amount of existing tax reliefs or incentives.
Furthermore, the resolution of tax or other legal cases or investigations such as those mentioned below in respect of the UK's dividend taxation regime or the EU's State Aid investigation into aspects of UK tax legislation may result in a re-assessment of the Group's tax liabilities in respect of prior years.
2018 2017 Tax on items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income m m Tax credit charge on net loss gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts 0.5 0.7 Tax charge on re-measurement of net defined benefit obligations, net of foreign exchange 1.4 1.4 Aggregate current and deferred tax charge relating to items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.9 2.1 2018 2017 Tax on items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity m m Tax credit in relation to share-based payments 0.1 0.5 Aggregate current and deferred tax credit on items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 0.1 0.5 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The following tax credits charges relate to items of income and expense that are excluded from the Group's adjusted performance measures.
2018 2017 Tax on items of income and expense that are excluded from the Group's adjusted profit before tax m m Tax credit on amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets 9.6 12.9 Tax credit on depreciation of acquisition-related fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Tax credit arising from net impact of US tax reform measures 0.9 8.0 Tax credit on net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.6 0.1 Tax credit charge on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 0.5 0.3 Tax charge on profit on disposal of businesses 0.4 19.0 Tax credit on restructuring costs 3.5 4.5 Total tax credit 14.8 6.3 The effective adjusted tax rate for the year was 19.7% 2017: 21.3% as set out in the reconciliation below.
2018 2017 Reconciliation of the statutory taxation charge to the adjusted taxation charge m m Statutory taxation charge 32.8 43.6 Tax credit on items of income and expense that are excluded from the Group's adjusted profit before tax 14.8 6.3 Adjusted taxation charge 47.6 49.9 Management judgement is applied to determine the level of provisions required in respect of both direct and indirect taxes.
The Group is potentially subject to tax audits in many jurisdictions.
By their nature these are often complex and could take a significant period of time to be agreed with the tax authorities.
Judgement is therefore applied based on the interpretation of country-specific tax legislation and the likelihood of settlement.
The Group estimates and accrues taxes that will ultimately be payable when reviews or audits by tax authorities of tax returns are completed.
These estimates include judgements about the position expected to be taken by each tax authority.
The Group applies judgement in respect of possible tax audit adjustments primarily in respect of transfer pricing as well as in respect of financing arrangements and tax credits and incentives.
In respect of transfer pricing, the level of provision is determined by reference to management judgements of the adjustments that would arise in the event that certain intra-group transactions are successfully challenged as not being at arms length.
Management estimates of the level of risk arising from tax audit may change in the next year as a result of changes in legislation or tax authority practice or correspondence with tax authorities during a specific tax audit.
It is not possible to quantify the impact that such future developments may have on the Groups tax positions.
Actual outcomes and settlements may differ significantly from the estimates recorded in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is provided below in relation to tax provisions that are known to be potentially material.
Judgement is also applied relating to the recognition of deferred tax assets which are dependent on an assessment of the generation of future taxable income in the countries concerned in which temporary differences become deductible or in which tax losses can be utilised.
These estimates may change in the next year if there are changes in the forecast profitability of the relevant company.
The UKs dividend taxation regime prior to July 2009 is the subject of long-running litigation between HMRC and other taxpayers in relation to the tax charge on dividends received from EU-based companies.
The outcome of this dispute is likely to be relevant to the Group in respect of certain dividends received by UK Group companies before that date.
Pending resolution in the courts an amount of 8.8m 2017: 8.8m continues to be held as a current tax liability for the potential tax liabilities arising if the final decision is in HMRCs favour.
An amount of 5.4m 2017: 5.1m relating to accrued interest on the potential tax liabilities is also held as a tax-related provision see Note 19, and an amount of 1.3m 2017: 1.3m is held as a deferred tax asset in respect of future tax relief on the accrued interest.
The deferred tax asset in respect of future tax relief on the accrued interest has been reclassified from current tax during the current year.
In October 2017, the EU Commission opened a formal State Aid investigation into an exemption within the UKs current Controlled Foreign Company CFC regime introduced in 2013 for certain finance income.
The investigation is ongoing, but if the Commission ultimately concludes that the provisions do constitute State Aid then they would require the UK to recover any such aid from affected parties.
The Group has claimed the benefit of this exemption, and therefore may be adversely affected by the outcome of the investigation.
If the Commission were to conclude that the finance exemption with the UKs CFC regime constitutes State Aid and no other exemptions were available to the Group then, as at 31 December 2018, an additional liability of 18.0m 2017: 14.0m in respect of tax and 0.5m 2017: 0.3m in respect of interest would arise unless such a decision could be successfully challenged in the EU courts.
However, no provision has been made in respect of this investigation since we believe that it is more likely than not that no additional tax will ultimately be due.
Spectris plc 117 Spectris plc 117 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 9.
Dividends 2018 2017 Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to owners of the Company in the year m m Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 37.5p 2016: 34.0p per share 44.5 40.5 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 20.5p 2017: 19.0p per share 23.7 22.7 68.2 63.2 2018 2017 Amounts arising in respect of the year m m Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 20.5p 2017: 19.0p per share 23.7 22.7 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 40.5p 2017: 37.5p per share 46.8 44.7 70.5 67.4 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 May 2019 and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year but adjusted for the effects of dilutive options.
The key features of the Company's share option schemes are described in Note 23.
Basic earnings per share 2018 2017 Profit after tax m 185.2 234.8 Weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 117.5 119.2 Basic earnings per share pence 157.6 197.0 Diluted earnings per share 2018 2017 Profit after tax m 185.2 234.8 Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 117.5 119.2 Weighted average number of dilutive 5p ordinary shares under option millions 0.6 0.9 Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares that would have been issued at average market value from proceeds of dilutive share options millions 0.1 0.4 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 118.0 119.7 Diluted earnings per share pence 156.9 196.1 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Patents, contractual Customerrights and related and Goodwill technology trade names Software Total Cost Note m m m m m At 1 January 2017 805.9 221.4 251.3 59.7 1,338.3 Additions separately acquired 12.7 12.7 Additions business combinations 24 16.8 5.6 10.3 32.7 Transfers to assets held for sale 22.2 6.4 8.9 37.5 Disposals 1.2 1.2 Disposal of business 25 4.1 6.3 1.3 11.7 Foreign exchange difference 24.5 12.5 15.3 1.1 53.4 At 31 December 2017 771.9 201.8 236.1 70.1 1,279.9 Additions separately acquired 2.6 15.4 18.0 Additions internal development 4.7 4.7 Additions business combinations 24 121.8 18.8 53.2 193.8 Reclassification 7.3 7.3 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange difference 21.4 7.2 9.4 2.1 40.1 At 31 December 2018 915.1 227.8 306.0 85.9 1,534.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 151.6 131.8 114.3 41.1 438.8 Charge for the year 22.3 19.6 5.6 47.5 Transfers to assets held for sale 5.7 7.8 13.5 Disposals 1.2 1.2 Disposal of business 25 5.7 0.5 6.2 Foreign exchange difference 7.2 7.6 7.7 0.4 22.9 At 31 December 2017 144.4 135.1 117.9 45.1 442.5 Charge for the year 17.8 23.7 5.6 47.1 Impairment 2.0 2.0 Reclassification 6.0 6.0 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange difference 4.4 4.7 5.1 1.1 15.3 At 31 December 2018 148.8 153.6 152.7 50.1 505.2 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 766.3 74.2 153.3 35.8 1,029.6 At 31 December 2017 627.5 66.7 118.2 25.0 837.4 Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the acquisition.
The Groups identified cash-generating units are smaller than the four reportable segments, being the 14 operating companies.
Goodwill arising on a bolt-on acquisition is combined with the goodwill in the existing Group company and is not considered separately for impairment purposes, since such acquisitions are quickly integrated.
Spectris plc 119 Spectris plc 119 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The most significant amounts of goodwill are as follows: 2018 2017 Pre-tax Pre-tax Goodwill discount rate Goodwill discount rate m % m % Malvern Panalytical 140.1 11.5 139.2 10.7 Omega Engineering 115.3 15.5 109.0 12.8 HBM 106.1 11.7 103.4 11.8 Concept Life Sciences 105.5 13.4 BTG 69.5 13.5 68.1 11.1 Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration 66.4 11.7 65.0 11.2 Millbrook 58.1 12.7 54.1 12.1 Red Lion Controls 41.6 15.8 39.6 13.8 Servomex 25.4 13.2 24.8 12.3 Other 38.3 12.9-17.9 24.3 13.1-13.8 766.3 627.5 Included within Other are four 2017: three cash-generating units, in which none of the goodwill balances are considered to be individually significant.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
As part of the annual impairment review, the carrying amount of goodwill has been assessed with reference to its recoverable amount determined based on value in use.
In assessing value in use, the forecast projected cash flows of each cash-generating unit, which are based on actual operating results, the most recent budget for the next financial year as approved by the Board, detailed strategic review projections and an assumed long-term growth rate to perpetuity, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are based on relate to future business performance over the forecast period five years, projected long-term growth rates and the discount rates applied.
The forecast cash flows include managements latest estimates on sales volumes and pricing, production and other costs.
The key estimates applied in the impairment review are the forecast level of revenue, operating margins and the proportion of operating profit converted to cash in each year.
A long-term growth rate of 2.0% 2017: 2.0% has been consistently applied in the impairment review for all cash-generating units based on current forecast global industrial production growth rates, and long-term GDP growth rates for the Groups primary markets.
The cash flow projections have been discounted using cash-generating unit specific pre-tax discount rates of between 11.5% and 17.9% 2017: 10.7% and 13.8%.
These rates have been determined by taking into account the size of business, specific geographical and industry risk factors, as well as the period of ownership by the Group.
As a result of the annual impairment review, no goodwill impairment charge has been recognised within operating profit in the Consolidated Income Statement 2017: nil.
Sensitivity analysis For all cash-generating units, except Concept Life Sciences CLS, the Directors do not consider that there are any reasonably possible sensitivities for the business that could arise in the next 12 months that could result in an impairment charge being recognised.
Performance at CLS was below expectations due to a range of factors including a reduction in project work from two major clients, delays in gaining new laboratory and manufacturing accreditations GLP and GMP, as well as a period of sub-optimal performance at one of its analytical laboratories.
These internal issues largely reflected the state of the business on acquisition, which was in the process of integrating previous acquisitions into two divisions, as well as distraction and disruption caused to the commercial organisation triggered by the acquisition.
Remedial action to improve operational effectiveness is already having an impact: the preparatory work for the manufacturing accreditations has progressed well and the funnel of opportunities across the business has developed strongly.
Management believes that the end markets for CLS are still very strong as customers continue to look to outsource analytical services and pharmaceutical development work.
Due to the under-performance, and as a result of its recent addition to the Group, the value in use approximates to the carrying value.
This means that any change in the key assumptions in isolation, assuming unchanged values for the other assumptions, would cause an impairment loss to be recognised in respect of the CLS cash-generating unit.
The key assumptions are: 2019 CLS operating performance includes revenue growth of 25% compared to 2018 on a 12-month comparable basis with a gross margin improvement of 9pp compared to 2018 6pp compared to the recent run-rate in gross margin achieved by the business : over the period 2020 to 2023, annual growth in organic revenue is assumed to be 12%: gross margin increases by 3pp: long-term growth rate of 2%: and pre-tax discount rate of 13.4% which includes 3pp specific company risk premium.
120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The following table represents the impact of changes in the key assumptions noted above: Impairment loss Change in key assumption m Revenue growth and gross margin lower than expected see below Up to 30.0 A 1pp increase in the pre-tax discount rate from 13.4% to 14.4% 19.0 A 1pp reduction in the long-term growth rate from 2% to 1% 18.0 Forecast cash flows for CLS are dependent upon an improvement in gross margin for the operating company over the five-year forecast period reflecting double digit revenue growth over the same period.
Whilst performance in 2018 has been behind expectations, management considers that the improvement in the gross margin is anticipated to be 12 percentage points over the five-year period, supported by the recovery of performance in 2019 and the change in mix as the business moves towards higher value integrated drug discovery and development services, which yield a higher gross margin.
On the assumption that 2019 performance is delivered as forecast, and the pre-tax discount rate and long-term growth rate are maintained at 13.4% and 2%, respectively, from the value in use model, management considers the following represents a reasonably possible range of performance outcome, based on market and peer data combined with historic performance information: annual organic revenue growth over the 2020 to 2023 period could reduce by up to 3pp per annum from 12% to 9%: gross margin declines by 2pp.
The above reasonably possible change in assumptions relating to forecast cash flows would lead to an impairment of up to 30.0 million including the consequential effect of the containment of overhead costs following lower revenue growth.
Other intangible assets Of the total amortisation charge of 47.1m 2017: 47.5m, the amount attributable to the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets was 41.3m 2017: 41.9m.
Internally generated assets arising from the capitalisation of qualifying development expenditure typically have a finite expected useful life of four to ten years.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profit.
The Group has capitalised 4.7m of internally-generated intangible assets from development expenditure in 2018 2017: nil.
The trade names and technology assets recognised on the acquisition of Omega Engineering in 2011, and included within the Industrial Controls reportable segment, are considered significant by the Directors as they represent 32% 2017: 43% of total customer-related and trade names, and 14% 2017: 19% of total patents, contractual rights and technology, respectively.
The carrying amount of customerrelated and trade name intangible assets at 31 December 2018 is 49.3m 2017: 50.3m and is being amortised over 20 years with the remaining amortisation period being 13 years.
The carrying amount of patents, contractual rights and technology intangible assets at 31 December 2018 is 10.1m 2017: 12.4m and is being amortised over ten years with the remaining amortisation period being three years.
The customer-related and technology assets recognised on the acquisition of CLS in 2018, and included within the Materials Analysis reportable segment, are considered significant by the Directors as they represent 24% of total customer-related and trade names, and 14% of total patents, contractual rights and technology, respectively.
The carrying amount of customer-related and trade name intangible assets at 31 December 2018 is 36.8m and is being amortised over 15 years with the remaining amortisation period being 14 years.
The carrying amount of patents, contractual rights and technology intangible assets at 31 December 2018 is 10.2m and is being amortised over ten years, with the remaining amortisation period being nine years.
Spectris plc 121 Spectris plc 121 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Leasehold Plant and property property equipment Total Cost Note m m m m At 1 January 2017 203.5 16.4 221.9 441.8 Additions separately acquired 10.1 2.1 53.3 65.5 Additions business combinations 24 3.1 3.1 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.6 0.1 3.3 5.0 Disposals 0.4 8.7 9.1 Disposal of business 25 0.1 5.1 5.2 Foreign exchange difference 1.1 0.8 3.9 5.8 At 31 December 2017 210.9 17.1 257.3 485.3 Additions separately acquired 30.2 1.5 41.6 73.3 Additions business combinations 24 2.9 0.5 12.1 15.5 Reclassifications 6.9 0.3 7.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 4.5 4.5 Disposals 2.5 0.9 11.3 14.7 Adjustments to assets held for sale 0.5 0.6 0.1 Foreign exchange difference 3.5 0.4 3.9 7.8 At 31 December 2018 247.9 18.9 295.8 562.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 53.3 11.4 138.3 203.0 Charge for the year 5.6 1.3 18.7 25.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.1 2.5 3.6 Disposals 0.4 8.1 8.5 Disposal of business 25 0.1 4.3 4.4 Foreign exchange difference 0.3 0.5 2.4 2.6 At 31 December 2017 58.1 11.7 139.7 209.5 Charge for the year 6.2 1.4 22.7 30.3 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.6 0.6 Disposals 1.0 10.0 11.0 Adjustments to assets held for sale 0.3 0.5 0.2 Foreign exchange difference 0.4 0.2 2.5 3.1 At 31 December 2018 64.2 12.5 154.4 231.1 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 183.7 6.4 141.4 331.5 At 31 December 2017 152.8 5.4 117.6 275.8 The amount included in the cost of plant and equipment of assets in the course of construction was 47.9m 2017: 38.8m.
No borrowing costs were capitalised during either year.
Of the total depreciation charge of 30.3m 2017: 25.6m, the amount attributable to the depreciation on fair value adjustments to acquisition-related property, plant and equipment was 0.8m 2017: 0.7m.
Additions are net of 2.9m 2017: 1.2m relating to the receipt of government grants.
122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 13.
Investment in joint venture The Group has one joint venture at 31 December 2018, Brel & Kjr EMS Pty Ltd EMS B&K.
The Group has an effective 45% ownership interest in EMS B&K.
EMS B&K's place of incorporation and principal place of business is Australia and its principal activity is environmental monitoring.
2018 m At 1 January 2018 Addition see Note 25 6.0 Share of post-tax results 1.2 Foreign exchange difference 0.2 At 31 December 2018 5.0 The Group did not receive dividends from its joint venture during the year.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group's joint venture is set out below.
The summarised information below has been presented on a 100% basis in accordance with IFRS after adjustments by the Group for equity accounting purposes and to comply with the Group's accounting policies.
2018 m Current assets 10.9 Non-current assets 17.5 Current liabilities 6.7 Non-current liabilities including 9% preference shares of 70.8m 71.8 Net liabilities of joint venture 50.1 Income statement information: 1 June 2018 to 31 December 2018: Revenue 16.1 Loss from continuing operations 2.7 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements: 2018 m Net liabilities of joint venture 50.1 Proportion of the Group's ownership interest in the joint venture 45% 22.5 Goodwill 27.5 Carrying amount of the Group's interest in the joint venture 5.0 The Group does not have any other joint ventures or associates.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 78.2 66.4 Work in progress 53.8 39.4 Finished goods and goods held for resale 84.4 70.2 216.4 176.0 In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory to write it down to its net realisable value based on an assessment of technological and market developments specific to the relevant business, and an analysis of historical and projected usage on an individual item or product line basis.
Expenses relating to inventories written down during the year totalled 7.4m 2017: 9.9m.
Finished goods and goods held for resale expected to be utilised after 12 months amounted to 1.5m 2017: 3.7m.
Spectris plc 123 Spectris plc 123 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 15.
Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Current Trade receivables 311.8 269.2 Prepayments 20.7 14.2 VAT and similar taxes receivable 11.8 10.7 Other receivables 21.5 24.5 Contract assets accrued revenue 15.7 5.3 381.5 323.9 Non-current Other receivable joint venture 38.9 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.
Standard credit terms provided to customers differ according to business and country, and are typically between 30 and 60 days.
Trade receivables are stated after the provision for impairment of 4.6m 2017: 7.0m.
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to its carrying amount due to the short-term maturities associated with these items.
There is no impairment risk identified with regards to other receivables where no amounts are past due.
The non-current other receivable joint venture arose on the formation of the joint venture and is held at amortised cost.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic region was: 2018 2017 m m UK 23.5 15.6 Germany 27.7 22.7 France 13.5 12.0 Rest of Europe 53.3 52.9 USA 83.6 68.4 Rest of North America 13.9 16.6 Japan 17.5 14.2 China 29.9 23.0 South Korea 8.3 7.1 Rest of Asia 25.1 21.1 Rest of the world 15.5 15.6 311.8 269.2 Expected credit losses The Group measures the loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses 'ECL'.
The ECL on trade receivables are estimated using a provision matrix by reference to past default experience of the debtor and an analysis of the debtor's current financial position, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtor, general economic conditions of the industry in which the debtor operates and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date.
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting period.
The Group writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e. g. when the debtor has been placed under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings.
The ageing of trade receivables and related provisions for impairment at 31 December was: 2018 2017 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 199.7 0.2 188.4 0.3 One month past due 55.4 0.1 47.3 Two months past due 21.5 0.1 16.8 0.1 Three months past due 12.7 0.1 8.2 Four months past due 7.2 0.1 4.3 More than four months past due 19.9 4.0 11.2 6.6 316.4 4.6 276.2 7.0 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 7.0 13.2 Adoption of IFRS 9 2.9 At 1 January restated 4.1 13.2 Provision for impairment of receivables 1.1 4.5 Impairment loss utilised 0.7 0.8 Disposal of business 0.4 Foreign exchange difference 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 4.6 7.0 All of the above impairment losses relate to receivables arising from contracts with customers.
Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 Note m m Cash and cash equivalents included in current assets 73.1 137.9 Cash and cash equivalents included in assets held for sale 0.1 Bank overdrafts included in current borrowings 17 5.8 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 67.3 136.7 The Group's exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 28.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2017 included 2.4m of restricted cash which was held in escrow relating to the acquisition of Millbrook in 2016.
This was paid during the year.
Borrowings 2018 2017 Current Interest rate Repayable date m m Bank overdrafts on demand 5.8 1.3 Bank loans unsecured 20.0m uncommitted facility Relevant LIBOR 50bps on demand 17.9 Total current borrowings 23.7 1.3 2018 2017 Non-current Interest rate Maturity date m m Bank loans unsecured 94.8m Fixed 2.56% 14 October 2020 84.8 84.1 Bank loans unsecured 116.2m Fixed 1.15% 9 September 2022 104.0 103.1 Bank loans unsecured $800.0m revolving credit facility Relevant LIBOR 55bps 31 July 2023 157.7 Total non-current borrowings 346.5 187.2 Total current and non-current borrowings 370.2 188.5 Total unsecured borrowings 364.4 187.2 At 31 December 2018, the Group had available 467.9m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of its US Dollar $800m revolving credit facility 2017: 406.5m of $550m, of which all conditions precedent had been met.
Movements in total unsecured borrowings are reconciled as follows: 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 187.2 222.1 Proceeds from borrowings 175.5 Repayment of borrowings 41.0 Effect of foreign exchange rates 1.7 6.1 At 31 December 364.4 187.2 Spectris plc 125 Spectris plc 125 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 18.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 Current m m Trade payables 70.5 59.7 Accruals 106.4 105.6 Customer advances 27.1 21.4 Contract liabilities 74.9 38.7 Deferred and contingent consideration on acquisitions and disposals 9.7 6.3 VAT and similar taxes payable 11.1 12.3 Other payables 44.4 28.5 344.1 272.5 2018 2017 Non-current m m Contract liabilities 2.8 2.3 Deferred and contingent consideration on acquisitions and disposals 9.1 4.8 Other payables 15.5 13.6 27.4 20.7 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates to their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities associated with these items.
Total contract liabilities relate to the following product groups: 2018 m Materials Analysis 46.9 Test and Measurement 26.1 In-line Instrumentation 4.5 Industrial Controls 0.2 77.7 Significant changes in contract liabilities during the year The Group recognised 38.2m of additional deferred income as a result of adopting IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018 see Note 1 for further details, bringing the total contract liability balance to 79.2m.
Of this balance, 78.7m has been recognised as revenue during 2018.
The contract liability balance at 31 December 2018 includes 6.0m arising from businesses acquired during 2018 business combinations, of which 2.8m is in Materials Analysis and 3.2m in Test and Measurement.
There were no other significant changes in contract liability balances during the year.
Provisions Legal, Product contractual Reorganisation warranty and other Total m m m m At 1 January 2018 2.0 11.7 11.5 25.2 Provision during the year 5.6 9.1 3.9 18.6 Recognised on acquisitions 0.4 0.4 0.8 Utilised during the year 1.9 7.4 1.4 10.7 Released during the year 0.3 1.2 1.1 2.6 Foreign exchange difference 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2018 5.4 12.8 13.4 31.6 Provisions are all presented as current liabilities.
Reorganisation Reorganisation provisions relate to committed restructuring plans in place within the business.
Costs are expected to be incurred within one year and there is little judgement in determining the amount.
Product warranty Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and included within the Group's standard terms and conditions.
Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12-month period, but can extend to 36 months.
These extended warranties are not significant.
126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Legal, contractual and other Legal, contractual and other provisions mainly comprise amounts provided against open legal and contractual disputes arising in the normal course of business.
The Company has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or otherwise and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties.
Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations.
Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors' best estimate of the cost of settling current obligations.
Other provisions includes interest related to tax provisions of 5.4m 2017: 5.1m.
No provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against Group companies unless management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is probable that such proceedings may be successful.
Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the Directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that might be brought can be defeated successfully and, therefore, the possibility of any material outflow in settlement is assessed as remote.
Retirement benefit plans The Group operates funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for the Groups qualifying employees in the UK.
In addition, 14 overseas subsidiaries 2017: 14 in three overseas countries provide defined benefit plans.
Other UK and overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution plans invested in independent funds.
Defined benefit plans The UK, German, Dutch and Swiss plans provide pensions in retirement, death in service and in some cases disability benefits to members.
The pension benefit is linked to members final salary at retirement and their service life.
Since 31 December 2009, the UK plan has been closed to all service accruals.
The German and Dutch plans are closed to new members.
The UK plan is administered by a pension fund, but the Swiss and Dutch plans are held by insurance companies that are legally separate from the Group.
The majority of the overseas plan assets are insurance policies held in the Swiss plans, which are not matching in nature.
The UK plan is managed by a Board of Trustees that represents both employees and employer, who are required to act in the best interest of the plans participants and are responsible for setting certain policies e. g. investment, contribution and indexation policies of the various funds.
The plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
Inflation and interest rate hedges are taken out to mitigate against risks arising on the UK plan and some reinsurance exists in respect of the overseas plans.
The overseas plans are funded by the Groups overseas subsidiaries, and the UK plan has been funded in the past by both the Groups UK subsidiaries and the Company.
The assets of the UK plan are invested in accordance with Section 40 of the Pensions Act 1995.
Although the Act permits 5% of the plans assets to be invested in employer-related investments, the Trustees have elected that none of the plan assets are to be invested directly in Spectris plc shares.
The Trustees also hold interest rate and inflation swaps to help protect against the impact of changes in prevailing interest rates and price inflation, which, in conjunction with the corporate bond portfolio, aims to fully hedge against interest and inflation rate risks on the basis used by the Trustee to fund the plan.
Trustee investment in derivatives is only made in so far as they contribute to the reduction of investment risks or facilitate efficient portfolio management and are managed such as to avoid excessive risk exposure to a single counterparty or other derivative operations.
The funding requirements are based on the individual funds actuarial measurement framework set out in the funding policies of the various plans.
The Group has determined that, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the defined benefit plans, and in accordance with statutory requirements including minimum funding requirements of the plans of the respective jurisdictions, the present value of the refunds or reductions in future contributions is not lower than the balance of the total fair value of the plan assets less the total present value of obligations.
This determination has been made on a plan-by-plan basis.
As such, no decrease in the defined benefit asset was necessary at 31 December 2018.
The last full actuarial valuation for the UK plan was 31 December 2017, and for the overseas plans was 31 December 2018.
Where applicable, the valuations were updated to 31 December 2018 for IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits purposes by qualified independent actuaries.
The Groups contributions to overseas defined benefit plans during the year ended 31 December 2018 were 2.2m 2017: 2.2m.
Contributions for 2019 are expected to be 2.3m for the overseas plans.
Contributions to the Spectris Pension Plan UK ceased from 1 July 2012.
The contribution rates are subject to review at future valuations and periodic certifications of the schedule of contributions.
Spectris plc 127 Spectris plc 127 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 20.
Retirement benefit plans continued The assumptions used by the actuary to value the liabilities of the defined benefit plans were: 2018 2017 Overseas Overseas UK plan plans UK plan plans % p. a.
Discount rate 2.7 0.95 2.1 2.4 0.7 2.0 Salary increases n a 1.0 3.0 n a 1.0 3.0 Pension increases in payment 2.2 3.7 0.0 2.0 2.1 3.7 0.0 2.0 Pension increases in deferment 2.4 3.3 2.3 3.2 Inflation assumption 2.4 3.3 1.0 2.0 2.3 3.2 1.0 2.0 Interest credit rate 0.0 1.0 0.0 1.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2018 was approximately 14 years 2017: 17 years for the UK plan and 18.3 years 2017: 18.6 years for the overseas plans.
Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2018 valuation is based on the following tables: UK plan 92% S1PMA 96% S1PFA centred in 2006, future improvements in line with CMI 2017 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum and a smoothing parameter of 8 German plans Dr K Heubeck pension tables 2018 G Dutch plans A. G. Prognosetafel 2018 tables Swiss plan BVG 2015 CMI 1.50% Samples of the ages that pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows: Male Female Pensioners aged 65 in 2018 85.1 87.1 88.1 89.0 Pensioners aged 65 in 2028 86.5 87.8 89.3 89.9 UK plan Overseas plans Total Amounts recognised in the 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Consolidated Income Statement m m m m m m Current service cost 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.2 Net interest cost 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.7 Administrative cost 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.5 Past service cost credit 2.5 0.2 1.7 2.7 1.7 3.1 0.7 2.6 1.0 5.7 1.7 The current service cost and past service cost credit are recognised in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The net interest cost on the net defined benefit obligation is recognised in finance costs in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
During the year, insurance premiums for death-in-service benefits amounting to 0.3m 2017: 0.3m were paid.
There was a negative total return on plan assets in the year of 4.4m 2017: a positive return of 7.7m.
UK plan Overseas plans Total Amounts recognised in the 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m m m Actuarial gains 3.9 2.9 2.1 2.6 6.0 5.5 Foreign exchange losses 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 Net gains 3.9 2.9 1.5 3.0 5.4 5.9 UK plan Overseas plans Total Amounts recognised in the 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 125.7 137.4 57.4 54.7 183.1 192.1 Fair value of plan assets 113.2 124.1 37.8 34.0 151.0 158.1 Retirement benefit obligations 12.5 13.3 19.6 20.7 32.1 34.0 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements UK plan Overseas plans Total Reconciliation of movement in 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 retirement benefit obligations m m m m m m At 1 January 13.3 15.5 20.7 24.8 34.0 40.3 Current service cost 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.2 Net interest cost 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.7 Plan administrative cost 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.5 Past service cost credit 2.5 0.2 1.7 2.7 1.7 Contributions from sponsoring company and plan members 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.5 Benefits paid 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Actuarial gains 3.9 2.9 2.1 2.6 6.0 5.5 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 At 31 December 12.5 13.3 19.6 20.7 32.1 34.0 UK plan Overseas plans Total Analysis of movement in the present 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 value of the defined benefit obligation m m m m m m At 1 January 137.4 138.4 54.7 59.2 192.1 197.6 Current service cost 2.0 2.2 2.0 2.2 Interest cost 3.2 3.5 0.7 0.6 3.9 4.1 Past service cost credit 2.5 0.2 1.7 2.7 1.7 Contributions from plan members 1.2 1.3 1.2 1.3 Actuarial gains losses financial 4.1 0.6 1.8 0.7 5.9 0.1 Actuarial gains losses demographic 8.6 0.1 1.3 8.5 1.3 Actuarial gains losses experience 0.7 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.2 Benefits paid 5.4 4.8 1.6 4.0 7.0 8.8 Foreign exchange difference 1.9 1.4 1.9 1.4 At 31 December 125.7 137.4 57.4 54.7 183.1 192.1 Analysed as: Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 7.6 7.9 7.6 7.9 Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 125.7 137.4 49.8 46.8 175.5 184.2 UK plan Overseas plans Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Reconciliation of movement in fair value of plan assets m m m m m m At 1 January 124.1 122.9 34.0 34.4 158.1 157.3 Interest income on assets 2.9 3.1 0.4 0.3 3.3 3.4 Plan administration cost 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.5 Contributions from sponsoring company 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 Contributions from plan members 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Actuarial losses gains 8.1 3.2 0.4 1.1 7.7 4.3 Benefits paid 5.4 4.8 1.0 3.4 6.4 8.2 Foreign exchange difference 1.3 1.0 1.3 1.0 At 31 December 113.2 124.1 37.8 34.0 151.0 158.1 Spectris plc 129 Spectris plc 129 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 20.
Retirement benefit plans continued UK plan Overseas plans Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Fair value of assets m m m m m m Equity instruments 5.3 8.9 5.3 8.9 Corporate bonds 94.0 106.4 94.0 106.4 Government bonds 10.3 6.6 10.3 6.6 Cash and financial derivatives net 3.6 2.2 3.6 2.2 Insurance policies 37.8 34.0 37.8 34.0 113.2 124.1 37.8 34.0 151.0 158.1 The UK plan assets are invested in active markets which have a quoted market price.
The overseas plan assets are invested in insurance policies.
Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the sensitivity of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position to changes in the significant pension assumptions based on a reasonably expected change given current market conditions: Impact on retirement benefit obligations as at 31 December 2018 Change in assumption UK plan Overseas plans Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by 16.7m Decrease by 8.1m Rate of price inflation RPI Increase by 1% Increase by 11.6m Increase by 2.1m Assumed life expectancy at age 65 Increase by 1 year Increase by 4.1m Increase by 1.5m Defined contribution plans The total cost of the defined contribution plans for the year was 17.8m 2017: 15.3m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2018 or 31 December 2017.
Deferred tax The movement in the net deferred tax liability asset is shown below.
2018 2017 Note m m At 1 January 14.5 27.8 Adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 5.8 At 1 January restated 8.7 27.8 Foreign exchange difference 0.1 2.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 24 13.8 0.3 Disposal of businesses 1.0 2.0 Reclassified as assets held for sale 0.4 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax on re-measurement of net defined benefit liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.1 0.1 Credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 8 6.1 15.2 At 31 December 18.9 14.5 Comprising: Deferred tax liabilities 30.2 25.0 Deferred tax assets 11.3 10.5 18.9 14.5 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Unrealised Goodwill Accelerated profit on and other tax Accruals and Tax inter-company Pension intangible 2018 depreciation provisions losses transactions plans assets Other Total Net deferred tax assets liabilities m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 3.7 11.0 2.2 5.3 7.7 36.2 0.8 14.5 Adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 5.8 5.8 At 1 January 2018 restated 3.7 16.8 2.2 5.3 7.7 36.2 0.8 8.7 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.7 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 13.8 13.8 Disposal of business 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax on re-measurement of net defined benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.1 0.1 Charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 0.6 3.6 1.1 2.4 0.7 6.5 1.8 6.1 At 31 December 2018 4.3 13.2 1.1 8.3 7.0 45.2 1.0 18.9 Unrealised Goodwill Accelerated profit on and other tax Accruals and Tax inter-company Pension intangible 2017 depreciation provisions losses transactions plans assets Other Total Net deferred tax assets liabilities m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 5.1 19.6 2.4 5.7 9.3 58.9 0.8 27.8 Foreign exchange difference 2.4 2.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.3 Disposal of business 0.6 1.4 2.0 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.6 0.2 0.4 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax on re-measurement of net defined benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.1 0.1 Credited charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 1.4 8.0 0.2 0.4 0.2 21.0 1.6 15.2 At 31 December 2017 3.7 11.0 2.2 5.3 7.7 36.2 0.8 14.5 Spectris plc 131 Spectris plc 131 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 21.
Deferred tax continued Unrecognised temporary differences Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the following temporary differences due to the degree of uncertainty over both the amount and utilisation of the underlying tax losses and deductions in certain jurisdictions.
There is no expiry date associated with the remaining tax losses of 46.5m.
2018 2017 m m Tax losses 48.2 48.0 Other temporary differences 1.1 0.4 49.3 48.4 Phased reductions in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted in the UK Finance No.
2 Act 2015 and UK Finance Act 2016, respectively.
It is likely that the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption such that no UK tax would be due upon remitting these earnings to the UK.
However, 67.5m 2017: 54.7m of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed 3.8m 2017: 3.2m, of which only 1.9m 2017: 1.4m has been provided for as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends.
It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
Share capital and reserves 2018 2017 Number of Number of shares shares millions m millions m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each : At 1 January and 31 December 121.2 6.0 125.0 6.2 No ordinary shares were issued upon exercise under share option schemes during the year 2017: nil.
During the year, 3,825,802 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled by the Group 2017: nil as part of the share buyback programme announced on 5 March 2018, which concluded on 13 August 2018.
During the year, 111,207 2017: 93,153 of these shares were issued to satisfy options exercised by, and SIP matching shares awarded to, employees which were granted under the Group's share schemes.
In July 2018, the Group established an employee benefit trust EBT to operate the Spectris Share Incentive Plan SIP to all eligible UK-based employees.
The EBT holds shares in Spectris plc for the purposes of the SIP, further details of which are disclosed in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
At 31 December 2018, the EBT held 11,353 shares which were purchased from the market during the year.
The costs of funding and administering the plan are charged to the Income Statement in the period to which they relate.
Other reserves Movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The retained earnings reserve also includes own shares purchased by the Company and treated as treasury shares.
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity are as follows: Translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.
Hedging reserve This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective cash flow hedge relationships.
Merger reserve This reserve arose on the acquisition of Servomex Limited in 1999, a purchase satisfied substantially by the issue of share capital and therefore eligible for merger relief under the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve records the historical repurchase of the Company's own shares.
During the year, as a result of the share buyback programme, the capital redemption reserve increased by 0.2m, reflecting the nominal value of the cancelled ordinary shares.
132 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 23.
Share-based payments Spectris Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is used to grant share awards to senior executives and key employees that are settled in either equity or cash.
Equity-settled PSP awards are granted in the form of nominal share options.
Some PSP awards granted to UK employees are linked to a grant of market value share options under the terms of HMRCs tax-advantaged Company Share Option Plan Linked tax-advantaged awards.
Linked tax-advantaged awards are granted up to an aggregate value of 30,000, which is HMRCs limit.
The Linked tax-advantaged awards have the same performance and vesting conditions as the PSP awards to which they are linked.
When an employee chooses to exercise a PSP award which is linked to a Linked tax-advantaged award, both parts are also automatically exercised at the same time.
Should there be a gain on exercise from the Linked tax-advantaged award part, then a proportion of the PSP award will lapse to ensure that the overall gross value received from the combined exercise of these awards is no more than would have been delivered from a stand-alone equivalent PSP award.
Should there be no gain on exercise from the Linked tax-advantaged award part, then this part is forfeited and there is no reduction in the remaining PSP award.
Both cash and equity-settled PSP awards are expected to vest, subject to their performance conditions, after three years.
Vested equitysettled awards must be exercised within the next seven years, whereas vested cash-settled awards are paid out on or shortly after the vesting date.
From 2017 onwards, all PSP awards granted to Executive Directors are subject to an additional two-year holding period.
These PSP awards vest after five years three-year performance period plus two-year holding period and equity-settled awards must be exercised within the next five years.
Subject to the PSP awards vesting, participants receive additional dividend shares on the vested shares under the PSP award.
For PSP awards granted in or after 2014, the dividend shares are of equivalent value to the Companys dividends paid between the date of grant and the vesting date.
For PSP awards granted before 2014, dividend shares were of equivalent value to Companys dividends paid between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
PSP performance conditions Outstanding PSP awards granted to Executive Directors are subject to the following performance conditions: one-third subject to an adjusted earnings per share growth target EPS : one-third subject to an economic profit 'EP' target: and one-third subject to a Total Shareholder Return target TSR.
PSP awards granted to other members of the Executive Committee were subject to the same performance conditions up to 2016.
For 2017 onwards, PSP awards to the Executive Committee are subject to the following performance conditions: one-third subject to the same EPS target: one-third subject to the same EP target: and one-third solely subject to continuous employment over the three-year vesting period.
PSP awards granted to other senior head office managers were, until 2016, 50% subject to EPS and 50% subject to TSR.
From 2017 onwards, senior head office management have two-thirds of their PSP awards subject to EPS and the remaining one-third solely subject to continuous employment over the three-year vesting period.
PSP awards granted to executives and senior managers of the Groups operating companies in 2008 and 2009 were subject to an operating company profit target 50% and EPS 50%.
PSP awards granted between 2010 and 2016 had two-thirds subject to an operating company profit target and one-third subject to EPS.
For 2017 onwards, the performance conditions have been two-thirds operating company profit targets and one-third continuous employment over the three-year vesting period.
Normally, PSP awards granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves due to a qualifying reason, they receive a time pro-rated entitlement.
Restricted Shares Plan RSP RSP is used to grant cash-settled share awards to selected key employees within the Spectris Group.
RSP awards, which have been granted from 2014 onwards, are subject to the same rules as the PSP but give flexibility as to whether any performance conditions apply.
RSP awards cannot be granted to an Executive Director of Spectris plc.
Spectris Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The SAYE is a UK tax-advantaged all employee share option scheme.
UK employees could choose to save up to 500 per month over three years and then can use their savings to exercise options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company during a six-month window following the SAYE maturity date.
The exercise price of the SAYE options, which have no performance conditions attached to them, is set as the mid-market closing share price on the day before the SAYE invitation date.
No SAYE invitation has been made since September 2016.
Spectris Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP, a UK tax-advantaged share matching plan, was launched after it was approved by shareholders at the May 2018 AGM.
UK employees can invest up to 150 per month to buy ordinary shares in the Company Partnership shares tax efficiently and for every five Partnership shares purchased, the Company will gift one free ordinary share Matching share.
Matching shares need to be held in the SIP Trust for at least three years otherwise these shares are potentially subject to forfeiture.
The Company incurs a charge on any Matching shares awarded under the SIP although the charge in 2018 was less than 0.1m.
Spectris plc 133 Spectris plc 133 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 23.
Share-based payments continued The number of outstanding share incentives are summarised below: 2018 2017 Number Number Incentive plan thousands thousands Equity-settled: Performance Share Plan 1,615 1,576 Performance Share Plan Linked tax-advantaged 113 97 SAYE 45 86 Total equity-settled 1,773 1,759 Cash-settled: Performance Share Plan Phantom allocations and Restricted Share Plan 374 370 Total outstanding 2,147 2,129 Share options outstanding at the end of the year equity-settled 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Remaining average average Performance Share Plan contractual life Number exercise price Number exercise price Year of grant of options thousands thousands 2008 1 0.04 2009 1 year 13 0.04 20 0.04 2010 2 years 27 0.04 33 0.04 2011 3 years 31 0.04 42 0.04 2012 4 years 2 0.04 3 0.04 2013 5 years 2 0.04 2 0.05 2014 6 years 2 0.05 3 0.05 2015 7 years 16 0.05 421 0.05 2016 8 years 531 0.05 569 0.05 2017 9 years 441 0.05 482 0.05 2018 10 years 550 0.05 1,615 0.05 1,576 0.05 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the PSP awards is 8.68 years 2017: 8.67 years.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Weighted average fair Weighted average fair average value at average value at grant Number exercise price grant date Number exercise price date Performance Share Plan share options thousands thousands At 1 January 1,576 0.05 1,653 0.05 Granted 580 0.05 24.74 493 0.05 25.28 Addition of reinvested dividends 8 0.00 1 0.00 Exercised 68 0.05 66 0.04 Forfeited 481 0.05 505 0.05 At 31 December 1,615 0.05 1,576 0.05 Exercisable at 31 December 94 0.04 103 0.04 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Remaining average average Performance Share Plan Linked tax-advantaged contractual life Number exercise price Number exercise price Year of grant of options thousands thousands 2011 3 years 1 11.30 2 11.30 2012 4 years 2 17.31 2 17.31 2013 5 years 24.10 24.10 2015 7 years 5 21.97 34 21.94 2016 8 years 16 17.29 20 17.27 2017 9 years 36 26.00 39 26.02 2018 10 years 53 26.63 113 24.61 97 22.31 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the PSP Linked tax-advantaged awards is 9.11 years 2017: 8.84 years.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Weighted average fair Weighted average fair average value at average value at grant Number exercise price grant date Number exercise price date Performance Share Plan Linked tax-advantaged thousands thousands At 1 January 97 22.31 86 20.44 Granted 57 26.64 3.95 39 26.02 3.61 Exercised 5 19.11 Forfeited 36 22.37 28 21.82 At 31 December 113 24.61 97 22.31 Exercisable at 31 December 8 19.83 4 14.65 2018 2017 Exercise Expected SAYE price remaining life Number Number Year of grant of options thousands thousands 2014 20.15 6 2015 17.37 1 year 19 52 2016 19.38 2 years 26 28 45 86 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the SAYE options is 1.57 years 2017: 2.26 years.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise price Number exercise price SAYE thousands thousands At 1 January 86 18.22 126 18.93 Exercised 36 17.82 26 20.61 Forfeited 5 18.44 14 20.08 At 31 December 45 18.51 86 18.22 Exercisable at 31 December 20 17.38 7 19.93 Share options outstanding at the end of the year cash-settled 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted Performance Share Plan Phantom allocations and Remaining average average Restricted Shares Plan contractual life Number exercise price Number exercise price Year of grant of options thousands thousands 2015 89 0.05 2016 1 year 133 0.05 162 0.05 2017 2 years 109 0.05 119 0.05 2018 3 years 132 0.05 374 0.05 370 0.05 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the PSP RSP awards is 2.00 years 2017: 2.08 years.
Spectris plc 135 Spectris plc 135 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 23.
Share-based payments continued 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average fair average fair value at value at grant Performance Share Plan Phantom allocations and Number Exercise price grant date Number Exercise price date Restricted Shares Plan thousands thousands At 1 January 370 0.05 347 0.05 Granted 140 0.05 26.45 124 0.05 26.10 Addition of reinvested dividends 4 0.00 4 0.00 Exercised 61 0.05 53 0.05 Forfeited 79 0.05 52 0.05 At 31 December 374 0.05 370 0.05 Exercisable at 31 December Share-based payment expense Share options are valued using the stochastic option pricing model also known as the Monte Carlo model in respect of TSR, and the BlackScholes model for all other options, with support from an independent remuneration consultant.
The TSR performance condition was included in the calculation of fair value under the PSP.
For options granted in 2017 and 2018, the fair value of options granted, and the assumptions used in the calculation, are as follows: Equity-settled Cash-settled Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan Phantom and Restricted Performance Share Plan Linked tax-advantaged Shares Plan 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Weighted average share price at date of grant 26.81 26.24 26.85 26.05 26.50 26.25 Weighted average exercise price 0.05 0.05 26.64 26.05 0.05 0.05 Expected volatility 24.66% 25.59% 24.65% 25.55% 24.73% 25.59% Expected life years 3.07 3.00 3.04 3.00 3.00 3.00 Risk-free rate 0.86% 0.09% 0.86% 0.10% 0.84% 0.09% Expected dividends expressed as a yield 2.11% 2.03% Weighted average fair values at date of grant : TSR condition 15.30 14.847 3.73 Profit condition 26.54 25.99 3.99 3.72 26.96 26.22 EPS condition 26.09 25.72 3.94 3.78 26.96 26.22 Economic profit condition 26.46 25.29 4.00 3.03 Service condition 26.57 25.78 3.99 3.55 26.96 26.06 Weighted average fair values at 31 December : TSR condition cash-settled Profit condition cash-settled 21.50 23.56 EPS condition cash-settled 21.50 23.56 Service condition cash-settled 21.46 23.56 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the expected term.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised under the PSP in 2018 was 26.11 2017: 25.00.
The weighted average fair value of cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2018 is 21.98 2017: 24.03 for the EPS condition.
The Group recognised a total share-based payment charge of 6.2m 2017: 8.2m in the Consolidated Income Statement, of which 5.1m 2017: 5.4m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
136 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 24.
Acquisitions Concept Life Sciences On 26 January 2018, the Group acquired 100% of Concept Life Sciences Holdings Limited CLS for a gross consideration of 166.9m.
CLS is a UK-based group providing integrated drug discovery, development, analytical testing and environmental consultancy services, mainly in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical and environmental sectors.
This acquisition adds to the Groups capabilities in test services in the Materials Analysis segment.
The excess of the fair value of consideration paid over the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired is represented by the following intangible assets: customer-related relationships, technology and goodwill.
Goodwill arising is attributable to the acquired workforce, expected future customer relationships and synergies from cross-selling instruments and services, as well as the development of novel analytical methods and assays based on the combination of technical knowhow from CLS and instrumentation technology from Malvern Panalytical.
Other acquisitions The Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Revolutionary Engineering, Inc. on 3 April 2018 for a gross consideration of 8.7m.
Revolutionary Engineering, Inc. is an automotive test system and service provider based in the USA.
This acquisition complements existing test capabilities of Millbrook and is included in the Test and Measurement segment.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired is 5.4m, including 3.8m of intangible assets, which generated provisional goodwill of 3.3m.
The fair value of the net assets is provisional, reflecting the timing of the acquisition, and is expected to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The Group completed the acquisition of 100% of VI-grade Group on 30 August 2018 for a gross consideration of 28.3m.
VI-grade is a leading global provider of vehicle simulation solutions and services, primarily to automotive customers.
This acquisition adds to the Groups capabilities in test services in the Test and Measurement segment.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired is 15.5m, including 15.8m of customer-related and technology intangible assets, which generated provisional goodwill of 12.8m.
The fair values included in the table below relate to the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences and other acquisitions during the year.
The fair values in respect of Concept Life Sciences are final.
The fair values in respect of other acquisitions are provisional, reflecting the timing of the acquisitions, and are expected to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date: 2018 Concept Life Other Total Sciences acquisitions fair value m m m Intangible assets 52.4 19.6 72.0 Property, plant and equipment 13.0 2.5 15.5 Inventories 7.0 1.1 8.1 Trade and other receivables 11.3 5.5 16.8 Cash and cash equivalents 1.5 6.7 8.2 Trade and other payables 14.6 9.1 23.7 Provisions 0.3 0.5 0.8 Deferred tax liabilities 8.9 4.9 13.8 Net assets acquired 61.4 20.9 82.3 Goodwill 105.5 16.1 121.6 Gross consideration 166.9 37.0 203.9 Adjustment for cash acquired 1.5 6.7 8.2 Net consideration 165.4 30.3 195.7 There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised.
Analysis of cash outflow in Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows m Net consideration in respect of 2018 acquisitions 195.7 Deferred and contingent consideration on 2018 acquisitions to be paid in future years 6.0 Cash paid in 2018 in respect of 2018 acquisitions including deferred consideration in the year 189.7 Acquisitions prior to 2018 Cash paid in 2018 in respect of prior years acquisitions 6.7 Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 196.4 Spectris plc 137 Spectris plc 137 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 24.
Acquisitions continued In the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018, sales of 62.9m and operating profit of 1.5m have been included for all acquisitions in the year.
Group revenue and operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been 1,619.2m and 177.3m, respectively, had each of these acquisitions taken place on the first day of the financial year.
Where appropriate, a detailed exercise has been undertaken to assess the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, supported by the use of third-party experts.
The valuation of the above intangible and tangible assets requires the use of assumptions and estimates.
Intangible asset assumptions consist of future growth rates, expected inflation and attrition rates, discount rates used and useful economic lives.
The fair value of contingent consideration on the 2018 acquisitions amounts to 6.0m.
The contingent consideration payable on financial milestones on 2018 acquisitions could range from nil to 6.7m, dependent on incremental future revenues, and the total contingent consideration is sensitive to risk-adjusted discount rates.
Deferred and contingent consideration included in 2018 purchase consideration is not linked to future employment.
Due to their contractual due dates, the fair value of receivables approximates to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised.
The following tables represent the fair values relating to the 2017 acquisitions: 2017 Total fair value m Intangible assets 15.9 Property, plant and equipment 3.1 Inventories 0.1 Trade and other receivables 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 Trade and other payables 1.8 Deferred tax liabilities 0.3 Net assets acquired 19.7 Goodwill 16.8 Bargain purchase on acquisition 1.9 Total consideration in respect of 2017 acquisitions 34.6 Total consideration 34.6 Adjustment for cash acquired 0.8 Total consideration in respect of 2017 acquisitions 33.8 Analysis of cash outflow in Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Total consideration in respect of 2017 acquisitions 34.6 Adjustment for net cash acquired on 2017 acquisitions 0.8 Deferred and contingent consideration on 2017 acquisitions to be paid in future years 1.4 Cash paid in 2017 in respect of 2017 acquisitions 32.4 Acquisitions prior to 2017 Cash paid in 2017 in respect of prior years acquisitions 4.1 Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 36.5 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 25.
Disposal of businesses a Profit on disposal of businesses 2018 EMS Brel & Kjr The Group completed the disposal of 100% of its environmental monitoring business, EMS Brel & Kjr EMS B&K on 31 May 2018 into a joint venture with Macquarie Capital in exchange for cash consideration of 45.1m and a 45% interest in the joint venture.
This generated a profit on disposal of 56.3m which included 44.4m arising as a result of measuring to fair value the Groups retained 45% interest in the EMS B&K business, transaction expenses of 6.5m and a contingent deferred payment to Macquarie Capital estimated at 2.9m which is dependent upon the delivery of certain objectives.
2018 m Goodwill and other intangible assets 23.4 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 Net deferred and current tax assets 0.5 Inventory 1.7 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 Trade and other payables 4.4 Net assets disposed 28.9 Consideration received, satisfied in cash 45.1 Consideration received, satisfied in equity in the joint venture 6.0 Consideration received, satisfied in other receivables from the joint venture 38.4 Contingent deferred payment 2.9 Transaction costs 6.5 Net proceeds from disposal of business 80.1 Net assets disposed of 28.9 Currency translation differences transferred from translation reserve 5.1 Profit on disposal of business 56.3 The sale of EMS B&K did not meet the definition of a discontinued operation given in IFRS 5 'Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations' and, therefore, no disclosures in relation to discontinued operations were made.
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes 41.8m of net proceeds from the sale of EMS B&K, which consists of 45.1m of consideration received in cash less 2.5m of transaction fees paid, 0.6m of tax paid on disposal and 0.2m of cash and cash equivalents disposed.
Microscan During 2018, 2.0m was received in respect of deferred consideration for the disposal of Microscan.
Spectris plc 139 Spectris plc 139 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 25.
Disposal of businesses continued 2017 Microscan The profit on disposal of business wholly relates to the disposal of 100% of Microscan on 2 October 2017, which resulted in a profit on disposal of 100.5m.
2017 m Goodwill and other intangible assets 5.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.8 Deferred tax assets 2.0 Inventory 5.9 Trade and other receivables 7.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 Trade and other payables 4.0 Provisions 0.1 Net assets disposed 17.5 Consideration received, satisfied in cash 114.6 Cash disposed of 0.4 Transaction expenses 3.3 Net proceeds from disposal of business 110.9 Contingent consideration 2.3 Cash disposed of 0.4 Net assets disposed of 17.5 Currency translation differences transferred from translation reserve 4.4 Profit on disposal of business 100.5 The sale of Microscan did not meet the definition of a discontinued operation given in IFRS 5 'Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations' and, therefore, no disclosures in relation to discontinued operations were made.
b Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets classified as held for sale at 31 December 2018 include freehold property, which was sold in January 2019.
The assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 December 2017 were comprised of the assets and liabilities of the EMS Brel & Kjr business, which was sold on 31 May 2018.
140 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 26.
Cash generated from operations 2018 2017 Note m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit after tax 185.2 234.8 Adjustments for: Taxation charge 8 32.8 43.6 Profit on disposal of businesses 56.3 100.5 Share of post-tax results of joint venture 1.2 Finance costs 7 16.0 6.4 Financial income 7 2.5 1.9 Depreciation 12 30.3 25.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 11 49.1 47.5 Bargain purchase on acquisition 5 1.9 Acquisition-related fair value adjustments 4.8 3.0 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and software 5 1.9 0.1 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 6 5.1 5.4 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital and provisions 263.8 256.1 Increase in trade and other receivables 30.4 34.3 Increase in inventories 17.4 0.6 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 3.6 17.5 Increase decrease in provisions and retirement benefits 3.4 1.1 Cash generated from operations 215.8 237.6 Spectris plc 141 Spectris plc 141 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 27.
Financial risk management The Groups multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
Financial risk management policies are set by the Board of Directors.
These policies are implemented by a central treasury department that has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined authority and approval limits.
The central treasury department operates as a service centre to the Group and not as a profit centre.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Such instruments are only used to manage the risks arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities, or highly probable future transactions.
The quantitative analysis of financial risk is included in Note 28.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group companies transactional exposures and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into the Groups reporting currency of Sterling translational exposures.
The Group has operations around the world which record their results in a variety of different local functional currencies.
In countries where the Group does not have operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency.
The Group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different currencies but the Groups primary exposures relate to the US Dollar, Euro, Danish Krone, Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments.
The Groups translational exposures to foreign currency risks can relate both to the Consolidated Income Statement and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is not to hedge the translational exposure that arises on consolidation of the Consolidated Income Statement of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group finances overseas company investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising on translation of the Groups foreign currency subsidiaries.
The quantitative analysis of foreign currency risk is included in Note 28.
The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency risks through the use of forward exchange contracts.
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge highly probable transactions which can be forecast to occur typically up to 18 months into the future.
For the hedges of highly probable forecast sales and purchases, as the critical terms i. e. the notional amount, life and the underlying of the forward exchange contracts and their corresponding hedged items are the same, the Group performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness and it is expected that the value of the forward contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items will systematically change in opposite directions in response to movements in the underlying exchange rates.
The main potential source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group's own credit risk on the fair value of the forward contracts, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates.
No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships.
The following tables detail the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information regarding their related hedged items.
Foreign currency forward contract assets and liabilities are presented in the line 'Derivative financial instruments' either as assets or liabilities within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Hedging instruments outstanding contracts Change in fair value for Carrying amount of recognising hedge ineffectiveness the hedging instruments Cash flow hedges 2018 2017 2018 2017 Currency risk forward exchange contracts m m m m Less than 6 months 1.0 0.8 1.0 0.8 6 to 12 months 0.7 0.1 0.7 0.1 12 to 18 months 0.1 0.1 1.8 0.9 1.8 0.9 Hedging instruments hedged items Balance in cash flow hedge reserve foreign currency Change in value used for translation reserve for calculating hedge effectiveness continuing hedges 2018 2017 2018 2017 Currency risk m m m m Forecast sales 1.8 0.9 3.8 1.8 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are used to manage the Groups interest rate profile.
142 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Liquidity risk Liquidity risk represents the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group manages this risk through the use of regularly updated cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts and a liquidity headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements.
Adequate committed lines of funding are maintained from high-quality investment grade lenders.
The facilities committed to the Group as at 31 December 2018 are set out in Note 17. Credit risk Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash balances, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of appropriate allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on whether receivables are past due based on contractual terms, payment history and other available evidence of collectability.
Trade receivables are subject to credit limits and control and approval procedures in the operating companies.
Due to its large geographical base and number of customers, the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables.
The quantitative analysis of credit risk relating to receivables is included in Note 15. Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial instruments is managed centrally by transacting with existing relationship banks with strong investment grade ratings.
Accordingly, the Groups associated credit risk is limited.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, as shown in Note 28.
Capital management The Board considers equity shareholders funds, together with committed debt facilities, as capital for the purposes of funding the Groups operations.
Total managed capital at 31 December is: 2018 2017 m m Equity shareholders' funds 1,232.9 1,204.1 Committed debt facilities 814.4 593.7 2,047.3 1,797.8 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the geographic spread of shareholders and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the Company.
This is carried out through the Spectris Share Incentive Plan in the UK, as well as Performance and Restricted Share Plans.
Full details of these schemes are given in Note 23.
The main financial covenants in the Companys debt facilities are the ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and the ratio of finance charges to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and impairment.
Covenant testing is completed twice a year based on the half-year and year-end Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2018, the Company had, and is expected to continue to have, significant headroom under these financial covenant ratios.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares in the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
During the year, 3,825,802 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled by the Group as part of the share buyback programme announced on 5 March 2018 2017: nil.
There were no other changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Spectris plc 143 Spectris plc 143 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 28.
Financial instruments The following tables show the fair value measurement of financial instruments by level following the fair value hierarchy: Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: inputs for assets and liabilities derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
2018 Level 2 Level 3 Carrying fair value fair value amount Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments m m m Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and contract assets 345.1 Trade and other payables excluding contract liabilities and customer advances 18.8 266.7 Other receivable joint venture 38.9 Forward exchange contract assets 0.4 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 73.1 73.1 Floating rate borrowings including bank overdrafts 181.4 181.4 Fixed rate borrowings 195.0 188.8 Forward exchange contract liabilities 2.2 2.2 181.6 2017 Level 2 Level 3 Carrying fair value fair value amount Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments m m m Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and accrued income 318.3 Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 11.1 222.0 Forward exchange contracts 1.4 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 138.0 138.0 Floating rate borrowings including bank overdrafts 1.3 1.3 Fixed rate borrowings 193.3 187.2 Forward exchange contracts 0.5 0.5 46.7 There were no movements between the different levels of the fair value hierarchy in the year.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents including held for sale, receivables and payables approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying amount because interest rates are at floating rates where payments are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using appropriate yield curves, to the net present values.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data.
144 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements The fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2018 is a net liability of 1.8m 2017: net asset of 0.9m, of which 1.6m has been charged to the hedging reserve 2017: 0.7m credited and 0.2m charged to the Consolidated Income Statement 2017: 0.2m credited.
These contracts mature over periods typically not exceeding 18 months.
A summary of the movements in the hedging reserve during the year is presented below.
All of the cash flow hedges in 2018 and 2017 were deemed to be effective.
2018 2017 Analysis of movements in hedging reserve net of tax m m At 1 January 2.0 5.3 Amounts removed from the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and included in the Consolidated Income Statement during the year 1.4 1.1 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity during the year 3.3 2.2 At 31 December 3.9 2.0 The amount included in the Consolidated Income Statement is split between revenue and administrative expenses depending on the nature of the hedged item.
2018 2017 Reconciliation of level 3 fair value for deferred and contingent consideration payable on acquisitions and disposals m m At 1 January 11.1 16.2 Deferred and contingent consideration arising from acquisitions payable in future years 6.0 1.4 Deferred and contingent consideration payable arising from disposals 5.0 Deferred and contingent consideration paid in the current year relating to previous years' acquisitions 8.7 4.1 Costs charged to the Consolidated Income Statement: Subsequent adjustments 4.8 3.0 Unwinding of discount factor on deferred and contingent consideration 0.6 0.7 Foreign exchange difference 0.1 At 31 December 18.8 11.1 The fair value of deferred and contingent consideration is determined by considering the performance expectations of the acquired entity or the likelihood of non-financial integration milestones whilst applying the entity-specific discount rates.
The unobservable inputs are the projected forecast measures that are assessed on an annual basis.
Changes in the fair value of deferred and contingent consideration relating to updated projected forecast performance measures are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period that the change occurs.
Deferred and contingent consideration relates to financial 2018: 7.1m, 2017: 4.6m and non-financial 2018: 11.7m, 2017: 6.5m milestones on current and prior year acquisitions and disposals, as disclosed in Note 24 and Note 25.
The financial milestones are mainly sensitive to risk-adjusted discount rates and annual future revenue targets.
The following table shows the total outstanding contractual forward exchange contracts hedging designated transactional exposures split by currencies which have been sold back into the functional currency of the underlying business.
These contracts typically mature in the next 18 months and, therefore, the cash flows and resulting effect on the Consolidated Income Statement are expected to occur within this time period.
Forward exchange contracts at 31 December 2018 2017 Foreign currency sale amount m 154.6 154.6 Percentage of total: US Dollar 31% 44% Euro 26% 23% Japanese Yen 21% 19% Other 22% 14% A maturity profile of the gross cash flows related to financial liabilities is: 2018 2017 Bank loans Bank loans and Unsecured and Unsecured overdrafts loans Total overdrafts loans Total Maturity of financial liabilities m m m m m m Due within one year 5.8 23.1 28.9 1.3 3.3 4.6 Due between one and two years 90.2 90.2 3.3 3.3 Due between two and five years 267.5 267.5 193.0 193.0 5.8 380.8 386.6 1.3 199.6 200.9 Spectris plc 145 Spectris plc 145 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS continued 28.
Financial instruments continued Trade and other payables Note 18 are substantially due within one year.
It is not expected that the cash flows described above could occur significantly earlier or at substantially different amounts.
Financial assets Financial liabilities Non- 2018 Fixed Floating interest Fixed Floating Net financial Interest rate exposure of financial rate rate bearing Total rate rate Total assets assets and liabilities by currency m m m m m m m liabilities Sterling 0.1 1.0 2.9 4.0 95.0 95.0 91.0 Euro 0.5 1.8 22.8 25.1 188.8 80.6 269.4 244.3 US Dollar 1.6 1.6 10.6 13.8 0.8 0.8 13.0 Other 1.2 4.6 24.4 30.2 5.0 5.0 25.2 3.4 9.0 60.7 73.1 188.8 181.4 370.2 297.1 Financial assets Financial liabilities Non- 2017 Fixed Floating interest Fixed Floating Net financial Interest rate exposure of financial rate rate bearing Total rate rate Total assets assets and liabilities by currency m m m m m m m liabilities Sterling 23.8 5.1 28.9 28.9 Euro 0.3 2.5 10.7 13.5 187.2 187.2 173.7 US Dollar 46.6 20.4 7.9 74.9 0.4 0.4 74.5 Other 6.2 14.5 20.7 0.9 0.9 19.8 70.7 29.1 38.2 138.0 187.2 1.3 188.5 50.5 Sensitivity analysis The tables below show the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The US Dollar, Euro, Danish Krone and Swiss Franc represent the main foreign exchange translational exposures for the Group.
The Group's borrowings are primarily in US Dollars and Euros.
2018 2017 Decrease Decrease in Decrease increase Decrease in profit increase in in profit equity before tax equity before tax Impact on foreign exchange translational exposures against Sterling m m m m 10% weakening in the US Dollar 98.1 6.0 96.8 5.6 10% weakening in the Euro Danish Krone 70.8 6.7 55.0 5.8 10% weakening in the Swiss Franc 3.5 1.5 3.5 1.6 Impact of interest rate movements 1pp increase in interest rates 1.7 1.7 0.1 0.1 29.
Contingent liabilities In the normal course of business, Group companies have provided bonds and guarantees through local banking arrangements amounting to 20.3m 2017: 20.0m.
Contingent liabilities in respect of taxation are disclosed in Note 8.
Operating leases 2018 2017 Total commitments under non-cancellable Property Other Total Property Other Total operating leases expiring: m m m m m m Within one year 14.8 5.5 20.3 12.4 4.8 17.2 More than one year but less than five years 34.0 6.2 40.2 26.3 5.5 31.8 Greater than five years 18.4 0.1 18.5 18.5 18.5 67.2 11.8 79.0 57.2 10.3 67.5 Group companies are party to a number of operating leases for plant and machinery, motor vehicles and property rentals.
The arrangements do not impose any significant restrictions on the Group.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2018, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and software amounting to 31.0m 2017: 18.2m which have not been accrued.
146 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 32.
Related party transactions The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries a list of all related undertakings is shown in Note 15 of the Company Financial Statements on pages 158 to 162, with its joint venture see Note 13 and with its Executive Directors and members of the Executive Management Committee.
Transactions with key management personnel The remuneration of key management personnel during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 m m Short-term benefits 5.2 6.1 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 1.6 1.8 7.4 8.5 In accordance with IAS 24 'Related Party Disclosures', key management personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Key management personnel comprise the Directors and the other members of the Executive Management Committee.
Further details of the Executive Directors remuneration are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 78.
Transactions with joint venture 2018 2017 m m Sales 1.2 Income on receivable see Note 7 2.0 Loan receivable 0.9 Other receivable 38.9 Trade receivables 1.7 Trade payables 2.7 There were no other related party transactions in either 2018 or 2017.
Subsidiary undertakings The table below lists the Group's principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2018.
They operate mainly in the countries of incorporation.
All of the subsidiaries are involved in the manufacture and sale of highly-specialised measuring instruments and controls, together with the provision of services.
Spectris plc holds 100% of the ordinary share capital of all the subsidiaries either directly or indirectly through intermediate holding companies.
Name Country of incorporation Engineering Seismology Group Canada Inc. Canada Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Measurement A S Denmark Concept Life Sciences Analytical & Development Services Limited England & Wales Concept Life Sciences Integrated Discovery & Development Services Limited England & Wales Malvern Panalytical Limited England & Wales Millbrook Proving Ground Limited England & Wales Servomex Group Limited England & Wales Brel & Kjr Vibro GmbH Germany Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH Germany VI-grade GmbH Germany BTG Eclpens S. A. Switzerland NDC Technologies Inc. USA Omega Engineering Inc. USA Particle Measuring Systems Inc. USA Red Lion Controls Inc. USA A full list of subsidiaries is given in Note 15 of the Company Financial Statements on pages 158 to 162.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no post balance sheet events.
Spectris plc 147 Spectris plc 147 SPECTRIS PLC STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Note m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 4 3.5 2.2 Property, plant and equipment 5 2.4 2.5 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 6 1,070.2 1,068.6 Deferred tax assets 3.9 3.7 1,080.0 1,077.0 Current assets Current tax assets 3.6 4.8 Other receivables due after more than one year: 417.9m 2017: 334.1m 7 785.1 602.9 Derivative financial instruments 2.8 3.1 Cash and cash equivalents 20.7 107.5 812.2 718.3 Total assets 1,892.2 1,795.3 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Borrowings 8 30.3 15.5 Derivative financial instruments 2.8 3.0 Other payables 9 521.9 501.8 Provisions 10 1.2 556.2 520.3 Net current assets 256.0 198.0 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 8 346.5 187.2 Other payables 9 190.6 146.6 Retirement benefit obligations 12 12.5 13.4 549.6 347.2 Total liabilities 1,105.8 867.5 Net assets 786.4 927.8 EQUITY Share capital 11 6.0 6.2 Share premium 231.4 231.4 Retained earnings 511.3 652.7 Merger reserve 11 3.1 3.1 Capital redemption reserve 11 0.5 0.3 Special reserve 11 34.1 34.1 Total equity 786.4 927.8 The Company's profit for the year was 18.5m 2017: 23.1m.
The Financial Statements on pages 148 to 162 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2019 and were signed on its behalf by: Clive Watson Group Finance Director Company Registration No.
2025003 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements SPECTRIS PLC STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2018 Capital Share Share Retained Merger redemption Special Total capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve equity Note m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 6.2 231.4 652.7 3.1 0.3 34.1 927.8 Profit for the year 18.5 18.5 Other comprehensive income: Re-measurement of net defined benefit obligations, net of tax 3.0 3.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 21.5 21.5 Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity: Own shares acquired for share buyback programme 0.2 100.5 0.2 100.5 Equity dividends paid 14 68.2 68.2 Capital contribution relating to sharebased payments 1.8 1.8 Share-based payments, net of tax 3.1 3.1 Utilisation of treasury shares 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2018 6.0 231.4 511.3 3.1 0.5 34.1 786.4 Capital Share Share Retained Merger redemption Special Total capital premium earnings reserve reserve reserve equity Note m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 6.2 231.4 684.5 3.1 0.3 34.1 959.6 Profit for the year 23.1 23.1 Other comprehensive income: Re-measurement of net defined benefit obligations, net of tax 2.3 2.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 25.4 25.4 Transactions with owners recorded directly in equity: Equity dividends paid 14 63.2 63.2 Capital contribution relating to sharebased payments 3.3 3.3 Share-based payments, net of tax 2.2 2.2 Utilisation of treasury shares 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2017 6.2 231.4 652.7 3.1 0.3 34.1 927.8 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Spectris plc 149
