OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The performance of the Group is assessed using a variety of alternative performance measures which are presented to provide users with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management.
The alternative performance measures presented are not defined under IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with similarly identified measures used by other companies.
In managements view, the alternative performance measures reflect the underlying performance of the Group and provide a more meaningful comparison of how the Group is managed and measured on a day-to day basis.
Such alternative performance measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
The alternative performance measures and key performance indicators are aligned to the Groups strategy and collectively are used to measure the performance of the Group and form the basis of the metrics for director and management remuneration.
The Groups key performance indicators are presented on pages 22 and 23.
ORDER INTAKE Order intake represents requests from customers to purchase goods and or services from Spirent that will ultimately result in recognised revenue.
Order intake is a measure of operating performance used by management to assess whether future activity levels are increasing or slowing and therefore how effective we have been in the execution of our strategy.
Order intake is a key performance indicator used to measure Group, operating segment and regional performance for internal reporting purposes.
Order intake is a non-GAAP measure and as such should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP measures of operating performance.
BOOK TO BILL Book to bill is the ratio of orders booked to revenue billed in the period and is a measure of the visibility of future revenues at current levels of activity.
Book to bill is a key performance indicator used to measure Group and operating segment performance for internal reporting purposes.
Book to bill is a non-GAAP measure and as such should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP measures of operating performance.
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Adjusted operating profit is reported operating profit excluding exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and share-based payment.
Management uses adjusted operating profit, in conjunction with other GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, to evaluate the overall operating performance of the Group as well as each of the operating segments and believe that this measure is relevant to understanding the Groups financial performance, as specific items adjusting items are identified and excluded by virtue of their size, nature or incidence as they do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The exclusion of adjusting items from adjusted operating profit is consistent from year to year.
Adjusted operating profit is also used in setting director and management remuneration targets and in discussions with the investment analyst community.
182 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN Adjusted operating margin is adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
It is a measure of the Groups overall profitability and how successful we are in executing on our overall strategy, and demonstrates our ability to improve margin through efficient operations whilst being mindful of the need to invest for the future.
ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Adjusted basic earnings per share EPS is adjusted earnings attributable to owners of the parent Company divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Adjusted earnings is reported profit before tax excluding exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment, gain on divestment, tax on adjusting items, significant one-off tax impacts, for example revaluation of deferred tax assets due to US tax reform in 2017 and prior year tax.
Adjusted basic EPS is a measure of how successful we are in executing on our strategy and ultimately delivering increased value for shareholders.
Adjusted basic EPS is also used in setting director and management remuneration targets and in discussions with the investment analyst community.
The Group sets out the calculation of adjusted EPS in note 11 of Notes to the full year consolidated financial statements.
FREE CASH FLOW Free cash flow is cash flow generated from operations, less tax and net capital expenditure, after interest paid and or received.
Free cash flow is a measure of the quality of the Groups earnings and reflects the ability to convert profits into cash and ultimately to generate funds for future investment.
It gives us financial strength and flexibility and the ability to pay sustainable dividends to our shareholders.
Free cash flow is an important indicator of overall operating performance as it reflects the cash generated from operations after capital expenditure, financing and tax which are significant ongoing cash flows associated with investing in the business and financing the operations.
Free cash flow excludes corporate level cash flows that are independent of ongoing trading operations such as dividends, acquisitions and disposals and share repurchases and therefore is not a measure of the funds that are available for distribution to shareholders.
A reconciliation of cash generated from operations, the closest equivalent GAAP measure, to free cash flow is provided within the Financial review on page 48.
FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION Free cash flow conversion is the ratio of free cash flow to adjusted earnings, presented as a percentage.
Free cash flow conversion is a measure used in conjunction with free cash flow to assess the Groups ability to convert profits into cash and ultimately to generate funds for future investment.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 183
