NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION The Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 7 March 2019.
Spirent Communications plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales registration number 00470893.
The registered address of the Company is Northwood Park, Gatwick Road, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 9XN, United Kingdom.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As required by the European Unions EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Company has elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
These are presented on pages 159 to 160 and the accounting policies in respect of the Company are set out on pages 161 to 166.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis apart from certain financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
GOING CONCERN BASIS OF ACCOUNTING At 31 December 2018 the Group had cash balances of $121.6 million and no debt.
The directors have reviewed the detailed financial projections for a period of 12 months from the date of this report and the business plans for the 2020 and 2021 financial years.
They have also considered the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces and its current financial position and are satisfied that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence forthe foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the going concern basis of accounting continues to be used in the preparation of the financial statements.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS There have been no applicable new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations effective from 1 January 2018 that have been applied by the Group which have resulted in a significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position, other than in relation to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from 1 January 2018 and replaces the existing standard, IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 are the first financial statements presented under IFRS 9.
There is no material impact to the financial statements on transition to IFRS 9, other than the classification effects described below, which have not impacted the measurement or carrying amount of financial instruments.
Original measurement category under IAS 39 New measurement category under IFRS 9 Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables excluding corporate owned life insurance Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortised cost Trade and other receivables corporate owned life insurance Available-for-sale through profit or loss Financial assets at FVTPL Current other financial assets and liabilities forward foreign currency exchange contracts Derivatives designated at FVTPL Derivatives designated at FVTPL Trade payables, other payables and accruals Financial liabilities at amortised cost Financial liabilities at amortised cost Contractual provisions Financial liabilities at amortised cost Financial liabilities at amortised cost 116 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective from 1 January 2018 and replaces all existing revenue requirements in IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 are the first financial statements presented under IFRS 15.
IFRS 15 applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers unless the contracts are in scope of other standards.
The standard establishes a new five-step model that applies to revenue from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, the core principle is that revenue is recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard requires entities to exercise considerable judgement taking into account all the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to its contracts with customers.
The standard also specifies how to account for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract.
The Group has applied IFRS 15 fully retrospectively in accordance with paragraph C3 a of the standard, restating the prior period comparatives and electing to use the following practical expedients: in respect of completed contracts, the Group will not restate contracts that i begin and end within the same annual reporting period: or ii are completed contracts at the beginning of the earliest period presented para.
C5 a : and for all reporting periods presented before the date of initial application, the Group will not disclose the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations or an explanation of when the Group expects to recognise that amount as revenue para C5 d. Details of the Groups accounting policy in respect of revenue is presented on page 121.
An explanation of the impact on the Groups prior period financial statements and related matters consequent upon the adoption of IFRS 15 are set out in note 37.
PRESENTATION The Groups deferred compensation plan balance has been reclassified from trade and other payables non-current to defined benefit pension plan deficit to appropriately aggregate pension-related liabilities.
The presentation of the comparative amounts in the Groups balance sheet has also been amended to reflect this change.
This resulted in a reclassification of $3.7 million in 2017 and $2.3 million in 2016.
The related cash flow movement in 2017 was also reclassified using the appropriate corresponding line item within the cash flow from operating activities category in the Groups cash flow statement.
This reclassification had no impact on the Groups net assets, income statement or net cash flow from operating activities reported in 2018 or 2017.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is provided on pages 178 and 179.
Subsidiary undertakings are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The separable net assets, including intangible assets of newly acquired subsidiaries, are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements based on their fair values at the effective date of control.
The Group includes a subsidiary that is operated under the management of a Proxy Board.
Details of the Proxy Board arrangements and the powers of the Proxy holders and Spirents management are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report on page 63.
The directors consider that the Group meets the requirements of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of control over the entity in question as Spirent maintains the following: rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of key management and the ability to appoint proxy holders and change directors every 5 years: rights to direct the investee to enter into, or veto any changes to, transactions: and decision-making rights and rights to direct activities including the ability to change products, territories and customers and the ability to terminate product selling with notice.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share ofthe total comprehensive income from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Dividends received from associates reduce the carrying value of the associate.
Investments in associates are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL A business combination is a transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
At acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are measured at their fair values.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Non-controlling interests are measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Contingent consideration resulting from business combinations is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination.
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The determination of fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions take into consideration the probability of meeting each performance target and the discount rate.
Acquisition costs are expensed and included in administration costs.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries, representing the excess of cost over the net fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is subject to an annual review for impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cashgenerating units monitored by management.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Separately identifiable intangible assets such as patent fees, licence fees, trademarks and customer lists and relationships are capitalised on the balance sheet only when the value can be measured reliably, or the intangible asset is purchased as part of the acquisition of a business.
Suchintangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line basis.
The carrying value of intangible assetsisreviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Acquired intangible assets, being customer lists, current technology, database, brand names and a non-compete covenant, are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and the charge is included within other items in the income statement.
Licences are amortised over their useful lives or term, and are expensed within cost of sales or selling costs.
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets and the amortisation expiry dates are as follows: Useful life Expiry date Customer lists 2 to 7 years 2020 Current technology 5 to 7 years 2021 Brand names 5 years 2020 Licences 3 to 5 years 2020 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Research expenditure is charged to product development in the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets arising on the Groups various product development projects are recognised only if the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
Product development costs are expensed as incurred until the technological feasibility of the product under development has beenestablished.
Technological feasibility in Spirents circumstances occurs when a working model is completed.
For software development, technological feasibility is not established until the process of developing the software is complete.
After technological feasibility is established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life.
At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, no amounts have met the recognition criteria.
118 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value, of all other assets over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis at rates which take into account commercial conditions at their location.
Usual asset lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment Building installations 20 years or lease period if lower Fittings and equipment 3 to 8 years Motor vehicles 3 to 5 years Business systems software 4 years The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are assessed at least annually.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the expected cash flows value in use of the relevant cash-generating unit or asset and the fair value less cost of disposal.
Inassessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation oramortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Such a reversal is recognised in the income statement.
This does not apply for goodwill, for which an impairment loss must not be reversed in any circumstances.
LEASES A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment or series of payments the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time.
Operating leases are leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset and are not finance leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, being the full manufacturing cost on a first-in, first-out basis, including all attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recorded when the Group has a present, legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that the Group will be required to settle by an outflow of resources and for which a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision shall be the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events outside the Groups control, or present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that a settlement will be required or the value of such a payment cannot be reliably measured.
The Group does not recognise contingent liabilities but discloses them.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FOREIGN CURRENCIES The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are measured in terms of historical costs using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the Groups operations are principally US dollar, sterling or Euro.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into the Groups presentation currency at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of foreign operations are translated into US dollars using average rates for the period.
The exchange differences arising on retranslation are classified as a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as part of the profit or loss on disposal should an operation be disposed of.
The Group has elected to applythe exemption in IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards which allows the cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be deemed to be zero at the date of transition to IFRS, being 1 January 2003.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at original invoiced amount less an appropriate allowance for expected credit losses.
At each reporting date, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of trade receivables over a period of 12 months before 31 December 2017 and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
A default on a trade receivable occurs when the debtor fails to make contractual payments when they fall due.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits which usually have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above.
There are no bank overdrafts.
Also recognised within cash and cash equivalents are shares in money market funds which, due to their first-class credit rating and investment in extremely short term money market securities, undergo only minor fluctuations and can be readily converted within one day into known amounts of cash.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at the original invoiced amount.
Equity instruments Equity instruments are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Spirent Communications plc Ordinary Shares held by the Group are classified in equity as treasury shares and are recognised at cost and included as a deduction from retained earnings.
Consideration received for the sale of such treasury shares is also recognised in equity.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to manage exposures arising on receipts and payments in foreign currencies relating to firm commitments.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the contract is entered into, andare subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reported balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The Group has not adopted the hedge accounting rules.
Consequently all gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
120 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates two funded defined benefit pension plans which are in the United Kingdom, all other pension plans are defined contribution in nature.
For the defined contribution plans, the amount charged to the income statement is the employers contributions paid or payable during the year.
For defined benefit pension plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method, andupdates are performed at each balance sheet date.
Re-measurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling if relevant and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reflected immediately in the balance sheet liability or asset with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurement recognised in other comprehensive income will not be reclassified to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss inthe period of plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit pension liability or asset, taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit pension liability during the period asa result of contribution and benefit payments.
Defined benefit pension costs are categorised as: service cost including current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on curtailments or settlements : net interest expense or income: and re-measurement.
The Group presents the first two components of defined benefit pension costs in profit or loss.
The Group also operates a deferred compensation plan in the United States.
The plan has elements of a defined benefit pension retirement obligation and therefore is required to be valued in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For the deferred compensation plan, the recognised investment gains or losses in the period are charged or credited to the income statement whereas the re-measurement, comprising actuarial gains or losses, is reflected immediately in the balance sheet liability with a charge or credit in other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs.
REVENUE Revenue represents the transfer of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those products or services.
Revenue from product sales of hardware and perpetual software licences is recognised at the point in time when the customer has obtained control of the products sold.
This is usually when the products have been delivered in accordance with the contractual terms.
In most instances it is not until acceptance has occurred that control of the asset is transferred to the customer.
Terms of acceptance are dependent upon the specific contractual arrangement agreed with the customer.
If it can be objectively determined that control has been transferred to the customer in accordance with the agreed contract specifications, customer acceptance is a formality that would not affect the determination of when the customer has obtained control of the products.
However, if it cannot be objectively determined that the products delivered are in accordance with the agreed-upon contract specifications, revenue would not be recognised until customer acceptance has been granted.
For the sale of services, revenue is generally recognised over time with reference to when or as the performance obligations are satisfied by transferring the service to the customer.
Revenue from support and maintenance service contracts and software subscription sales is recognised over the period of performance on a straight-line basis.
Revenue from professional services is generally recognised as work progresses in accordance with agreed upon contractual terms, either based on a measure of progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation or at periodic intervals.
Progress is measured with reference to the actual cost of services provided as a proportion of the total cost of services expected to be provided under the contract.
Where the professional service has a predetermined or fixed output deliverable, revenue is recognised at a point in time once the performance obligation has been satisfied and the customer has received the agreed deliverable.
Revenue from multi-component and bundled orders that includes both products and services is accounted for as two or more separate performance obligations only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being distinct and are separately identifiable from other promises in the context of the contract with the customer.
COST OF SALES The Groups cost of sales related to the sale of its products includes materials, payments to third party contract manufacturers, royalties and salaries and other expenses related to its manufacturing and supply operations personnel.
Cost of sales related to the provision of services includes salaries and other expenses associated with technical support services and the cost of extended maintenance services.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED COSTS TO OBTAIN A CONTRACT The incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are capitalised as an asset if the Group expects to recover them.
The Group incurs costs such as sales commissions when it enters into a new contract.
Such costs are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract where the related revenue is recognised over time, usually in relation to support and subscription agreements.
These assets are amortised on a systematic basis consistent with how the related revenue is recognised.
The amortisation is recognised in selling costs within the income statement.
The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 94 of IFRS 15 and recognises incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an expense when incurred if the amortisation period of the asset that the Group would otherwise have recognised is one year or less.
Management is required to determine the recoverability of assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract.
At each reporting date, the Group determines whether or not the assets are impaired by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the remaining amount of consideration that the Group expects to receive less the costs that relate to providing services under the relevant contract.
No assets were impaired as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 no assets.
DEFERRED INCOME Deferred income is only recognised on non-cancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from the customer for products and services that the Group has not yet completed providing or that it will provide in the near future.
In the instances where the customer has been invoiced and revenue from hardware or perpetual software licences is unable to be recognised, revenue would not be recognised until control has passed, resulting in deferred income.
Support services and software subscription agreements are generally billed at commencement of the support or subscription contract, while revenue is recognised over the period of the support or subscription agreement, resulting in deferred income.
The Group occasionally receives advance payments from customers on account, before products or services are delivered and revenue is recognised, resulting in liabilities.
These liabilities are reported on the consolidated balance sheet within trade and other payables on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
GOVERNMENT GRANTS A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially within trade and other payables when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attached to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as other operating income on a systematic basis in the same periods in which expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the acquisition of an asset are presented by deducting them from the acquisition cost of the related asset in accordance with IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS When an employee has rendered services to the Group during an accounting period, short-term benefits expected to be paid in exchange for those services are recognised in the same accounting period.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans and accounts for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of these awards is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period together with acorresponding change in equity.
The fair value is measured using the Hull-White trinomial model by reference to the share price, andtaking into account the terms and conditions of the award, excluding non-market vesting conditions, at the date the awards weregranted.
The charge is reassessed at each balance sheet date to reflect the expected and actual levels of vesting, due to achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon satisfying a market condition or nonvesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition has been satisfied.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of certain share incentives to employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
122 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED TAX Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items in other comprehensive income or equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable for previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill taxable temporary differences only or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
DIVIDENDS PAID The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in which it is paid, and the final dividend and the special dividend are included in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
ADJUSTING ITEMS Adjusting items are disclosed separately in the income statement where it is necessary to do so due to their nature or amount and toprovide further understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Adjusting items comprise exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment, gain on divestment, the taxeffect of these items, prior year tax and revaluation of deferred tax assets due to US tax reform in 2017.
Certain items are classified as exceptional items due to their nature, amount or infrequency.
Such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial statements.
These items are not part of the Groups normal ongoing operations.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect items reported.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of current facts, circumstances and future events.
Actualresults may differ, possibly significantly, from those estimates.
The areas requiring a high degree of judgement or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are discussed below.
Estimates Business combinations and goodwill For the purpose of impairment tests, the goodwill arising from each business combination is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the combination and which represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors goodwill.
There have been no changes to the CGUs in the year.
The Group tests annually by CGU whether goodwill has suffered impairment and more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amounts of CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations which require estimates and assumptions to be made in relation to managements expectations of growth in adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation: long-term growth rates: and appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence reported assets and profits and losses.
Further details, including sensitivity analysis, is included in note 13.
Defined benefit pension plans The pension cost and the defined benefit pension obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are based on a number ofselected assumptions: these include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future periods.
The effect of changing these assumptions is described in note 9.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED At 31 December 2018, the Group has estimated an allowance of $4.0 million 3.1 million in respect of GMP equalisation, a past service cost charged to exceptional items in the income statement in 2018.
The data used in the calculation is high-level and appropriate for an approximate calculation.
Detailed data which will be required for member-by-member recalculation of benefits is not generally available, and we believe would not significantly reduce the overall uncertainty in the calculation.
We have therefore not used more detailed data on the grounds that it would be disproportionate for the purposes of this calculation.
The cost of GMP equalisation remains highly uncertain due to legal uncertainty, political uncertainty, historical data which is unavailable at this stage, and future trustee decisions.
The ultimate cost of equalising GMPs will only be known once the trustees have completed an exercise to equalise benefits, and it could be significantly different to this estimate.
The process followed and assumptions used are disclosed in note 9.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient and suitable taxable profits in the relevant legal entity or tax group against which to utilise the assets in the future.
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management.
A change to these forecasts and estimates could result in a different recognition outcome.
Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits, which are estimated using the latest available profit forecasts.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are disclosed in note 25.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are estimates and the actual cost and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
The Group exercises judgement in recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities.
Judgement is necessary to assess the likelihood that aliability will arise and to quantify the possible amount of any financial settlement.
The inherent uncertainty of such matters means thatactual amounts of transactions may differ materially from estimates provided.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the actual amount is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Provisions and contingent liabilities are disclosed in notes 27 and 16, respectively.
Judgements Revenue recognition To determine the appropriate revenue recognition for contracts containing multiple elements or complex solutions that include both products and services, we evaluate whether the contract should be accounted for as a single or multiple performance obligation.
This evaluation requires significant judgement.
For revenue recognition purposes contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate performance obligations only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being distinct and are separately identifiable from other promises in the context of the contract with the customer.
Management exercises a degree of judgement in setting the criteria used for determining when revenue which involves several elements should be recognised and the stand-alone selling prices of each element.
The Group generally determines the stand-alone selling prices of individual elements based on prices which are not observable and are therefore based on stand-alone internal list prices which are then subject to discount.
For professional services revenue recognised over time, the selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgement and is based on the nature of the services to be provided.
Contracts are sometimes modified to account for changes in customer requirements.
Contract modifications are considered to exist when the modification either creates new, or changes the existing, enforceable rights and obligations.
Most of the Groups contract modifications are for products and services that are distinct from existing performance obligations and are made prior to the transfer of the products or services to the customer.
Accordingly, these are included in the products and services to be transferred and are included in the accounting of the contract on a prospective basis or as a separate performance obligation as appropriate.
In instances where the receipt of the consideration does not match the timing of the transfer of products or services because the customer has paid in advance, the Group evaluates whether the difference between the amount of promised consideration and the cash selling price of the promised products or services is significant.
The Group generally determines any difference arising is not significant and therefore a financing component does not exist.
124 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED APPLICABLE NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT APPLIED The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for the Group after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Effective for annual periods Standards IAS IFRS beginning on or after IAS 1 Definition of Material Amendments to IAS 1 1 January 2020 IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 1 January 2019 Amendments to IAS 19 IFRS 3 Definition of a Business Amendments to IFRS 3 1 January 2020 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle 1 January 2019 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application other than in relation to IFRS 16 which is discussed below.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 to replace IAS 17 Leases and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 has been adopted by the European Union.
The Group will first adopt IFRS 16 in the financial year ending 31 December 2019.
The Group has completed its impact assessment and determined that the application of the new standard will have a material impact on both gross assets and gross liabilities, adding circa $29 million of right-of-use assets and circa $32 million of lease liabilities.
There will be a decrease in retained earnings of circa $3 million.
There will also be an impact to the income statement, resulting in an increase to adjusted operating profit through the operating lease expense being removed and replaced with a smaller depreciation charge.
This impact is deemed to be immaterial.
There will be an interest expense under the new accounting, that would not have occurred under IAS 17, which will substantially offset the increase in adjusted operating profit and result in an immaterial difference to profit before tax.
There will not be an impact to total cash flows, however there will be an increase in cash flows from operating activities of circa $7 million, and a corresponding decrease in cash flows from financing activities.
The impact on the parent Company financial statements is deemed immaterial as the majority of leases are situated outside of the UK.
The most significant judgement area in the application of the standard is the determination of a suitable discount rate.
The Group has set the discount rate based upon the local base rate with an additional premium to reflect various factors such as credit risk.
This approach enables an appropriate rate to be set for each lease depending on geographic location and lease classification.
At the point of transition the Group has elected to apply the standard using the modified retrospective approach, in accordance with paragraph C7 of the standard, meaning comparatives do not get restated.
Under this option, the Group has decided to calculate the asset value as if the standard had always been applied para.
The Group has also elected to use the following practical expedients: use of its onerous lease assessment calculated in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as an alternative to performing an impairment review of right-of-use assets on initial application para.
C10 b : leases with less than 12 months remaining at date of initial application can be accounted for as short-term leases and continue to be expensed as incurred para.
C10 c : initial direct costs can be excluded from the measurement of the right-of-use assets at the date of initial application para.
C10 d : and hindsight can be used in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease para.
C10 e. The Group will also make use of the exemptions in respect of short-term leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value in accordance with paragraph 6 of IFRS 16.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
OPERATING SEGMENTS The Groups organisational structure is based on differences in the products and services offered by each segment and information regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Executive Officer, its chief operating decision maker, is presented on this basis.
The Groups operating segments follow this structure.
The Groups reportable operating segments are Networks & Security, Lifecycle Service Assurance and Connected Devices.
The Groupevaluates adjusted operating profit before exceptional items, acquired intangible asset amortisation and share-based payment.
Finance income, finance costs and gain on divestment are not allocated to the reportable segments.
Corporate is not an operating segment and costs are separately reported and not allocated to the reportable segments.
Information on segment assets and segment liabilities is not regularly provided to the Groups Chief Executive Officer and is therefore not disclosed below.
There is no aggregation of operating segments.
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of products and services and primary geographical markets as this best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of the Groups revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
2018 $ million Lifecycle Networks & Service Connected Notes Security Assurance Devices Corporate Total Revenue Nature of products and services Sale of hardware and software 239.8 66.9 40.0 346.7 Maintenance and support services 45.3 45.9 39.0 130.2 285.1 112.8 79.0 476.9 Primary geographical markets Americas 133.7 93.4 38.3 265.4 Asia Pacific 112.6 9.8 36.7 159.1 Europe, Middle East and Africa 38.8 9.6 4.0 52.4 285.1 112.8 79.0 476.9 Inter-segment revenue is eliminated.
Profit before tax Total reportable segment profit before exceptional items 56.4 17.4 10.5 7.2 77.1 Exceptional items 5 13.1 13.1 Total reportable segment profit 56.4 17.4 10.5 20.3 64.0 Unallocated amounts Acquired intangible asset amortisation 3.7 Share-based payment 33 2.8 Operating profit 57.5 Finance income 1.4 Finance costs 0.1 Gain on divestment 35 2.4 Profit before tax 61.2 Other information Product development 53.0 29.6 14.3 96.9 Intangible asset amortisation other 0.6 0.6 Depreciation 14 9.7 3.1 3.6 0.1 16.5 126 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 3.
OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED 2017 $ million Lifecycle Networks & Service Connected Notes Security Assurance Devices Corporate Total Revenue Nature of products and services Sale of hardware and software 214.2 68.6 37.7 320.5 Maintenance and support services 46.8 40.6 45.7 133.1 Royalty income 1.2 1.2 261.0 109.2 84.6 454.8 Primary geographical markets Americas 116.9 90.0 41.7 248.6 Asia Pacific 111.4 12.2 36.6 160.2 Europe, Middle East and Africa 32.7 7.0 6.3 46.0 261.0 109.2 84.6 454.8 Inter-segment revenue is eliminated.
Profit before tax Total reportable segment profit before exceptional items 43.9 17.9 5.2 8.1 58.9 Exceptional items 5 3.9 0.1 1.4 1.3 6.7 Total reportable segment profit 40.0 17.8 3.8 9.4 52.2 Unallocated amounts Acquired intangible asset amortisation 6.3 Share-based payment 33 2.2 Operating profit 43.7 Finance income 0.6 Finance costs 0.3 Gain on divestment 35 2.6 Profit before tax 46.6 Other information Product development 53.6 30.9 18.5 103.0 Intangible asset amortisation other 0.8 0.8 Depreciation 14 9.6 3.5 4.8 0.1 18.0 All of the Groups revenue arose from contracts with customers.
Generally, revenue from the sale of hardware and software is recognised at a point in time and revenue from maintenance and support services is recognised over time.
Europe, Middle East and Africa includes United Kingdom revenue of $6.8 million 2017 $8.1 million.
Americas includes United States revenue of $254.1 million 2017 $237.8 million.
Asia Pacific includes China revenue of $92.2 million 2017 $88.3 million.
Revenues are attributed to regions and countries based on customer location.
No one customer accounted for 10 per cent or more of total Group revenue in either 2018 or 2017.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED 2018 2017 $ million $ million 1 Non-current assets Americas 184.6 195.4 Asia Pacific 4.4 4.9 Europe, Middle East and Africa 5.1 5.6 194.1 205.9 Note 1.
Non-current assets excludes trade and other receivables, assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract, defined benefit pension plan surplus and deferred tax asset.
Europe, Middle East and Africa includes United Kingdom non-current assets of $2.0 million 2017 $2.9 million.
Americas includes United States non-current assets of $171.1 million 2017 $182.5 million.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX The following items have been charged in arriving at profit before tax: 2018 2017 Notes $ million $ million Employee benefit costs 8 208.9 207.4 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 79.8 78.4 Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 18 0.1 2.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 13 4.3 7.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 14 16.5 18.0 Amortisation of assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract 20 0.6 0.6 Operating leases minimum lease payments 8.5 9.1 Product development costs 96.9 103.0 Net foreign exchange loss 0.6 1.6 Services provided to all of the operations of the Group by the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, and its associates: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Audit services Group audit fee 0.9 0.9 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 68 to 73 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 2018 2017 Note $ million $ million French Customs duty 9.1 UK pension fund GMP equalisation past service cost 9 4.0 Portfolio review and sales organisation restructuring 5.4 Strategic review of Connected Devices 1.3 13.1 6.7 128 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS CONTINUED In 2018, the Group has recognised a $9.1 million charge in relation to an ongoing compliance dispute with Direction Gnrale des Douanes et Droits Indirects French Customs concerning the valuation and classification of imports into France which commenced in 2011.
The amount is comprised of a provision for $8.9 million note 27 and $0.2 million other costs.
In addition, following the Lloyds Bank GMP inequalities court judgement published in October 2018, the Group has equalised GMP benefits amounting to $4.0 million 3.1 million of defined benefit pension past service costs.
In 2017, Spirent concluded a portfolio and sales organisation review and also incurred a contract amendment fee in relation to outsourced research and development services.
In addition, in 2017 the Group undertook a strategic review of the Connected Devices operating segment incurring advisers fees of $1.3 million.
The tax effect of exceptional items is a credit of $3.8 million 2017 $1.9 million.
The total cash outflow in respect of exceptional items charged in 2018 is anticipated to be $9.1 million, with $0.2 million paid in the year 2017 $6.8 million with $3.4 million paid in that year.
The cash outflow in 2018 in respect of exceptional items charged in 2017 was $3.4 million 2017 $2.5 million.
The total cash outflow in respect of exceptional items is reported within cash flows from operating activities in theconsolidated cash flow statement.
FINANCE INCOME 2018 2017 $ million $ million Bank interest receivable 1.4 0.6 7.
FINANCE COSTS 2018 2017 Notes $ million $ million Net defined benefit pension plan interest 9 0.2 Unwind of discount on provisions 27 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 8.
EMPLOYEES The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2018 2017 Number Number Manufacturing 329 330 Product development 478 531 Selling and marketing 456 447 Administration 194 197 1,457 1,505 Employee benefit costs were: 2018 2017 Note $ million $ million Remuneration 183.3 184.4 Social security costs 15.6 14.3 Pension and other related costs 7.2 6.5 Expense of share-based payment 33 2.8 2.2 208.9 207.4 Please refer to the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 74 to 95 and note 36 for disclosures relating to the emoluments, shareincentives and pensions of the directors.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
PENSIONS DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS i Characteristics and risks associated with the Plans The Group sponsors two funded defined benefit pension plans in the United Kingdom: the Spirent Communications plc Staff Pension &Life Assurance Plan Staff Plan and the Spirent Communications plc Retirement Cash & Life Assurance Plan Cash Plan.
These plans are funded and have full UK HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax-exempt approval.
Both schemes are administered by a trusteeboard which is comprised of representatives from the employer, member nominated trustees and an independent trustee.
Thetrustee board operates in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules of each Plan and acts in the interests of all of its members.
The Staff Plan is the Groups most significant plan, and it provides its members with retirement benefits based on their final salary and length of service.
The Staff Plan is closed to new entrants.
The Cash Plan is primarily a defined contribution arrangement, although there are some legacy defined benefits Old Section thathave been valued for the purpose of these accounts in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Members who left service before 1992 are entitled to a cash lump sum on retirement that is based on their salary and length of service.
Members of the Old Section are entitled to defined contribution benefits, but with an underpin based on salary and length of service.
The Cash Plan is closed to new entrants.
There is also a UK unfunded plan, which consists of a contractual obligation for the Group to top up certain former employees benefits whose salaries exceeded the statutory earnings cap.
As with the vast majority of similar arrangements in the United Kingdom, the Group ultimately underwrites the risks relating to the defined benefit plans.
These risks include investment risks and demographic risks, such as the chance of members living longer than expected.
The plans hold a significant proportion of their assets in equity.
Strong future equity returns would be expected to reduce the Groups future cash contributions and vice versa.
Expected contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2019 are $6.4 million.
This includes the contributions agreed with the funded plans trustees in accordance with UK legislation.
The triennial valuation as at 1 April 2015 was in deficit, whereas the IAS 19 accounting valuation is in surplus, therefore the Group has agreed to pay $6.4million 5.0 million per annum into the Staff Plan from 1 July 2016, over a seven-year period, in order to clear the funding deficit asassessed by the trustees independent actuary.
If the contributions currently agreed are insufficient to pay the benefits due, the Group will need to make further contributions.
GMP equalisation On 26 October 2018, the High Court ruled on the Lloyds Bank GMP Inequalities case.
In response to this, an allowance of $4.0 million 3.1 million has been included on the balance sheet at 31 December 2018 to make provision for the estimated costs arising from the judgement.
This past service cost has been charged to exceptional items in the income statement in the year and relates to the Staff Plan.
There is no impact on the Cash Plan.
The Staff Plan was contracted-out between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997, and therefore has accrued GMP benefits for all members who were active during that period.
From the data available as at 31 March 2018, which was provided for the formal valuation of the Staff Plan as at that date, we have estimated the amount of the GMP liability in the Plan applicable for each member for this period of service.
In estimating the impact of equalising these benefits, we have considered the possible range of results that could arise from the various different possible methods given the circumstances of the Plan.
In particular, we note that: no decision has been made on the methodology to be adopted to equalise GMPs, but we would expect the cost to be broadly in line with method D2 or method C2, which is similar considered by the Lloyds Bank judgement: legal opinion is not yet available on how historical claims will be dealt with: at this stage we have included allowance for full backpayments on pensions in payment, but no allowance for payments in respect of past transfers and deaths: and financial assumptions, demographic assumptions, and benefits are consistent with those disclosed below.
Based on these considerations, we have included an allowance of 15 per cent of the estimated GMP liability affected by the equalisation process.
130 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 9.
PENSIONS CONTINUED We have therefore adopted the process below to calculate the allowance: 1.
Calculate proportion of Plans obligations relating to Post-1988 GMP The proportion of the Plans liabilities on an accounting basis that relate to Post-1988 GMP is estimated as 14 per cent, based on the valuation data as at 31 March 2018.
Overall, this implies that approximately 14 per cent of the Plans total IAS 19 obligations relate to Post-1988 GMPs.
Estimate the proportion of GMPs relating to benefits that need to be equalised post-1990 GMPs The requirement to equalise relates only to benefits accrued after 17 May 1990.
We estimate the obligation for GMPs accrued after this date on a pro rata basis as seven-ninths of the Post-1988 GMP obligation.
We have estimated the cost of removing GMP inequalities in the Plan is 15 per cent of post-1990 GMP obligation, giving a figure of $4.0 million 3.1 million This estimate of 15 per cent is informed by the actuarys experience of working with schemes that have already undertaken a process to remove GMP inequalities.
We have not considered the specific circumstances of the scheme in detail, on the grounds that this would be disproportionate.
The Group also operates an unfunded deferred compensation plan for employees in the United States.
The plan enables participating employees to defer a portion of their salary and invest it in deemed investments, that are used to measure the gains or losses that are attributed to the deferral account over time.
The plan has elements of a defined benefit pension retirement obligation and therefore is required to be valued in accordance with IAS 19. ii Amounts in the financial statements The assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Schemes in net asset position UK defined benefit pension plan Staff Plan 1.4 UK defined benefit pension plan Cash Plan 1.1 1.2 2.5 1.2 Schemes in net liability position UK defined benefit pension plan Staff Plan 3.4 UK unfunded plan 0.6 0.6 US deferred compensation plan 3.5 3.7 4.1 7.7 Net pension plan deficit on the balance sheet 1.6 6.5 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
PENSIONS CONTINUED a The assets and liabilities in each plan 2018 2017 $ million $ million Staff Plan Quoted Equities 53.4 65.7 Government bonds 5.2 5.8 Corporate bonds 4.1 5.3 Unquoted LDI funds 40.4 50.0 Cash benchmarked bonds 95.5 102.0 Hedge funds 23.8 26.7 Insured annuities 2.7 3.4 Property 1.4 1.5 Cash and other 17.9 10.9 Fair value of plan assets 244.4 271.3 Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations 243.0 274.7 Surplus deficit in the plan 1.4 3.4 Cash Plan Quoted Equities 4.2 4.6 Government bonds 3.4 4.3 Unquoted Insured annuities 0.1 0.1 Cash and other 2.1 2.3 Fair value of plan assets 9.8 11.3 Present value of defined benefit pension plan obligations 8.7 10.1 Surplus in the plan 1.1 1.2 Total net surplus deficit recognised 2.5 2.2 Unfunded plan Present value of unfunded obligations 0.6 0.6 Deferred compensation plan Present value of deferred compensation obligations 3.5 3.7 Net pension plan deficit on the balance sheet 1.6 6.5 Approximately two-thirds of the Staff Plans assets are held in a combination of LDI funds, cash benchmarked bonds and hedge funds.
The objective of this allocation is to hedge against the plans liabilities, provide protection against inflation risk and to provide a level of investment returns in all market scenarios.
These funds have a wide investment remit and as such the investments of the funds may or may not be listed on recognised exchanges and markets and will be without restriction as to geographical, industrial or sectoral exposure.
These funds may take both long and short positions and may utilise a broad range of derivatives.
The funds investments may include sub-investment grade securities, corporate debt securities, gilts, sale and repurchase agreements, loans, and emerging markets debt and currencies.
The plans are prohibited from investing in Spirents own financial instruments.
The fair values of the quoted equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values of the other assets are not.
Unquoted investments are included at values provided by the fund managers and are generally valued using recent market data and external sources, with a hierarchy that follows the principles of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group has determined that it has an unconditional right to refund of surplus assets if the schemes are run off until the last member dies, on which basis IFRIC 14 does not cause any change in the balance sheet disclosures before tax.
For the purposes of the following disclosures the Staff Plan and Cash Plan have been combined as the Cash Plan is immaterial to these financial statements.
132 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 9.
PENSIONS CONTINUED b Analysis of the amounts charged to the income statement 2018 2017 $ million $ million Plan administration expenses 0.5 0.4 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Amount charged to operating costs 0.6 0.5 Past service cost charged to exceptional items GMP equalisation 4.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit pension liability 0.2 Net charge to the income statement 4.6 0.7 c Analysis of amount recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income 2018 2017 $ million $ million Re-measurement loss gain on plans assets 14.2 10.5 Actuarial gain loss arising from experience 3.1 0.8 Actuarial gain arising from the demographic assumptions 1.9 5.5 Actuarial gain loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 12.0 9.7 Re-measurement of the net defined benefit pension liability 2.8 5.5 d Movements in the present value of funded defined benefit obligations 2018 2017 $ million $ million At 1 January 284.8 260.9 Current service cost 0.1 0.1 Past service cost 4.0 Interest cost 7.0 7.3 Benefit payments 12.1 11.7 Actuarial gain loss arising from experience 3.1 0.8 Actuarial gain arising from the demographic assumptions 1.9 5.5 Actuarial gain loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 12.0 9.7 Exchange adjustment 15.1 23.2 Present value of funded defined benefit pension plans obligations 251.7 284.8 e Movements in the fair value of plans assets 2018 2017 $ million $ million At 1 January 282.6 248.1 Interest income on plans assets 7.0 7.1 Employer contributions 6.8 6.6 Benefit payments 12.1 11.7 Plan administration expenses 0.5 0.4 Re-measurement loss gain on plans assets 14.2 10.5 Exchange adjustment 15.4 22.4 Fair value of plans assets 254.2 282.6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
PENSIONS CONTINUED f The key financial assumptions The assumptions used for both plans using a weighted average were as follows: 2018 2017 % % Inflation RPI 3.2 3.1 Inflation CPI 2.1 2.0 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 2.1 2.0 Rate of increase for pensions in payment pre 2001 service 3.7 3.6 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2001 to 5 April 2005 service 3.1 3.0 Rate of increase for pensions post 5 April 2005 service 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.1 2.0 Rate used to discount plan liabilities 2.8 2.5 The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements.
The assumptions are such that a member currently aged 65 2017 aged 65 will live on average for a further 22.5 years 2017 22.7 years if they are male and for a further 24.5 years 2017 24.6 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2038 2017 in 2037 at age 65 2017 age 65, the assumptions are that they will live on average for a further 23.9 years 2017 24.1 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 26.0 years 2017 26.1 years after retirement if they are female.
iii Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows The approximate impact to the past service liabilities of changing these main assumptions is as follows: Reducing the discount rate by 0.1 per cent per annum would increase past service liabilities by $3.4 million 2017 $4.2 million.
Increasing RPI inflation by 0.1 per cent would increase the plans liabilities by $1.3 million 2017 $1.5 million.
Increasing the life expectancy of a member by one year by modifying the standard mortality tables using an appropriate scaling factor would increase past service liabilities by $11.5 million 2017 $13.9 million.
There will also be an impact on the future service cost but given the small active population in these plans this is likely to be insignificant.
The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of the actual change as the changes in assumptions may not occur in isolation.
The liability has the following duration and maturity: 2018 2017 Weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation years 15 15 Maturity analysis of benefit payments non-discounted amounts $ million Maturity 1 year 10.4 10.4 Maturity 1 5 years 43.2 43.5 Maturity 5 10 years 119.0 124.9 Maturity 10 20 years 103.0 113.3 Maturity 20 30 years 68.0 78.8 Maturity 30 years 42.9 52.4 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN At 31 December 2018, the deferred compensation plan deficit amounted to $3.5 million 2017 $3.7 million.
During the year, $0.2 million was charged to the income statement 2017 $0.3 million and a re-measurement gain of $0.5 million 2017 $0.9 million loss was recognised directly in the statement of other comprehensive income.
The key financial assumptions include a discount rate used to discount plan liabilities of 4.2 per cent 2017 3.4 per cent and an expected investment yield of 6.4 per cent 2017 7.5 per cent.
There is no material impact in 2018 or 2017 of changing each of the key assumptions by 0.1 per cent, in isolation.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS United Kingdom The Group contributes towards defined contribution pension plans for employees in the United Kingdom.
Employer contributions into these plans for 2018 were $0.9 million 2017 $0.8 million.
United States The Group maintains a defined contribution pension plan for employees of its United States subsidiaries.
This plan, also known as a401 k Plan, allows employees to defer a percentage of their salary for retirement.
In aggregate, theGroups contributions to the US plan totalled $3.9 million for 2018 2017 $4.0 million.
There were no defined benefit plans in the UnitedStates in 2018 or 2017.
134 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 9.
PENSIONS CONTINUED Other jurisdictions Outside the United Kingdom and the United States, employees are provided with pension arrangements determined in accordance with approved local practice and regulations.
These arrangements are defined contribution plans.
Total employer contributions for 2018 in respect of these plans amounted to $1.2 million 2017 $1.1 million.
Total employer contributions to defined contribution plans were $6.0 million 2017 $5.9 million.
Directors pension arrangements The pension arrangements of the executive directors are described in detail in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 74 to 95.
TAX 2018 2017 $ million $ million Tax charge in the income statement Current income tax UK tax 0.1 0.1 Foreign tax 6.2 7.4 Amounts overprovided underprovided in previous years 1.2 0.1 Total current income tax charge 5.1 7.6 Deferred tax Recognition of deferred tax assets US Research and Experimental tax credit 1.5 Recognition of deferred tax assets other 0.8 0.8 Write-off of previously recognised tax assets including rate changes 8.0 Reversal of temporary differences 1.4 3.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 1.3 Total deferred tax charge 0.3 10.0 Tax charge in the income statement 5.4 17.6 The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2018 was $5.4 million 2017 $17.6 million.
This was after a prior year tax credit of $1.5 million and a tax credit on the adjusting items of $5.2 million 2017 prior year charge of $1.4 million and tax charge on adjusting items of $3.1 million.
Excluding the prior year and tax charge on adjusting items, the effective tax rate was 15.4 per cent 2017 22.1 per cent.
Tax relating to items charged credited to other comprehensive income or equity: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Deferred tax on share incentives 0.3 0.3 Current tax on share incentives 0.1 Tax credit on share incentives 0.4 0.3 Deferred tax charge on defined benefit pension plan 0.6 1.0 Deferred tax charge credit on deferred compensation plan 0.1 0.2 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
TAX CONTINUED RECONCILIATION OF THE TOTAL TAX CHARGE The tax charge in the income statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00 per cent 2017 19.25 per cent.
The differences are reconciled below: Year ended 31 December 2018 Adjusted Adjusting Reported $ million $ million $ million Accounting profit before tax 78.4 17.2 61.2 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 19.00 per cent 14.9 3.3 11.6 Differences in overseas rates 3.3 1.5 1.8 Non-taxable income 0.8 0.4 1.2 Recognition of temporary differences previously not recgonised for deferred tax 0.8 0.8 Current year losses upon which no deferred tax recognised 0.4 0.4 Utilisation of temporary differences not previously recognised 1.3 1.3 UK & US Research and Experimental tax credit 2.0 2.0 Withholding tax 0.8 0.8 Permanent differences 2.4 2.4 Tax overprovided in prior years 1.5 1.5 Total tax charge reported in the income statement 12.1 6.7 5.4 Year ended 31 December 2017 Adjusted Adjusting Reported $ million $ million $ million Accounting profit before tax 59.2 12.6 46.6 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax 19.25 per cent 11.4 2.4 9.0 Differences in overseas rates 5.5 1.6 3.9 US tax rate change 7.9 7.9 Non-taxable income 1.0 0.3 1.3 Recognition of deferred tax assets 0.3 0.5 0.8 Write-off of previously recognised tax assets including rate changes 0.2 0.2 Current year losses upon which no deferred tax recognised 0.6 0.6 UK & US Research and Experimental tax credit 2.5 2.5 Withholding tax 0.8 0.8 Permanent differences 0.4 0.4 Tax underprovided in prior years 1.4 1.4 Total tax charge reported in the income statement 13.1 4.5 17.6 Included in the above reconciliation are the following items: Research and Experimental tax credits of $2.0 million: non-taxable income of $1.2 million, most of which relates to offshore income in the rest of the world: permanent differences of $2.4 million largely relating to the UK patent box deduction: and a recognition of deferred tax assets in Canada of $0.8 million.
The Groups tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and reflects a combination of higher statutory tax rates in certain jurisdictions, and other regions with significantly lower statutory tax rates.
Regional statutory tax rates range from a high of 33.3 per cent to a low of 15 per cent.
The UK Patent Box deduction benefit of $1.6 million 2017 $0.7 million and Research and Experimental credits of $2.0 million 2017 $2.5 million bring down the rate but items such as state taxes and withholding tax increase our tax rate.
136 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 11.
EARNINGS PER SHARE BASIC Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year.
DILUTED Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares into Ordinary Shares.
2018 2017 $ million $ million Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 55.8 29.0 Number Number million million Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue basic 610.4 610.6 Dilutive potential of employee share incentives 6.5 5.5 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue diluted 616.9 616.1 Cents Cents Earnings per share Basic 9.14 4.75 Diluted 9.05 4.71 ADJUSTED The Group is disclosing adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent Company in order to provide a measure to enable period-on-period comparisons to be made of its performance.
The following items are excluded from adjusted earnings: Exceptional items Acquired intangible asset amortisation Share-based payment Gain on divestment Tax effect on the above items Prior year tax adjustments made to provisions in respect of prior years Revaluation of deferred tax assets due to US tax reform in 2017 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED A reconciliation is provided below: 2018 2017 Notes $ million EPS cents $ million EPS cents Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Company 55.8 9.14 29.0 4.75 Exceptional items 5 13.1 6.7 Acquired intangible asset amortisation 3.7 6.3 Share-based payment 33 2.8 2.2 Gain on divestment 35 2.4 2.6 Tax effect on the above items 10 5.2 4.8 Revaluation of deferred tax assets due to US tax reform 10 7.9 Prior year tax credit charge 10 1.5 1.4 Adjusted basic 66.3 10.86 46.1 7.55 Adjusted diluted 10.75 7.48 There were no Ordinary Share transactions that occurred after 31 December that would have significantly changed the number of Ordinary Shares or potential Ordinary Shares outstanding at the period end if those transactions had occurred before the end of the reporting period in either year.
DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED 2018 2017 $ million $ million Declared and paid in the year Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares Final dividend 2017 of 2.40 cents 1.73 pence per Ordinary Share 2016 2.21 cents 1.59 pence 14.3 14.2 Special dividend 2017 of 5.00 cents 3.60 pence per Ordinary Share 29.9 Interim dividend 2018 of 1.76 cents 1.34 pence per Ordinary Share 2017 1.68 cents 1.27 pence 10.6 10.4 54.8 24.6 Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividend on Ordinary Shares Final dividend 2018 of 2.73 cents 2.08 pence per Ordinary Share 2017 2.40 cents 1.73 pence 16.7 14.3 Special dividend 2017 of 5.00 cents 3.60 pence per Ordinary Share 29.9 16.7 44.2 The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 2.73 cents per Ordinary Share 2.08 pence 2017 2.40 cents 1.73 pence, which will absorb an estimated $16.7 million of shareholders funds 2017 $14.3 million.
The final dividend will bepaid on 3 May 2019 to Ordinary shareholders whoare on the Register of Members at close of business on 15 March 2019.
Payment will be made to ADR holders on 10 May 2019.
Noliability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of these dividends.
Dividends are determined in US dollars and paid in pounds sterling.
The exchange rate for determining the amount of the final dividend to be paid for 2018 was $1.31: 1 2017 $1.39: 1.
138 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 13.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS $ million Customer Current Brand Goodwill list technology names Other Licences Total Cost, net of accumulated amortisation and impairmentlosses At 1 January 2017 155.7 4.0 7.4 0.5 2.2 169.8 Additions 0.4 0.4 Adjustments 0.1 0.3 0.4 Amortisation for the year 1.8 4.2 0.3 0.8 7.1 Exchange adjustment 1.1 0.2 0.9 At 1 January 2018 156.8 2.1 2.9 0.2 1.6 163.6 Additions Disposals 0.2 0.2 Amortisation for the year 1.5 2.0 0.2 0.6 4.3 Exchange adjustment 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2018 155.7 0.6 0.9 0.8 158.0 At 31 December 2017 Cost gross carrying amount 595.4 16.9 36.2 2.3 3.6 12.1 666.5 Amortisation and accumulated impairmentlosses 438.6 14.8 33.3 2.1 3.6 10.5 502.9 Net carrying amount 156.8 2.1 2.9 0.2 1.6 163.6 At 31 December 2018 Cost gross carrying amount 593.4 16.9 36.2 2.3 3.6 11.9 664.3 Amortisation and accumulated impairmentlosses 437.7 16.3 35.3 2.3 3.6 11.1 506.3 Net carrying amount 155.7 0.6 0.9 0.8 158.0 Goodwill is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group identifies CGUs at the lowest level at which cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows.
Goodwill has been allocated to three CGUs, which align with the reportable operating segments, as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Networks & Security 72.0 73.1 Lifecycle Service Assurance 37.6 37.6 Connected Devices 46.1 46.1 155.7 156.8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED ANNUAL IMPAIRMENT TEST The Group has an annual impairment testing date of 30 November.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations were: revenue growth rates: gross margin: operating expenses: discount rate: and growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the five-year period covered by managements projections.
The cash flows are derived from the most recent financial budgets for the next financial year, as approved by management, and the Groups three-year strategic plan.
Cash flows in years four and five are extrapolated based on long range plans.
Cash flows in subsequent years have been extrapolated using a steady 2.5 per cent for all CGUs 2017 2.5 per cent for all CGUs, which management estimates to be the approximate average long-term growth rate for the industries in which these units operate.
Fundamentally this long-term growth is based on a proxy for global long-term inflation taking into consideration more developed and developing markets.
The growth rates used in the value in use calculations are set at the same level for each CGU as all the CGUs operate within similar markets which share the same growth drivers and characteristics.
The discount rates incorporate the specific risks relating to each CGU.
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is based on the weighted average cost of capital of comparable companies by taking the risk free rate for 30-year government bonds and making an adjustment to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities.
In making this adjustment, the inputs required are the equity market risk premium, beta, and the risk adjustment applied to reflect the systematic risk of Spirent and the specific CGUs, taking into account factors such as size and the territories in which each CGU operates.
The cash flows have been discounted using the following pre-tax discount rates: 2018 2017 % % Networks & Security 15.1 15.6 Lifecycle Service Assurance 14.3 16.7 Connected Devices 14.8 14.9 For Spirent the key factor in relation to the cash flow forecasts is the ability to forecast revenue.
All CGUs operate in the data technology market and generate a high gross profit gross margin : consequently changes in revenue can have a significant impact onthe operating profit and cash flows.
Revenue growth rates used in the projections are based on managements estimate of growth in the markets served and take into account historical levels of growth, expected future developments in products and technology, industry forecasts and macroeconomic conditions in the territories in which the CGUs operate.
Gross margin and operating expenses are based on historical values adjusted for the effect of revenue growth and cost reduction actions committed prior to the impairment testing date.
At Networks & Security, Cloud and IP is expected to maintain its leadership position in high-speed Ethernet, and this together with optimised 400G volumes and growth in network virtualisation, is expected to drive earnings.
Further growth in Networks & Security is expected in the Positioning business, with focus on core markets in APAC and on the emerging autonomous vehicle market.
Management expects that the security business will benefit in the longer term from the launch of data breach emulation, and also the move to a subscription model and further expansion of SecurityLabs into EMEA and APAC.
Application Security is expected to benefit from synergies with Positioning and continued expansion in complementary solutions with Cloud and IP.
The continuing drive in lab sales and enhancements to the feature set at the Mobility Infrastructure business unit is expected to grow revenue in Lifecycle Service Assurance on a relatively flat cost base in the near term.
Management expects revenue increases at the Customer Experience Management business unit driven by the VisionWorks sales strategy and a relatively flat gross margin over the three-year forecast period.
The Lumos legacy business in Lifecycle Service Assurance is expected to drop in the near term to be replaced by growth in new Ethernet products supported by investment in product development, particularly in virtualisation.
The individual business units in Lifecycle Service Assurance are expected to work together to deliver the three-year plan to meet changes in customer needs and the competitive landscape.
Revenue is expected to grow at Connected Devices as the smartphone market recovers, driven by network emulator partnerships with growth in 5G.
Management expects gross margin improvement as a result of product mix shifting to more software solutions and cost reduction initiatives, including a new channel emulator platform and a new network emulator platform.
Operating expenses are expected to remain relatively flat as business unit integration synergies are leveraged following recent organisational change and research and development flexibility is gained from outsourcing programmes and shifting investment to new growth areas.
The recoverable amount of each CGU was calculated on a value in use basis and was in excess of its carrying value.
Consequently, no impairment has been recognised.
140 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 13.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN KEY ASSUMPTIONS The directors believe that no reasonable possible change in any of the key assumptions used, in isolation, would cause the value in use of the Networks & Security and Lifecycle Service Assurance CGUs to fall below the carrying value.
The headroom on the Connected Devices CGU was $38.9 million.
Sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions has indicated that for the Connected Devices CGU, a 30 per cent decrease in forecast revenue in year one and continuing to apply the forecast growth rates to subsequent years, in isolation and without cost mitigation, would cause the value in use to fall below the carrying value.
There is no reasonable possible change in the discount rate and long-term growth rate, in isolation, that would cause the value in use of the Connected Devices CGU to fall below the carrying value.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS There was no impairment charge in respect of the other intangible assets in either 2018 or 2017.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT $ million Fixtures, Land and Plant and fittings and buildings machinery equipment Total Cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment At 1 January 2017 15.3 19.9 12.1 47.3 Additions owned assets 1.7 10.1 3.1 14.9 Disposals 0.2 1.9 0.2 2.3 Inter-class transfers 0.5 0.5 Depreciation charge for the year 2.6 10.7 4.7 18.0 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 At 1 January 2018 14.3 17.1 10.9 42.3 Additions owned assets 0.8 9.7 1.5 12.0 Disposals 1.4 1.4 Depreciation charge for the year 2.9 9.2 4.4 16.5 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2018 12.1 16.0 8.0 36.1 At 31 December 2017 Cost 26.4 82.1 57.3 165.8 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 12.1 65.0 46.4 123.5 Net carrying amount 14.3 17.1 10.9 42.3 At 31 December 2018 Cost 26.1 80.7 57.3 164.1 Accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 14.0 64.7 49.3 128.0 Net carrying amount 12.1 16.0 8.0 36.1 None of the property, plant and equipment is held under finance lease arrangements.
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE The carrying amount for Jolata is nil in 2018 2017 nil and is individually immaterial.
Jolata, Inc. Jolata is a company incorporated in the United States and its principal activity is the provision of network testing.
Jolata is considered an associate as the Group controls 26 per cent 2017 26 per cent of the voting power and therefore has significant influence over the entity.
The investment in Jolata has been impaired in full and the recoverable amount is therefore nil.
The Group has $1.0 million cumulative unrecognised share of losses in Jolata 2017 $1.0 million.
The Groups share of Jolatas total comprehensive income is immaterial in 2018 and 2017.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had capital commitments in relation to property, plant and equipment of $0.7 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 $0.8 million.
SUBSIDIARIES A list of subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given on pages 178 and 179 of these financial statements.
INVENTORIES 2018 2017 $ million $ million Raw materials 6.6 4.3 Work in progress 1.2 0.8 Finished goods 17.9 18.5 25.7 23.6 An expense of $0.1 million 2017 $2.3 million has been recognised in the year for inventory write-downs.
There were no reversals of prior period inventory write-downs 2017 nil.
No inventories are carried at fair value less costs to sell 2017 nil.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2018 2017 $ million $ million Non-current Other receivables 3.5 4.1 Prepayments 1.0 4.5 4.1 Current Trade receivables 123.4 113.8 Other receivables 3.5 4.8 Prepayments 11.2 9.2 Deferred costs 1.8 2.3 139.9 130.1 144.4 134.2 The trade receivables are stated net of an allowance for expected credit losses.
The movement in the allowance was as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million At 1 January 1.2 2.3 Charge for the year 0.5 0.3 Released in the year 0.8 1.4 At 31 December 0.9 1.2 The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number of customers.
142 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS CURRENT 2018 2017 $ million $ million Other financial assets 0.1 Other financial assets comprises forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
ASSETS RECOGNISED FROM COSTS TO OBTAIN A CONTRACT 2018 2017 $ million $ million Non-current Assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract 0.5 0.4 Current Assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract 0.5 0.6 1.0 1.0 These assets relate to capitalised incremental costs to obtain a contract, being sales commissions, arising on contracts with customers of over one year in length.
During the year, amortisation of $0.6 million was charged to the income statement 2017 $0.6 million.
No assets were impaired or derecognised during the current year or prior year.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 $ million $ million Cash at bank and in hand 57.7 83.3 Short-term bank deposits 63.9 45.1 121.6 128.4 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating interest rates.
Of the total cash and cash equivalents balance, $63.9 million 2017 $45.1 million is callable at notice of three months or less at the date of investment.
Short-term bank deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the short-term deposit rates appropriate for the term of the deposit and currency.
At the end of 2018, the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 83 per cent 2017 85 per cent, sterling 8 per cent 2017 11 per cent and other currencies 9 per cent 2017 4 per cent.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the above amounts.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES CURRENT 1 2018 2017 $ million $ million Trade payables 12.9 16.3 Payments received on account 1.4 3.8 Other taxes and social security costs 3.7 3.5 Other payables 1.0 0.9 Accruals 44.1 45.7 63.1 70.2 Note 1.
Deferred income has been reclassified to its own line item in the balance sheet.
See note 37 for further details.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
Other payables are non-interest bearing.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
GOVERNMENT GRANTS The following government grants are included within trade and other payables: 2018 2017 $ million $ million At 1 January 2.6 2.4 Received during the year 0.1 0.5 Released to the income statement 0.4 0.3 At 31 December 2.3 2.6 2018 2017 $ million $ million Current 1.3 1.2 Non-current 1.0 1.4 2.3 2.6 Government grants have been received to accelerate and support research and development in the vulnerability of Global Navigation Satellite Systems and other high technology projects.
DEFERRED INCOME 2018 2017 $ million $ million Current Deferred income 55.2 61.7 Non-current Deferred income 14.4 11.0 69.6 72.7 The Groups deferred income balances relate solely to revenue from contracts with customers.
144 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 25.
DEFERRED TAX The movements in the deferred tax assets liabilities are as follows: $ million Temporary UK pension Notes differences Tax losses Tax credits plans Total 1 At 1 January 2017, restated 18.1 8.2 3.9 2.6 32.8 Credited in the year 10 5.3 1.3 2.3 1.1 10.0 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan 10 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax on deferred compensation plan 10 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity 10 0.3 0.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 0.5 0.6 1 At 1 January 2018, restated 13.4 7.4 1.6 0.5 22.9 Charged credited in the year 10 2.3 1.5 0.7 0.4 0.3 Deferred tax on defined benefit pension plan 10 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax on deferred compensation plan 10 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax on share incentives recognised in equity 10 0.3 0.3 Transfers 1.0 1.0 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2018 15.7 4.8 1.9 0.4 22.0 Amounts on the balance sheet: At 31 December 2017 Deferred tax asset 13.7 7.4 1.6 0.5 23.2 1 Deferred tax liability, restated 0.3 0.3 13.4 7.4 1.6 0.5 22.9 At 31 December 2018 Deferred tax asset 15.9 4.8 1.9 22.6 Deferred tax liability 0.2 0.4 0.6 15.7 4.8 1.9 0.4 22.0 Note 1.
Restated for the adoption of IRFS 15 on 1 January 2018, as per note 37.
In 2018, the deferred tax asset and liability have been offset on the balance sheet as they relate to income taxes raised by the same authority on the same taxable entity.
A deferred tax asset of $22.0 million has been recognised at 31 December 2018 2017 $23.2 million.
$2.0 million is in the United Kingdom 2017 $3.5 million, $14.7 million is in the United States 2017 $18.8 million, $3.6 million is in France 2017 $0.1 million and $1.7 million is in the rest of the world 2017 $0.8 million.
The deferred tax asset includes $1.6 million 2017 $1.1 million in respect of the tax deduction which may be available on the future exercise of share incentives.
The Group has tax losses arising in the United Kingdom of $38.3 million 2017 $40.0 million, at the State level in the United States of $5.5 million 2017 $22.4 million, and the rest of the world of $0.0 million 2017 $0.4 million that are available for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
The US tax losses can be carried forward until 2036.
Additionally, there are short-term timing differences in the rest of the world of $4.9 million 2017 $3.5 million, tax credits at the State level in the United States and the rest of the world of $7.2 million and $1.2 million, respectively 2017 $7.1 million and $2.2 million.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these items as their future recovery is uncertain.
The Group has capital losses carried forward of $1,045.6 million 2017 $1,103.2 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised on the balance sheet.
This change is due to foreign exchange movements.
These capital losses have no expiry date.
The temporary difference associated with investments in the Groups subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised in the periods presented, aggregate $255.8 million 2017 $258.4 million.
The Group does not expect a significant amount of the undistributed profits to be distributed in the foreseeable future.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED CHANGES IN TAX RATES Following the enactment of the United Kingdom Finance Act 2016, which reduced the United Kingdom rate of corporation tax to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and by a further 2 per cent to 17 per cent from April 2020, no further United Kingdom corporation tax reductions have been announced.
As such, the United Kingdom temporary differences have been recognised at the rate at which the temporary differences are expected to unwind.
In line with these rate changes, deferred tax assets and liabilities being realised or settled before 2020 have been based on a rate of 19 per cent.
Those being realised or settled after 2020 have been based on a rate of 17 per cent.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES NON-CURRENT 2018 2017 $ million $ million Other payables 5.4 5.4 27.
PROVISIONS $ million Lease Restructuring Other provisions provisions provisions Total At 1 January 2017 3.1 2.3 1.4 6.8 Charged in the year 0.8 3.7 0.5 5.0 Asset retirement obligation 0.1 0.1 Released in the year 0.1 0.1 0.2 Utilised in the year 0.3 4.6 4.9 Unwind of discount 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.2 0.1 0.3 Exchange difference 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 1 January 2018 3.5 1.4 1.9 6.8 Charged in the year 0.5 9.4 9.9 Asset retirement obligation 0.5 0.5 Released in the year 0.1 0.9 1.0 Utilised in the year 0.5 1.8 0.1 2.4 Unwind of discount 0.1 0.1 Exchange difference 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2018 3.6 10.4 14.0 2018 2017 $ million $ million Current 10.7 3.6 Non-current 3.3 3.2 14.0 6.8 The lease provisions are for the continuing obligations under leases in respect of space which has been vacated by the Group and property dilapidation and restoration provisions.
Where material, lease obligations are discounted.
The Group expects these provisions to be utilised over one to six years.
Other provisions comprise environmental provisions related to property disposed of, provisions relating to legal claims and a provision relating to a Notice of Recovery received from French Customs, discussed below.
The Group expects these provisions to be utilised in less than one year.
The Group has made a provision for $8.9 million following the receipt of a Notice of Recovery from the Direction Gnrale des Douanes et Droits Indirects French Customs in relation to the valuation and classification of duty on certain imports into France.
This is an ongoing dispute which commenced with enquiries in 2011.
Spirent adopted a duty tariff based on World Customs Organisation guidelines which conflicted with European Union regulation.
A contingent liability relating to French Customs was disclosed in the prior year.
The import regulations changed on 1 January 2017 and no liability exists after that date.
Spirent has provided for the liability up until the date of the change, which encompasses the period covered by the Notice of Recovery.
The amount of the provision includes uncertainties with regard not only to the legitimacy of the basis of the claim made by the French authorities, but also in relation to the period in question, the appropriate tariff classification, the recoverability of import VAT, and the population and valuation of goods potentially subject to duty.
The Group strongly refutes the basis of claim received under the Notice of Recovery.
146 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 28.
CONTRACT BALANCES The following table provides information about receivables and contract liabilities from contracts with customers.
The Group does not have any contract assets.
2018 2017 2016 Notes $ million $ million $ million Trade receivables 19 123.4 113.8 112.2 Contract liabilities Payments received on account 22 1.4 3.8 2.7 Deferred income 24 69.6 72.7 70.6 71.0 76.5 73.3 Revenue recognised in the period from amounts included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period 65.5 62.1 61.6 There was no revenue recognised in 2018, 2017, or 2016 from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods.
The timing of revenue recognition, invoicing and cash collections results in trade receivables, deferred income and advance customer payments received on account on the balance sheet.
The Group receives payments from customers based on a billing schedule, as established in the contract.
Trade receivables are recognised when the right to consideration becomes unconditional.
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue as or when we perform under the contract.
The Group also recognises incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract as an asset if it expects to recover those costs.
Such costs are presented in the balance sheet as assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract and disclosed in note 20.
EXPECTED REALISATION OF REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS AT YEAR END The Group applies the practical expedient in paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
For contracts that exceed one year, deferred income that relates to unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations at year end, are expected to be recognised as revenue in the future as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Within 1 year 15.5 17.1 Greater than 1 year 12.7 11.5 28.2 28.6 The above information represents the revenue the Group will recognise when it satisifies the remaining performance obligations in the contracts.
The amounts presented do not include orders for which neither party has performed.
Revenue from the sale of hardware and software generally arises from contracts less than one year in length.
Consequently, the above amounts predominantly relate to the sale of maintenance and support services.
Virtually all of the revenue will be recognised within three years.
The Group provides standard warranties on its products and services.
The nature of these warranties is considered to provide customers with assurance that the related product or service will function as intended in accordance with the agreed specification, and does not contain or imply any additional service obligation to the customer.
Warranty obligations are estimated and recognised as liabilities based on the probable outflow of resources.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The main purpose of the Groups financial instruments, other than trade receivables, trade payables and provisions, is to fund the Groups liquidity requirements.
All of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are categorised as financial assets liabilities stated at amortised cost, except for forward foreign currency exchange contracts, included within current other financial assets, that are designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and corporate owned life insurance, amounting to $2.4 million 2017 $2.5 million, included within non-current trade and other receivables, that is designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
These are shown in the below table: 2018 2017 Notes $ million $ million Non-current trade and other receivables 19 3.5 4.1 Cash and cash equivalents 21 121.6 128.4 Current trade and other receivables 19 126.9 118.6 Current other financial assets 19 0.1 Financial assets 252.0 251.2 Non-current other payables, excluding government grants 26 4.4 4.0 Current trade payables, other payables and accruals 22 58.0 62.9 Contractual provisions 27 3.6 3.5 Financial liabilities 66.0 70.4 The Group enters into derivative transactions, forward foreign currency exchange contracts, for the management of the Groups foreign currency exposures when deemed appropriate.
The key objective of the Groups treasury department is to manage the financial risks of the business and to ensure that sufficient liquidity is available to the Group.
All treasury activity operates within a formal control framework.
The Board has approved treasury policies and guidelines and periodically reviews treasury activities.
Additionally, it is the Groups policy that speculative treasury transactions are expressly forbidden.
A MARKET RISK The main types of market risk that affect the Group are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
Interest rate risk The Group has no external debt and has limited exposure to interest rate risk.
The Groups excess funds are principally held in the United Kingdom and the United States and invested in on-demand or short-term bank deposits.
It therefore has some exposure to interest rate risk arising on changes in sterling and US dollar interest rates.
Cash and cash equivalents, long-term cash on deposit and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are the Groups financial instruments which are exposed to interest rate risk.
Short-term bank deposits and forward foreign currency exchange contracts mature within three months.
The financial instruments bear the following interest rates: 2018 2017 Effective Effective interest rate interest rate % $ million % $ million Fixed rate Fixed deposits 2.52 63.9 1.46 45.1 Floating rate Cash at bank and in hand 57.7 83.3 Interest rates on financial instruments classified as fixed rate are fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
All fixed rate deposits mature within three months after which date they will be exposed to floating rates of interest.
Interest receivable for the year note 6 was $1.4 million 2017 $0.6 million and is under the effective interest method.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above table are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
A movement of 25 basis points in interest rates based on levels of investment at 31 December 2018 would increase or reduce interest income and equity by $0.2 million 2017 $0.2 million.
148 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Exchange rate risk Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Group in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group has the majority of its operations in the United States and presents its consolidated financial statements in US dollars.
TheCompanys functional currency is sterling and its share capital is denominated in pounds sterling: the Group also has operations inEurope and Asia and therefore its results and assets and liabilities are affected on translation by movements in exchange rates in relation to the US dollar.
The Group does not enter into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries since these are considered accounting and not cash exposures.
The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies: consequently exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters using forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The main exposures arise in relation to the retranslation of foreign operations to US dollar, on non-local currency denominated transactions and on non-local currency denominated cash balances.
These exposures predominantly arise on sterling, Euro and Chinese Yuan transactions and balances.
A 10 per cent appreciation or depreciation of these currencies against the US dollar would decrease or increase profit before tax based on the activity in the period and balances at the reporting date as follows: sterling $3.1 million, Euro $0.3 million and Chinese Yuan $1.4 million 2017 in aggregate $1.9 million.
B CREDIT RISK Investment counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the Board with pre-approved limits set for each bank to avoid any concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet date under financial instruments in relation to cash and bank deposits is equal to the carrying value of $121.6 million 2017 $128.4 million.
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for expected credit losses.
Trade receivable exposures are managed in the business units where they arise.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk attributable to its trade receivables as the exposure is spread over a large number of customers with no one customer accounting for more than 10 per cent of total Group revenue.
The maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet date in relation to trade receivables is equal to the carrying value of $123.4 million 2017 $113.8 million.
The credit risk relating to trade receivables has not increased significantly from the prior year.
The composition of trade receivables at 31 December is as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Neither impaired nor past due 99.8 86.0 Past due but not impaired: Less than 30 days overdue 16.8 15.1 30 to 60 days 3.2 6.7 Over 60 days 3.6 6.0 Trade receivables 123.4 113.8 The Group closely monitors amounts due from customers and performs activities such as credit checks and reviews of payment history and has put in place appropriate credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the quality of those receivables that are past due but not impaired as low risk.
The receivables provision is based on expected credit losses.
The movement on the provision during the year is given in note 19.
The value of impaired trade receivables is $0.9 million 2017 $1.2 million.
For all other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED C LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups objective is to ensure that there are sufficient sources of funding to meet projected requirements.
Its operations are financed through cash and cash equivalents held centrally and cash generated from operations.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of $121.6 million 2017 $128.4 million, of which $57.7 million 2017 $83.3million is available on demand and $63.9 million matures within three months 2017 $45.1 million matures within three months.
During 2018, the Group generated $60.2 million of cash from operating activities 2017 $69.3 million and considers that, with current cash resources, no debt and positive cash flow from its operating activities, it has adequate resources available to it to remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group has entered into forward foreign currency exchange contracts at 31 December, all of which mature within three months.
The gross settlement amounts of these contracts are as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Sale of US dollars against sterling 13.1 8.0 The Group is debt free and does not have loans payable.
Financial liabilities are trade and other payables, the majority of which are due to be settled within one year, and contractual provisions note 27.
The Group does not have any other material financial contractual commitments.
D FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value although the amounts at 31 December 2018 and 2017 were immaterial.
Corporate owned life insurance is stated at fair value and is at Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy as the valuation of the linked investments is based on quoted prices in active markets.
E CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Groups capital is its total shareholders funds.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions.
Spirents policy on the payment of dividends to shareholders is to maintain a sustainable dividend.
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 $ million $ million Within one year 9.6 9.2 In the second to fifth years 28.7 30.2 Over five years 2.2 6.9 40.5 46.3 The Group leases certain land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with a variety of terms.
The Group also leases certain plant and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
150 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 31.
EQUITY A ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 3 pence each: Number of Ordinary Shares million $ million At 1 January 2017 611.7 25.3 Exchange adjustment 2.2 At 1 January 2018 611.7 27.5 Exchange adjustment 1.5 At 31 December 2018 611.7 26.0 B EQUITY AND RESERVES The nature and purpose of each reserve within equity is as follows: Share premium account: this reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value: Capital redemption reserve: this reserve arises in relation to share capital cancellation: Other reserves: share capital, share premium account and capital redemption reserve are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date and the resultant exchange differences are included in other reserves: and Translation reserve: this reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Investment in own Ordinary Shares During the year, 1.5 million shares were purchased and placed into the Employee Share Ownership Trust at a cost of $2.5 million, and 1.5 million shares were also transferred from the Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy options exercised under the Spirent employee share plans.
At 31 December 2018, the Employee Share Ownership Trust held 0.6 million Ordinary Shares 2017 0.6 million Ordinary Shares to satisfy awards under various share incentive plans.
At 31 December 2018, the Spirent Sharesave Trust held 0.5 million Ordinary Shares 2017 0.5 million Ordinary Shares to satisfy awards made to United Kingdom based employees under an all employee share scheme.
The market value of own Ordinary Shares held in trust, being in total 1.1 million Ordinary Shares 2017 1.1 million Ordinary Shares, at 31 December 2018 was $1.7 million 2017 $1.5 million.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS Movements in share incentives over a two-year period ending on 31 December 2018 are shown below: 2005 Employee Spirent Long-Term 1 2 Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Number of Weighted Number of Weighted share average share average incentives exercise incentives exercise million price pence million price pence Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2016 6.7 53 3.9 Exercised Granted 2.9 Forfeited 3.2 50 0.3 Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2017 3.5 55 6.5 Exercised 1.7 45 0.4 Granted 2.7 Forfeited 1.0 47 0.5 Incentives outstanding at 31 December 2018 0.8 89 8.3 Incentives exercisable At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2018 0.8 89 Notes 1.
Figures for the 2005 Employee Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and Performance Shares in aggregate.
Figures for the Spirent Long-term Incentive Plan include restricted stock and Performance Shares in aggregate.
The weighted average share price at exercise date was 118 pence 2017 103 pence.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS CONTINUED The following information relates to outstanding share incentives at 31 December 2018: 2018 2017 Weighted Number Weighted Weighted Number Weighted average of share average average of share average Exercise exercise incentives remaining exercise incentives remaining Exercise period price price outstanding contractual price outstanding contractual Share plan as at 31 December pence pence million life years pence million life years 28.04.17-17.05.25 1.3 7.3 2005 Employee Incentive Plan 23.03.18-23.03.25 89 89 0.8 6.2 89 2.2 7.2 Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan 16.06.19-16.12.28 8.3 8.4 6.5 9.9 9.1 10.0 DISCRETIONARY PLANS Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, is available for selected employees, including executive directors, ona discretionary basis.
Under the LTIP, the Company is able to grant share options, including HMRC-approved options, share settled stock appreciation rights SARs, Performance Shares and Restricted Stock.
No price is payable on the grant of an award.
In normal circumstances, LTIP awards vest three years following the date of grant provided the relevant performance conditions have been met.
For Performance Share awards, performance conditions related to Total Shareholder Return TSR and the Companys earnings per share EPS.
For Restricted Stock, the performance conditions relate to the recipients continued employment with the Company.
Further information on the performance conditions for LTIP share incentives is set out in the Report on directors remuneration.
2005 Employee Incentive Plan EIP The EIP closed for new awards following the 2016 AGM and was replaced by the Spirent Long-term Incentive Plan.
The EIP, which was approved by shareholders and introduced in 2005, was available for selected employees, including executive directors, on a discretionary basis.
Under the EIP, the Company was able to grant share options, including HMRC-approved options, share settled stock appreciation rights SARs and Performance Shares.
No price was payable on the grant of an award.
In normal circumstances, EIP awards vest three years following the date of grant provided the relevant performance conditions havebeen met.
For share options and SARs, the performance conditions relate to the Companys earnings per share EPS.
ForPerformance Share awards made prior to 2011, performance conditions related to Total Shareholder Return TSR.
For awards made since 2011, performance conditions relate to the Companys EPS and TSR.
Further information on the performance conditions for EIP share incentives is set out in the Report on directors remuneration.
Options and SARs granted under the EIP expire on the tenth anniversary of their grant unless they have previously lapsed or been exercised.
ALL EMPLOYEE PLANS UK Employee Share Purchase Plan UK ESPP The UK ESPP, which is an HMRC-approved share incentive plan, was approved by shareholders in 2005 and 2015 and is available to allUK employees.
The UK ESPP offers four ways to provide Ordinary Shares to employees: free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares.
The UK ESPP operates in conjunction with a trust, which holds the shares on behalf of participants.
In November 2010, the Company commenced making invitations to all UK employees to acquire partnership shares on market using deductions from payroll.
152 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 32.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS CONTINUED US Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP The US ESPP was initially approved by shareholders in 2000, with amendments being approved by shareholders in 2005 and 2011.
The US ESPP enables the Company to invite all US employees to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company on market using deductions from payroll.
In November 2010, the Company commenced making six-monthly invitations to employees.
The US ESPP also enables the Company to grant eligible US employees the right to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company using theproceeds of a savings contract.
If such a grant were made, when joining the US ESPP, participants would enter into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of base salary subject to an individual limit of $1,000 per month.
No grants of this nature have been made since 2003.
Global All Employee Share Purchase Plan GAESPP The GAESPP was initially approved by shareholders in 2001 with amendments being approved by shareholders in 2005 and 2011.
TheGAESPP enables the Company to invite employees in countries other than the United States or United Kingdom to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company on market using deductions from payroll.
In September 2011, the first such invitation was made to all employees inCanada, Hong Kong, France and Germany and subsequent invitations have been made on a six-monthly basis since 2012.
The GAESPP can also be operated on similar terms to the US ESPP above, with participants entering into a 12 month contract to save up to 15 per cent of base salary subject to an individual limit.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT 2018 2017 $ million $ million 2005 Employee Incentive Plan 0.1 0.5 Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan 2.7 1.7 2.8 2.2 All schemes are equity-settled.
2.7 million share incentives were granted during 2018 2017 2.9 million.
The fair value of share incentives has been estimated as at thedate of grant using the Hull-White trinomial model.
The following table gives the assumptions made in arriving at the share-based payment charge and the fair value: 2018 2017 Weighted average share price pence 112.9 118.1 Weighted average exercise price pence Weighted average fair value pence 95.1 92.8 Expected volatility % 30.6 31.0 Option life years Performance Shares 3.0 3.0 Options and SARs 10.0 NA Sub-optimal exercise factor 1.5 1.5 Risk free rate % 0.88 1.11.2 Dividend yield % 3.0 3.5 The expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous two yearswhich management considers to be the period which is likely to be most representative of future volatility.
The risk free rate iscalculated by reference to UK government bonds.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2018 2017 $ million $ million Profit before tax 61.2 46.6 Adjustments for: Finance income 1.4 0.6 Finance costs 0.1 0.3 Intangible asset amortisation 4.3 7.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16.5 18.0 Loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Gain on divestment 2.4 2.6 Share-based payment 2.8 2.2 Changes in working capital Deferred income released received 2.5 5.1 Increase in receivables 11.0 2.3 Increase decrease in inventories 2.2 3.7 Decrease increase in payables 4.7 5.5 Increase in provisions 7.6 0.1 Defined benefit pension plan 6.7 6.1 Defined benefit pension plan re-measurement GMP equalisation 4.0 Deferred compensation plan 0.3 0.5 Cash flow from operations 65.9 77.7 35.
DIVESTMENTS There were no divestments in 2018.
The gain on divestments in 2018 of $2.4 million represents the repayment of a $2.0 million loan from the subsidiaries the Group divested of on 30 June 2017, together with the release of a $0.5 million provision relating to unsettled legal claims from a disposal the Group made in 2012.
The $2.0 million loan had previously been impaired.
The Group also incurred legal fees of $0.1 million relating to the divestments made in 2017.
The net cash inflow from divestments in 2018 was $1.8 million.
On 16 February 2017, the Group divested of certain assets and liabilities of Epitiro Group Limited Epitiro for consideration of $0.4million.
Epitiro was reported within the Lifecycle Service Assurance operating segment.
On 30 June 2017, the Group divested the entire issued share capital of its subsidiaries, Spirent Communications Israel Limited, its Developer Tools DT line of business, and Spirent Holdings Denmark ApS and its subsidiaries, its Device Intelligence DI line of business, to Dorfi Limited, an Israeli entity established by the former General Manager of the business units, for a total cash consideration of$1.
Both DI and DT were reported within the Connected Devices operating segment.
In 2017, DI and DT reported combined revenue of $5.9 million and made an adjusted operating profit and profit before tax of $1.4 million.
These divestments did not constitute discontinued operations under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
154 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 35.
DIVESTMENTS CONTINUED The gain on divestments during 2017 was as follows: DI DT Epitiro 2017 $ million $ million Total Gross consideration 0.4 0.4 Net liabilities assets at date of divestment 2.9 0.5 2.4 Provision against loan to divested subsidiaries 2.0 2.0 Expenses of sale 0.8 0.5 1.3 Foreign exchange adjustments 3.1 3.1 Net gain loss on divestments before and after tax 3.2 0.6 2.6 Accumulated foreign exchange gains of $3.1 million were recycled to profit or loss on divestment of DI and DT in 2017.
As part of the sale of DI and DT, Spirent made a $2.0 million interest bearing loan to the divested subsidiaries to fund working capital requirements.
This loan was fully provided for by the Group in 2017 and expensed in the calculation of the gain on divestments.
The net cash impact of divestments in 2017 was as follows: DI DT Epitiro 2017 $ million $ million Total Cash consideration 0.4 0.4 Loan to divested subsidiaries 2.0 2.0 Expenses of sale 0.7 0.4 1.1 Net cash impact from divestments in the year 2.7 2.7 The net liabilities assets divested during 2017 were as follows: DI DT Epitiro 2017 $ million $ million Total At date of divestment Intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Cash on deposit 0.1 0.1 Inventories 0.1 0.1 Trade and other receivables 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 6.0 6.0 Provisions 0.3 0.3 Net liabilities assets 2.9 0.5 2.4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: 2018 2017 $000 $000 Short-term employee benefits 3,842.1 2,629.4 Share-based payment 664.6 493.3 4,506.7 3,122.7 No director received compensation for loss of office 2017 $nil.
There were gains of $852,742 2017 no gains on the exercise of options by key management personnel in 2018.
For further details refer to the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 74 to 95.
TRANSITION TO IFRS 15 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 using the fully retrospective transition method, requiring restated comparatives.
This note presents the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on the Groups financial statements.
The cumulative effect of the adoption of IFRS 15 has resulted in an increase in net assets of $0.8 million as at 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 $0.8 million.
This reflects the capitalisation of incremental costs incurred to obtain a contract, being sales commissions previously expensed as incurred, net of the associated deferred tax impact.
The adoption of IFRS 15 has not impacted revenue previously reported.
156 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 37.
TRANSITION TO IFRS 15 CONTINUED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET RESTATEMENT UNDER IFRS 15 As reported Impact of Restated As reported Impact of Restated $ million Notes 1 Jan 2017 IFRS 15 1 Jan 2017 31 Dec 2017 IFRS 15 31 Dec 2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 169.8 169.8 163.6 163.6 Property, plant and equipment 47.3 47.3 42.3 42.3 Trade and other receivables 4.6 4.6 4.1 4.1 Assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract A 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Cash on deposit 0.1 0.1 Defined benefit pension plan surplus 0.9 0.9 1.2 1.2 Deferred tax asset 33.1 33.1 23.2 23.2 255.8 0.4 256.2 234.4 0.4 234.8 Current assets Inventories 27.4 27.4 23.6 23.6 Trade and other receivables 128.9 128.9 130.1 130.1 Assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract A 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Other financial assets 0.1 0.1 Current tax asset 0.4 0.4 1.0 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 96.1 96.1 128.4 128.4 252.8 0.6 253.4 283.2 0.6 283.8 Total assets 508.6 1.0 509.6 517.6 1.0 518.6 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables B 127.2 59.4 67.8 131.9 61.7 70.2 Deferred income B 59.4 59.4 61.7 61.7 Other financial liabilities 0.1 0.1 Current tax liability 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 Provisions 4.2 4.2 3.6 3.6 133.0 133.0 136.9 136.9 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables B 14.6 11.2 3.4 16.4 11.0 5.4 Deferred income B 11.2 11.2 11.0 11.0 Deferred tax liability C 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 Defined benefit pension plan deficit 16.7 16.7 7.7 7.7 Provisions 2.6 2.6 3.2 3.2 34.0 0.2 34.2 27.4 0.2 27.6 Total liabilities 167.0 0.2 167.2 164.3 0.2 164.5 Net assets 341.6 0.8 342.4 353.3 0.8 354.1 Capital and reserves Share capital 25.3 25.3 27.5 27.5 Share premium account 25.0 25.0 27.3 27.3 Capital redemption reserve 16.3 16.3 17.8 17.8 Other reserves 19.4 19.4 13.4 13.4 Translation reserve 10.3 10.3 11.3 11.3 Retained earnings A, C 245.3 0.8 246.1 256.0 0.8 256.8 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Company 341.6 0.8 342.4 353.3 0.8 354.1 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37.
TRANSITION TO IFRS 15 CONTINUED NOTES A.
Recognition and utilisation of assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract IFRS 15 specifies that the incremental costs of obtaining a contract are capitalised if the entity expects to recover them.
At 1 January 2017, the Group has capitalised sales commissions amounting to $1.0 million that were previously expensed as incurred.
These assets are amortised on a systematic basis through selling costs in the income statement consistent with how the related revenue is recognised.
At 31 December 2017, the assets capitalised also amounted to $1.0 million.
B. Reclassification of trade and other payables Deferred income has been reclassified from trade and other payables to its own line item in the balance sheet as required by IFRS 15, reflecting the materiality and nature of this balance in the context of the Groups business.
C. Deferred tax The recognition of assets recognised from costs to obtain a contract on the balance sheet from 1 January 2017 as stated above resulted in a deferred tax liability of $0.2 million.
There was an immaterial adjustment to deferred tax in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Consolidated income statement under IFRS 15 There is no material impact to the consolidated income statement on transition to IFRS 15.
Consolidated cash flow statement under IFRS 15 As a result of the adoption of IFRS 15, certain reclassifications are required in relation to the following cash flow movements between relevant balance sheet accounts.
There has been no change in the net cash generated from operations as a result of these reclassifications or restatement of these balance sheet accounts.
As identified in adjustment A, on transition to IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, the Group has recognised assets from costs to obtain a contract.
Movements in the operating cash flow note reflect the relevant movements in the assets, which have been included within the movement in receivables.
As identified in adjustment B, the Group has reclassified deferred income in the balance sheet.
This reclassification has not impacted the consolidated cash flow statement.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity restatement under IFRS 15 No reconciliation of the restated consolidated statement of changes in equity is presented, as the only changes for the relevant period are presented as follows: Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 1 January 2017: recognition of the restated retained earnings figure as presented in the restated consolidated balance sheet at this date.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 31 December 2017: recognition of the restated retained earnings figure as presented in the restated consolidated balance sheet at this date.
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS UNDER IFRS 15 There is no material impact to alternative performance measures or key performance indicators on transition to IFRS 15.
158 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018
