STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 4G Fourth Generation Fourth generation of mobile communications that delivers data rates of tens to hundreds of megabits persecond.
5G Fifth Generation The next major phase of mobile telecommunications standards beyond the current 4G IMT-Advanced standards.
5G New Radio 5G NR 5G NR is a new air interface being developed for 5G.
An air interface is the radio frequency portion of thecircuit between the mobile device and the active base station.
The active base station can change asthe user is on the move, with each changeover known as a handoff.
Cloud A variety of computing concepts that involve a large number of computers connected through a real-time communication network such as the internet.
Often used in reference to network-based services served up by virtual hardware, simulated by software running on one or more physical machines.
Code Division Multiple A digital cellular technology standard which allows numerous signals to occupy a single transmission Access CDMA channel, thus increasing network capacity: used in 2G and 3G radio communications.
Data Center A centralised location where computing resources critical to an organisation are maintained in a highly controlled environment.
Enhanced 911 E911 A support for wireless phone users to dial 911 to request help in an emergency that allows the location of the user to be known to the call receiver.
Enhanced Multimedia eMBMS offers LTE service providers an effective way to lower cost per bit when delivering the same Broadcast Multicast content simultaneously to multiple end users.
Service eMBMS Ethernet A family of networking technologies originally developed for local area networks, which migrated to metro area networks and eventually became the dominant standard in wireline networks worldwide.
Evolution-Data Optimised A telecommunications standard for the wireless transmission of data through radio signals, typically EV-DO or EVDO forbroadband internet access.
EV-DO is an evolution of the CDMA2000 IS-2000 standard that supportshigh data rates and can be deployed alongside a wireless carriers voice services.
Frequency division A technique where separate frequency bands are used at the transmitter and receiver side.
duplex FDD Global Navigation The standard generic term for satellite navigation systems that provide autonomous geo-spatial Satellite Systems GNSS positioning with global coverage.
GNSS allows users receivers to determine their location to within a few metres by employing a triangulation technique that uses information from multiple satellites.
Global Positioning A global navigation satellite system operated by the United States government for determining System GPS a users location and height at any point on the earths surface.
A receiver uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes.
Internet of Things IoT A network of physical objects or things embedded with electronics, software, sensors and connectivity to enable data exchange with the manufacturer, operator and or other connected devices.
Each thing is uniquely identifiable through its embedded computing system but is able to interoperate within existing internet infrastructure.
Internet Protocol IP The primary network protocol used on the internet and on other network devices to facilitate and control the flow of data.
Internet A standardised next-generation architecture for telecoms operators who want to provide mobile and Protocol Multimedia fixed multimedia services.
Subsystem IMS Jamming The intentional emission of radio frequency signals to interfere with the operation of GNSS receiver by saturating it with noise or false information.
Lab-as-a-Service LaaS A cloud-based build and deploy environment to manage lab resources required by developers, testers, pre and post-sales support teams and others on an on-demand basis.
LaaS is proven to reduce CapEx and increase lab user efficiency.
Long-Term Evolution LTE An advanced wireless data communications technology standard sometimes called 4G which is an evolution of 3G UMTS standards.
In addition to its wireless interface specification, LTE uses a simplified flat IP-based network architecture.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 185 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY Multiple-Input MultipleA wireless technology that employs multiple radio antennas on both the transmitter and receiver to Output MIMO improve the data transmission speeds and capacity of wireless networks.
Network Functions An initiative to provide a network production environment which lowers cost, raises efficiency Virtualisation NFV andincreases agility by hosting network functions previously carried out by proprietary, dedicated hardware on virtual machines running on industry-standard commodity hardware.
Observed Time Difference A positioning feature in which user equipment measures the time difference between some specific of Arrival OTDOA signals from several base stations and reports these time differences to a specific device in the network.
Radio Frequency RF A technology used for wireless broadcasting and or communications that uses radio waves within therange over which they may be transmitted, from about 3 kilohertz to about 300,000 megahertz.
Software-Defined An approach to networking in which control is decoupled from hardware and given to a software Network SDN application called a controller.
Spoofing An attempt to deceive a GNSS receivers estimate of its position or time by broadcasting counterfeit GNSS signals, structured to resemble a set of normal GNSS signals, or by rebroadcasting genuine signals captured elsewhere or at a different time.
Time Division TDD refers to duplex communication links where uplink is separated from downlink by the allocation of Duplex TDD different time slots in the same frequency band.
Universal Mobile The most common 3G wireless technology globally, which uses wideband code division multiple access on Telecommunications its underlying air interface and offers support for data transfer rates from hundreds of kilobits per second to System UMTS tens of megabits per second.
Virtualisation Technologies designed to provide a layer of abstraction from the physical characteristics of computing resources to simplify the way in which other systems, applications or end users interact with those resources.
Voice over LTE VoLTE A standards-based scheme adopted by the GSMA, the cellular industrys association, to provide voice service over data-only LTE networks.
VoLTEs use of an IP Media Subsystem enables voice to be offered as part of a rich communications solution, integrated with services such as messaging, live video sharing and file transfer.
Voice over Wi-Fi VoWi-Fi Transmission of IP-based voice communication VoIP over a Wi-Fi network.
Wireless Local Area A wireless distribution method for two or more devices that use high-frequency radio waves and often Network WLAN includes an access point to the internet.
A WLAN allows users to move around the coverage area, often ahome or small office, while maintaining a network connection.
186 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018
