STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on directors remuneration, the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent Company.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles including FRS 101 and applicable law.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by law and IFRS to present fairly for each financial period the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: state for the parent Company financial statements whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company will continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors report, a directors remuneration report and a statement on corporate governance that comply with the law and those regulations.
They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of, and have been approved by, the Directors.
Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board Paula Bell Chief Financial Officer 7 March 2019 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 101
