NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES These financial statements have been prepared in compliance with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest m. These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
A summary of the material accounting policies adopted are described below.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost basis except for the modification to a fair value basis for certain financial instruments as specified in the accounting policies below.
These financial statements for the period ended 29 April 2018 are prepared in accordance with FRS 102, The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The Companys profit after taxation for the 52 week period ended 29 April 2018 was 235.7m 2017: 12.2m.
As permitted by FRS 102 the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to financial instruments, presentation of a cash flow statement, share-based payments, the aggregate remuneration of key management personnel and related party transactions with other wholly-owned members of the Group.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the group accounts of Sports Direct International plc.
INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
The company has elected to designate listed investments as available-for-sale financial assets as at the date of transition.
Under previous UK GAAP listed investments were held at cost less impairment.
The company has elected to follow the requirements of IAS 39, as permitted by FRS 102 Section 12, and the fair value from one period to another being shown within the statement of other comprehensive income.
Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
When the security is disposed of, fiderecognised or is determined to be impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the profit and loss account as a reclassification adjustment within other income.
Equity investments are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment which includes a significant or prolonged decline in value.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs less provision for impairment.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
208 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share based awards.
The Group has fide facto control over the special purpose entity.
The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within own share-reserve in equity.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is provided for on a full provision basis on all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No timing differences are recognised in respect of gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets.
A deferred tax asset is not recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefit in the future is more unlikely than not.
Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the entitys functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
DIVIDENDS Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised as a liability in the Companys Financial Statements, and as a deduction from equity, in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of the Companys shareholders, the dividends are only declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company, with the exception of those accounted for via merger relief available under Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
INCOME FROM GROUP UNDERTAKINGS Income from Group undertakings is recognised when qualifying consideration is received from the Group undertaking.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 102 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with wholly-owned subsidiaries which form part of the Group.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The fair value of the share options on the date of the grant is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the share option, based on the number of options which are expected to become exercisable.
A corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
At each balance sheet date the company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable and recognises the impact of any revision of original estimates in the profit and loss account.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 209
