NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
A share-based payment charge of nil was recognised for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 based on the Directors best estimate of the number of shares that will vest.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS In the application of the companys accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods.
The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are outlined below.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CALCULATION OF SHARE SCHEME CHARGE A share based payment charge is recognised in respect of share awards based on the Directors best estimate of the number of shares that will vest.
The charge is calculated based on the fair value at the grant date, which is deemed to be the date on which the entity and counterparty reached a shared understanding of the scheme.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment which includes a significant or prolonged decline in value.
Judgement is exercised in determining whether either or both of these factors are present.
ASSUMPTIONS RELATING TO TAX Management estimation is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets or liabilities that can be recognised, based upon likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies.
INVESTMENTS 29 April 2018 30 April 2017 m m Investments in subsidiaries 1,124.2 1,124.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 245.9 55.7 The fair value of the available-for-sale investments is based on bid quoted market prices at the balance sheet date or where market prices are not available, at managements best estimate.
Available-for-sale investments include various holdings including a 29.9% stake in Findel plc, a 29.7% stake in Debenhams plc, a 27.04% stake in French Connection Group plc, a 25.44% stake in GAME Digital plc and an 18.92% stake in Goals Soccer Centres plc.
The Company is the principal holding company of the Group.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out in note 41 of the Group Financial Statements.
