NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES These financial statements have been prepared in compliance with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest m. These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
A summary of the material accounting policies adopted are described below.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost basis except for the modification to a fair value basis for certain financial instruments as specified in the accounting policies below.
These financial statements for the period ended 29 April 2018 are prepared in accordance with FRS 102, The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The Companys profit after taxation for the 52 week period ended 29 April 2018 was 235.7m 2017: 12.2m.
As permitted by FRS 102 the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to financial instruments, presentation of a cash flow statement, share-based payments, the aggregate remuneration of key management personnel and related party transactions with other wholly-owned members of the Group.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the group accounts of Sports Direct International plc.
INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
The company has elected to designate listed investments as available-for-sale financial assets as at the date of transition.
Under previous UK GAAP listed investments were held at cost less impairment.
The company has elected to follow the requirements of IAS 39, as permitted by FRS 102 Section 12, and the fair value from one period to another being shown within the statement of other comprehensive income.
Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
When the security is disposed of, fiderecognised or is determined to be impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the profit and loss account as a reclassification adjustment within other income.
Equity investments are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment which includes a significant or prolonged decline in value.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs less provision for impairment.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
