The options available upon adoption of IFRS 16 are modified retrospective and full retrospective.
The Group plans to use the modified retrospective approach which will result in in an adjustment to the opening balance of Retained earnings, with no restatement of comparatives.
The full financial impact of the standard has not yet been completed, as a number of unknown factors will impact the calculation of the liability such as discount rates, whether the practical expedients available on transition will be used and the composition of the property portfolio is likely to be materially different at the time of adoption.
For current operating lease information see note 34.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The critical accounting estimates and judgements made by the Group regarding the future or other key sources of estimation, uncertainty and judgement that may have a significant risk of giving rise to a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are: PROVISION FOR OBSOLETE, SLOW MOVING OR DEFECTIVE INVENTORIES The Directors have applied their knowledge and experience of the retail industry in determining the level and rates of provisioning required in calculating the appropriate inventory carrying values.
Specific estimates and judgements applied in relation to assessing the level of inventory provisions required are considered in relation to the following areas: 1.
Seasonal inventory lines specifically seasons that have now finished 3.
Third party versus own brand inventory 4.
Sports Retail or Premium Lifestyle 6.
Increased cost of inventory and lower margins with the devaluation of the pound Estimates are then applied to the various categories of inventory to calculate an appropriate level of provision.
These estimates are formed using a combination of factors including historical experience, managements knowledge of the industry, group discounting and sales pricing protocols, and the overall assessment made by management of the risks in relation to inventory.
Management use a number of internally generated reports to monitor and continually re-assess the adequacy and accuracy of the provisions made.
The additional cost of repricing inventory and handling charges are considered in arriving at the appropriate percentage provision.
The Group revised its estimation methodology in the period in relation to inventory provisioning, and now also includes Loaded-on-Board inventory in the overall assessment of the provision, as it considers this inventory to also have some risk of obsolescence due to the factors outlined above.
The testing performed to check that the assumptions applied remain valid by management produces a range of outcomes and the provision is set within this range.
A 1% change in the total provision would impact underlying EBITDA by approx.
PROPERTY RELATED PROVISIONS Property related estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, external advice and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Where an onerous lease has been identified, the assets dedicated to that store are also reviewed for impairment.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 157 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued Specific assumptions which involve the use of estimates to determine the appropriate level of provision include: 1.
Forecast sales in stores, reflecting historic and expected future performance 2.
Forecast wages and direct store cost inflation 3.
The impact to gross margins due to currency fluctuations 4.
Impact of Elevation of Sports Retail strategy in the UK has been considered in determining future forecast individual store performance 5.
Planned store closures, relocations and re-brandings 6.
Lease obligations calculated to the end of the lease or where applicable break clause, or earlier estimate of expected exit date where this can be reliably estimated Further information on the basis of the estimation of provisioning for dilapidations and onerous lease contracts is detailed in the provisions accounting policy and note 28.
OTHER PROVISIONS Provisions are made for items where the Group has identified a present legal or constructive obligation arising as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Other provisions relate to managements best estimates of provisions required for restructuring, employment, commercial, legal and regulatory claims and ongoing non-UK tax enquiries.
Where applicable these are inclusive of any estimated penalties, interest and legal costs, and are net of any associated recoverable amounts.
OTHER RECEIVABLES AND AMOUNTS OWED BY RELATED PARTIES Other receivables and amounts owed by related parties are stated net of provision for any impairment.
Management have applied estimates in assessing the recoverability of working capital and loan advances made to investee companies.
Matters considered include the relevant financial strength of the underlying investee company to repay the loans, the repayment period and underlying terms of the monies advanced, forecast performance of the underlying borrower, and where relevant, the Groups intentions for the companies to which monies have been advanced.
DETERMINING RELATED PARTY RELATIONSHIPS Management determines whether a related party relationship exists by assessing the nature of the relationship by reference to the requirements of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
This is in order to determine whether significant influence exists as a result of control, shared directors or parent companies, or close family relationships.
The level at which one party may be expected to influence the other is also considered for transactions involving close family relationships.
Where the Group are aware that relationships exist that they do not consider to meet the definition of related parties, but believe that the arrangements will be of interest to the users of the accounts, these are disclosed under Commercial Arrangements.
See note 38 for more details.
CONTROL AND SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER CERTAIN ENTITIES Under IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures if an entity holds 20% or more of the voting power of the investee, it is presumed that the entity has significant influence, unless it can clearly demonstrate that this is not the case.
The Group holds greater than 20% of the voting rights of Findel Plc, Debenhams Plc, French Connection Group PLC and GAME Digital Plc, however management consider that the Group does not have significant influence over these entities for combinations of the following reasons: The Group does not have any representation on the board of directors of the investee other than an SDI representative having an observer role on the board of Findel Plc.
Management have reviewed the terms of the observer arrangement and have concluded that this does not give them the right to participate in or influence the financial or operating decisions of Findel plc.
Findel can terminate this arrangement at any time, and can determine which parts of the Board meetings the representative can be present at and what information they are given access to: 158 There is no participation in decision making and strategic processes, including participation in decisions about dividends or other distributions: There have been no material transactions between the entity and its investee companies with regards to the collaboration and working capital agreements entered into with GAME Digital plc in FY18 which have been evaluated and are not considered to represent material transactions : There has been no interchange of managerial personnel: No non-public essential technical management information is provided to the investee In assessing the level of control that management have over certain entities, management will consider the various aspects that allow management to influence decision making.
This includes the level of share ownership, board membership, the level of investment and funding and the ability of the Group to influence operational and strategic decisions and effect its returns through the exercise of such influence.
CASH FLOW HEDGING Under IAS 39 in order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting, forecast transactions primarily Euro denominated sales and US dollar denominated purchases must be considered to be highly probable.
The hedge must be expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit or loss.
Management have reviewed the detailed forecasts and growth assumptions within them, and are satisfied that forecasts in which the cash flow hedge accounting has been based meet the criteria per IAS 39 as being highly probable forecast transactions.
Should the forecast levels not pass the highly probable test, any cumulative fair value gains and losses in relation to either the entire or the ineffective portion of the hedged instrument would be taken to the Income Statement.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment which includes a significant or prolonged decline in value.
Judgement is exercised in determining whether either or both of these factors are present.
DEFINING OPERATING SEGMENTS Management determines its operating segments with reference to the Chief Operational Decision Makers process for making key decisions over allocation of resources to the segment and in assessing a segments performance.
This is based on: The nature of the operation type and products sold The type of class of customer targeted Product distribution methods Similar operations are amalgamated into operating segments for the purposes of segmental reporting.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 159
