DIRECTORS' REPORT The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 29 April 2018.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The Chief Executives Report and Business Review on pages 60 to 69 provides a detailed review of the Groups current activities and potential future developments together with factors likely to affect future development, performance and conditions.
There is also a table of the principal risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group on pages 87 to 93.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 70 to 76.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 77 to 86 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the environment, the Groups workforce, and on social and community issues.
The principal activities of the Group during the period were: retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment, lifestyle and luxury apparel: wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment, lifestyle and luxury apparel under Group-owned or licensed brands: and licensing of Group Brands.
Further information on the Groups principal activities is set out in the front of this document and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on pages 60 to 69.
RESULTS FOR THE PERIOD AND DIVIDENDS Revenue for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 was 3,359.5m and Profit before tax was 77.5m compared with 3,245.3m and 281.6m in the prior period.
The trading results for the period and the Groups financial position as at the end of the year are shown in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed further in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 60 to 69 and 70 to 76 respectively.
The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY18.
The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial flexibility, facilitating future investments and other growth opportunities.
The payment of dividends remains under review.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL As at 18 July 2018, there are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid, of which 103,633,049 were held in treasury.
As at the period end there were 103,633,049 ordinary shares held in treasury.
Further information regarding the Groups issued share capital can be found on pages 177 to 178 of the Financial Statements.
Details of our Share Schemes are also set out on pages 177 to 178.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are governed both by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Group up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,652,965.20 being approximately one third of the then issued share capital for the period expiring at 12 September 2018, the date of the 2018 AGM.
96 In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the Company was also granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a nominal amount of 35,305,930.20 in connection with a rights issue.
An authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of 2,647,944.80 being approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did not apply, was also approved.
In addition, the Directors were granted a further authority to allot up to a maximum nominal value of 2,647,944.80 being approximately 5% of the then issued capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did not apply when such allotment was for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the power is used within six months of the original transaction a transaction which the Board determined to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles on disapplying Pre-emption Rights.
The authorities expire at the close of the next AGM of the Company, but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after the AGM, and at that meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
The Group was authorised to make market purchase of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company of up to a maximum aggregate number of 79,385,385 representing 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2017 AGM.
The above authority expires at the close of the next AGM of the Company.
During the period to 29 April 2018 the Company has purchased 37,105,027 ordinary shares at a cost of 113,846,000 excluding purchasing costs and representing 5.8% of the issued share capital.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury by the Company during the period was 103,633,049 representing 16.2% of the issued share capital.
No shares have been disposed of by the Company.
As at 18 July 2018 the Company has not purchased any additional ordinary shares and no shares have been disposed of by the Company to this date.
SHAREHOLDERS No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
As a controlling shareholder Mike Ashley has entered into a written and legally binding Relationship Agreement with the Company.
This agreement ensures that the controlling shareholder complies with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under the terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company, he will: conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis: exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company being managed in accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company: and other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in any business which sells sports apparel and equipment, subject to certain rights, after notification to the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business concerned, and certain other limited exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the Non-Executive Directors: and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of the Company.
The Company has complied with this Agreements independence provisions during the period and, as far as the Company is aware, the controlling shareholder and his associates have also complied with them.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 97
