RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group has taken advantage of the exemptions contained within IAS 24 - Related Party Disclosures from the requirement to disclose transactions between Group companies as these have been eliminated on consolidation.
The Group entered into the following material transactions with related parties: 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018: Relationship Sales Purchases Trade Trade m m and other and other receivables payables m m RELATED PARTY Brasher Leisure Limited Subsidiary acq.
In year 5.3 0.2 - - 1 Four Holdings Limited Associate 1.6 16.8 68.9 0.5 Lovells Sports Ltd Subsidiary acq.
In year 0.6 0.2 - - 2 3 Mike Ashley Director 2.1 - - - Mash Holdings Limited Parent company - - 0.5 - NDS EHF Associate 1.5 - - - Rangers Retail Limited Associate 0.3 0.2 0.8 0.2 Newcastle United Football Club & St James Holdings Connected persons 1.2 0.5 0.1 - Limited 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017: Relationship Sales Purchases Trade Trade m m and other and other receivables payables m m RELATED PARTY Brasher Leisure Limited Associate 15.6 0.8 6.4 0.1 1 Four Holdings Limited Associate 0.2 11.9 32.9 - 2 3 Mike Ashley Director 0.7 - 0.3 - Mash Holdings Limited Parent company - - 0.1 - NDS EHF Associate 2.5 - - - Rangers Retail Limited Associate 1.8 1.5 0.2 0.1 Newcastle United Football Club & St James Holdings Connected persons 1.1 0.4 1.0 0.3 Limited 1 The outstanding balance with Four Holdings reflects the funding related to Agent Provocateur.
The purchases 2017: restated in the period relate to inventory.
Management consider that the underlying results of Four Holdings supports the recoverability of the receivables balance.
The results of Four Holdings Limited do not meet the thresholds requiring more detailed disclosures under IFRS 12.
2 Use of the company jet and helicopter are charged at commercial rates.
3 The Group had a 6.0m liability as at 30 April 2017 in respect of a disputed historic claim.
This was settled by the Group during the period and the Group was subsequently reimbursed by Mike Ashley.
As at the prior year end the Group anticipated settling this liability, and as such no related party disclosure was given in the 2017 financial statements.
Subsequent clarification of the matter resulted in agreement that the liability rested with Mike Ashley and therefore it was settled personally.
The release of the prior year provision has been included within current year administrative expenses.
Interest accrued related to the claim of 3.0m was settled by the Group.
The Group has agreements with Rangers Retail Limited and Newcastle United Football Club, amongst other football clubs, whereby the Group provides procurement and warehousing services on behalf of the club.
Store sales are received directly by the entities, for web sales a service fee is charged by the entities to the Group and Sales disclosed above relate solely to goods bought from the Group.
The agreement with Rangers Retail Limited ceased on 20 June 2017.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 191 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued An agreement has been entered into with Double Take Limited, a company owned by Mash Holdings Limited in which Matilda Ashley, Mike Ashleys daughter, is a director.
Under the agreement, Double Take licences the Group the exclusive rights to the cosmetic brand SPORT FX.
No royalties or other fees are payable to Double Take for these rights until September 2019 at the earliest, when this fee arrangement will be reviewed on a going forwards basis, no provision is required in the financial statements.
It should be noted that the Group rather than Double Take owns the rights to SPORT FX for clothing, footwear and sports equipment.
The Group holds greater than 20% of the voting rights of Findel plc, Debenhams plc, French Connection Group plc and GAME Digital plc.
Findel plc, French Connection Group plc and GAME Digital plc have disclosed transactions with SDI as a related party within their most recent Financial Statements.
Transactions between Findel plc and the Group related to normal commercial trading arrangements and are not considered material to the results of the Group.
The collaboration agreement and working capital facility provided to GAME Digital plc has been discussed on page 73 of the annual report, the directors do not consider that this represents a material transaction.
The Group does not consider it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entities and so management do not consider the Group to be able to exert significant influence over these entities as per IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
All related party transactions were undertaken on an arms-length basis.
KEY MANAGEMENT, EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 29 April 2018 30 April 2017 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 1.1 1.4 Share-based payments - 0.7 Total 1.1 2.1 MM Prop Consultancy Ltd, a company owned and controlled by Michael Murray domestic partner of Anna Ashley, daughter of Mike Ashley, continues to provide property consultancy services to the Group.
MM Prop Consultancy Ltd is primarily tasked with finding and negotiating the acquisition of new sites in the UK, Europe and rest of the world for both our larger format stores and our combined retail and gym units but it also provides advice to the Companys inhouse property team in relation to existing sites in the UK, Europe and rest of the world.
MM Prop Consultancy Ltd fees are linked directly to value creation which is determined by the Company's nonexecutive directors who independently review performance bi-annually with a view to determining, at their absolute and sole discretion, the quantum of the percentage payable.
Under the terms of the agreement with MM Prop Consultancy Ltd no fees are payable until the earliest of 30 September 2018 so that the Companys independent nonexecutive directors have a sufficient amount of time to assess performance.
During the period, independent valuations were collated as an initial stage in confirming the value created through disposals and properties still held by MM Prop Consultancy Limited.
The Groups non-executive directors agreed 25% of the final agreed value created would be paid to MM Prop Consultancy Ltd based on these independent valuations of selected sites subject to the agreement.
The value created had not been determined and approved by the nonexecutive directors as at period end or at the date of signing this Annual Report and accounts.
The freehold acquisition program is a cornerstone of the elevation strategy and has proven to be extraordinarily successful.
With a strong ongoing pipeline, and with original expectations exceeded, Michael Murray has waived a portion of his fee and settled on 20% of the final agreed value created.
Based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets we have provided for the most reliable estimate of the amount expected to be paid to MM Prop Consultancy Ltd being 5.0m to the end of FY18.
