NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups current activities result in the following financial risks and set out below are managements responses to those risks in order to minimise any resulting adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: a. Transactional exposure from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the income statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is shown in note 29. b. Transactional exposure from the sale of goods, where those sales are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the selling company.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is shown in note 29. c. Net investment exposure, from the fair value of net investments outside the UK.
The Group hedges its international investments via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies.
d. Loans to non-UK subsidiaries.
These are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies, which are not formally designated as hedges, as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
e. Exposures in respect of written options to sell Euros or buy USD as explained in the Financial Review.
These are not hedged and movements in fair value could significantly impact the Income Statement in future periods.
INTEREST RATE RISK The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does not currently use interest rate financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate movements.
The Group regularly monitors and reacts accordingly to any exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and the impact on its monetary assets and liabilities.
CREDIT RISK The Directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
At each balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative instruments are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board.
LIQUIDITY RISK The availability of adequate cash resources is managed by the Group through utilisation of its revolving credit facilities together with equity and retained profits thereby achieving continuity of funding and short-term flexibility.
PRICE RISK The Group is exposed to price risk in respect of its available-for-sale financial assets in relation to listed company shares.
