NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated Financial Statements of Sports Direct International plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRSIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include fair valuation of certain financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The period ended 29 April 2017 financial statements have been restated following a review by management into the recognition of an element of Loaded-on-Board inventory.
In 2017 an element of Loaded-on-Board inventory was incorrectly classified within other debtors instead of inventory.
A prior period adjustment has been made to correct the prior period balance sheet resulting in an increase to inventory of 45.0m and a decrease to other debtors of 45.0m.
There has been no impact to basic or diluted earnings per share, profit for the period, total comprehensive income or net assets.
The funds used for the Bob's and Eastern Mountain Sports acquisition were transferred to escrow during FY17 and were reported in Receivables in the prior year.
The acquisition completed on 18 May 2017 and the prior year has therefore been restated to recognise the transfer on the face of the Cash Flow, therefore movment in Receivables has been restated.
CONSOLIDATION The consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those entities that the Group is considered to have control over.
It will be considered to have control when it has power over the entity, is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from the entity and has the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the amount of the entitys returns.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of consideration transferred below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Costs incurred relating to acquisitions are expensed to the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
ASSOCIATES Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups share of the results of associates is included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates and joint ventures, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in associates include acquired goodwill.
