NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated Financial Statements of Sports Direct International plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRSIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include fair valuation of certain financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The period ended 29 April 2017 financial statements have been restated following a review by management into the recognition of an element of Loaded-on-Board inventory.
In 2017 an element of Loaded-on-Board inventory was incorrectly classified within other debtors instead of inventory.
A prior period adjustment has been made to correct the prior period balance sheet resulting in an increase to inventory of 45.0m and a decrease to other debtors of 45.0m.
There has been no impact to basic or diluted earnings per share, profit for the period, total comprehensive income or net assets.
The funds used for the Bob's and Eastern Mountain Sports acquisition were transferred to escrow during FY17 and were reported in Receivables in the prior year.
The acquisition completed on 18 May 2017 and the prior year has therefore been restated to recognise the transfer on the face of the Cash Flow, therefore movment in Receivables has been restated.
CONSOLIDATION The consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those entities that the Group is considered to have control over.
It will be considered to have control when it has power over the entity, is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from the entity and has the ability to use its power over the entity to affect the amount of the entitys returns.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of consideration transferred below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Costs incurred relating to acquisitions are expensed to the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
ASSOCIATES Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Groups share of the results of associates is included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates and joint ventures, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in associates include acquired goodwill.
148 If the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
INVESTMENTS Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income except for interest and dividend income, impairment losses and foreign exchange losses on monetary assets, which are recognised in the income statement.
When the security is disposed of, fide-recognised or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment within other comprehensive income.
ACQUISITIONS For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or loss, if any, in the income statement as appropriate.
GOODWILL Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has suffered an impairment loss.
The need for impairment is tested by comparing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to the carrying value.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is acquired the carrying value of the non-controlling interests in the balance sheet is eliminated.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Brands, trademarks and licences that are internally generated are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trademarks and licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The fair value of brands, trademarks and licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed cost to the Group.
Expenditure on advertising and promotional activities is recognised as an expense as incurred.
No amortisation is charged on those brands, trademarks or perpetual renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes that the value of these brands and trademarks can be maintained indefinitely.
The Group carries out an impairment review of indefinite life intangibles, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those intangibles have suffered an impairment loss.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible asset as part of the CGU with the recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Amortisation is provided on other brands, trademarks and licences with a definite life on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives of between 5 to 15 years and is accounted for within the selling, distribution and administrative expenses category within the income statement.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 149 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of these items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the costs can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including repairs and maintenance costs, are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance basis or straight-line basis, whichever is deemed by the directors to be more appropriate, to allocate cost less assessed residual value, other than assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings - between 4% and 10% per annum - straight line Leasehold improvements - 20% or over the term of the lease, whichever is shortest - straight line Plant and equipment - between 20% and 33% per annum - straight line The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds, net of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment where the carrying amount is recovered principally through a sales transaction and where a sale is considered to be highly probable is stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Investment properties, which are defined as property held for rental income or capital appreciation, are initially measured at cost being purchase price and directly attributable expenditure.
Subsequently investment properties are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Investment properties are depreciated over between 10 and 25 years other than the land element which is not depreciated.
Fair values of the investment properties are disclosed.
IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH AN INDEFINITE LIFE At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset in its current condition is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
With respect to property, plant and equipment, each store is considered to be a CGU and where onerous leases are noted the assets of each individual store are individually assessed for impairment.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the original historic cost and then as an expense.
150 Impairment losses recognised for CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are credited initially to the carrying amount of goodwill.
Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the CGU.
Equity investments are impaired when there is objective evidence of impairment which includes a significant or prolonged decline in value.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset CGU excluding goodwill, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset CGU in prior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and value added taxes.
In the case of goods sold through retail stores, revenue is recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer, less provision for returns.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
In the case of goods sold on the internet, revenue is recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which is the point of delivery to the customer.
Transactions are settled by credit card or payment card.
Provisions are made for internet credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
In the case of goods sold to other businesses via wholesale channels, revenue is recognised when the substantial risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
In the case of income generated from trademarks and licences, revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements or on a transactional basis when revenue is linked to sale or purchase volumes.
In the case of gym membership fees that are received in advance, revenue is deferred and recognised in the period in which the services are provided.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The Group presents exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those significant items of income and expense which, because of their size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and assess trends in financial performance more readily.
INTEREST INCOME Interest income is reported on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The presentational currency of the Group is sterling.
The functional currency of the Company is also sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences of the Company arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 151 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations which have a functional currency other than sterling are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these subsidiary undertakings are translated at average rates applicable in the period.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and documented in a separate component of equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences that have been recognised as a separate component of equity are reclassified from equity to the income statement when the disposal is recognised.
In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the cash flow hedging accounting policy on pages 154 to 155.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes the purchase price of the manufactured products, materials, direct labour, transport costs and a proportion of applicable overheads.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average cost method.
Net realisable value is based on the estimated selling price less all estimated selling costs.
The Company receives trade discounts and rebates from suppliers based upon the volume of orders placed in a given time window.
Where there is sufficient certainty that a discount or rebate will be received in the future that relates to historic purchases this is reflected in the cost of inventories.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost under the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
TAXATION Tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
152 Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with shares in subsidiaries is not provided if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future.
In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Changes in current and deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are recorded in other comprehensive income or charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged to other comprehensive income or credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
BORROWINGS AND BORROWING COSTS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Borrowing costs, being interest and other costs incurred in connection with the servicing of borrowings, are recognised as an expense when incurred.
PROVISIONS A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group provides for its legal responsibility for dilapidation costs following advice from chartered surveyors and previous experience of exit costs.
The estimated cost of fulfilling the leasehold dilapidations obligations is discounted to present value and analysed between non-capital and capital components.
The capital element is depreciated over the life of the asset.
The non-capital element is taken to the income statement in the first year of the lease where the cost it represents is of no lasting benefit to the Group or its landlord.
Wear and tear costs are expensed to the income statement.
Provisions for onerous lease contracts are recognised when the Group believes the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Other provisions include managements best estimate of restructuring, employment related costs, legal costs and other claims.
The Group provides for bad debts that arise on outstanding receivables balances.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 153 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued LEASES Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The asset subject to the finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life and the lease term.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included as a liability.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does not have substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Incentives provided by the lessor are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rental payments, above standard payments, are conditional on the Groups operating performance derived from the lease item, e. g. turnover levels.
These are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations relates to purchases and sales made in foreign currencies, principally the US Dollar and Euro.
The Groups policy is to substantially reduce the risk associated with purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies by using forward fixed rate currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign currency cash flows.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on re-measurement are immediately recognised in the income statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting date to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Written option contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting and fair value movements are recognised directly in the income statement.
CASH FLOW HEDGING Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction.
The effective element of any gain or loss from re-measuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the profit or loss.
The classification of the effective portion when recognised in the income statement is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
154 Any element of the re-measurement of the derivative instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance income or costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs upon which the cumulative gain is reclassified from Other Comprehensive Income to the Income Statement.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment.
TREASURY SHARES The purchase price of the Groups own shares that it acquires is recognised as Treasury shares within equity.
When shares are transferred out of treasury the difference between the market value and the average purchase price of shares sold out of treasury is transferred to retained earnings.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
The Group has fide-facto control over the special purpose entity.
This Trust is fully consolidated within the accounts.
The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within Own Share reserve in equity.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Directors and employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is expensed to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with the corresponding credit going to equity.
Non-market vesting conditions are not taken into account in determining grant date fair value.
Instead, they are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments to vest.
Fair value is based on the market share price on the grant date.
The expected staff numbers used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the services received and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability.
Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the Income Statement for the period.
The credit for the share based payment charge does not equal the charge per the income statement as it excludes amounts recognised in the balance sheet in relation to the expected national insurance contributions for the shares.
EQUITY INSTRUMENTS An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
DIVIDENDS Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements and as a deduction from equity in the period in which the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of shareholders, the dividends are regarded as declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 155 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 Continued MATERIALITY In preparing the Financial Statements, the Board considers both quantitative and qualitative factors in forming its judgements, and related disclosures, and are mindful of the need to best serve the interests of its stakeholders and to avoid unnecessary clutter borne of the disclosure of immaterial items.
In making this assessment the Board considers the nature of each item, as well as its size, in assessing whether any disclosure omissions or misstatements could influence the decisions of users of the Financial Statements.
The Board has applied a typical materiality threshold of 5% of the underlying EBITDA, the Groups primary profit measure, in order to calculate materiality levels.
For the Financial period ended 29 April 2018, the current period EBITDA of 306.1m gives a materiality level for FY18 of 15.3m.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS STANDARDS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial Statements, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Standards Committee IFRSC have issued the following standards and interpretations which are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after the stated effective date.
These standards and interpretations are not effective for, and have not been adopted early in the preparation of the consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 9 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IASB effective date 1 January 2018 replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces: New requirements which look to align hedge accounting more closely with entities risk management activities New requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
A new impairment model for financial assets by applying the expected loss model Management has identified the following areas that are expected to be most impacted by the application of IFRS 9: - the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
Management holds most financial assets to hold and collect the associated cash flows and is currently assessing the underlying types of cash flows to classify financial assets correctly.
Management expects the majority of held-to-maturity HTM investments to continue to be accounted for at amortised cost.
However, a number of available-for-sale AFS investments and other financial assets are likely to be measured at fair value through profit or loss as the cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest, unless management make an irrevocable election to measure them through other comprehensive income.
The Group has completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 and it is expected that adoption will not have a material impact on total comprehensive income or net assets.
IFRS 15 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IASB effective 1 January 2018 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and several revenue related Interpretations.
The Group has completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 and it is expected that adoption will not have a material impact on total comprehensive income or net assets.
The majority of sales are made direct either in store or online at standard prices and provisions are already held for expected levels of returns.
IFRS 16 IFRS 16 Leases IASB effective 1 January 2019.
The Group has performed an initial assessment of the impact of IFRS 16, but has not yet performed a detailed impact assessment.
The Group will be required to recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for future lease commitments excluding low value leases and leases less than 12 months on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Within the Consolidated Income Statement IFRS 16 replaces straight line operating lease rental charges with depreciation of the right-of-use assets and an interest charge on the lease liabilities.
