Michael Murray is now considered to be a related party in the context of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
This is due to the increased scope of his role within the Group in the second half of the financial period, as he became Head of Elevation in April 2018, defining him as key management personnel.
COMMERCIAL ARRANGEMENTS The Group has commercial arrangements in place with IBSL Consultancy Ltd. Management has considered whether a related party relationship exists and concluded that Justin Barnes, a director of IBSL Consultancy Ltd, and or IBSL Consultancy Ltd are acting in an advisory capacity only and are not performing key management functions that would indicate a related party relationship.
Management decisions are made solely by the management of the Group.
Justin Barnes is a director of a number of companies in the Mash Group.
No payments made to Justin Barnes or IBSL Consultancy Ltd in relation to services provided to subsidiaries of Mash relate to services provided by IBSL Consultancy Ltd or Justin Barnes to the Group.
During FY17, the Company had arrangements in place with Barlin Delivery Limited, a company owned by John Ashley the brother of Mike Ashley.
This arrangement ceased as at 30 April 2017.
There were no commercial transactions between the Group and Barlin in the period ended 29 April 2018.
In December 2017, there was a vote by independent shareholders against a retrospective payment of 11m to John Ashley for executive bonuses forgone.
ULTIMATE CONTROLLING PARTY The Group is controlled by Mike Ashley through his 100% shareholding in Mash Beta Limited and Mash Holdings Limited, which own 303,507,460 56.52% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492,540 4.93% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company ordinary shares respectively at the period end.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Subsequent to the year end, JD Sports plc completed their takeover of The Finish Line Inc. and Sports Direct disposed of their remaining economic interest and received net proceeds from the sale of the physical shares of 45.2m.
The Company announced on 27 April 2018 that it has instructed Liberum Capital Limited in relation to an irrevocable non-discretionary share buyback programme to purchase the Companys shares during the closed period commencing on 30 April 2018 and ending on 19 July 2018.
In line with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation the Company recognised the full redemption amount of 40.0m which is considered to be immaterially different to the present value at year end.
If the contract expires without full delivery, the amount of the financial liability attributable to the undelivered shares is reclassified to equity reversing the original recognition.
As at 18 July 2018, nil shares have been repurchased under the closed period share buyback programme.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 193
