230 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS Adviser or financial adviser Deferred Income DIR An individual who is authorised by an appropriate regulatory authority Deferred income, which arises from the requirement in IFRS that to provide financial advice.
In the UK our advisers are authorised by initial charges on long-term financial instruments, should only be the FCA.
recognised over the lifetime of the business.
The initial amount of the balance is equal to the charge taken.
Administration platform, also Bluedoor A new client-centric administration system, being developed in Discretionary Fund Management DFM conjunction with our third-party outsourced administration provider, A generic term for a form of investment management in which buy DST.
The system is owned by DST.
and sell decisions are made or assisted by a portfolio manager for a client's account.
Within St. Jamess Place, the services provided by Capita Rowan Dartington including investment management, advisory A provider of business process outsourcing and integrated stockbroking and wealth planning are collectively referred to as professional support service solutions, which is our third-party Discretionary Fund Management, distinguishing them from the outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our services provided by our Partners and from the Investment Dublin-based life insurance company, SJPI.
Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM DST Systems DST The Executive Committee of the Board Executive Board, which is A provider of investor and policyholder, administration and responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance technology services, formerly known as International Financial Data of the operating segments.
DST is our third-party outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our UK life insurance company Client advocacy SJPUK, our unit trust manager SJPUTG, and our investment The Company requests feedback from clients biennially through a administration company SJPIA.
survey distributed alongside the Wealth Account.
Advocacy is measured by the response to the question Would you recommend European Embedded Value EEV SJP services to others?.
The potential responses distinguish EEV reflects the fact that the expected shareholder income from the between Yes, and have done so already, Yes, but have yet to do so sale of wealth management products emerges over a long period of and No.
time by bringing into account the net present value of the expected future cash flows.
EEV is calculated in accordance with the EEV Client numbers principles originally issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial The number of individuals who have received advice from a Officers Forum CFO Forum, supplemented in both October 2005 St. Jamess Place Partner and own a St. Jamess Place wrapper.
and, following the introduction of Solvency II, in April 2016.
Client retention Field Management Team FMT Client retention is assessed by calculating the proportion of clients at The team of managers within St. Jamess Place with day-to-day 1 January in the year who remain as a client throughout the year and responsibility for support and supervision of the Partnership.
are still a client on 31 December of the same year.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA Company The FCA is a company limited by guarantee and is independent of the The Company refers to St. Jamess Place plc, which is also referred Bank of England.
It is responsible for the conduct of business to as St. Jamess Place, St. Jamess Place plc and SJP throughout regulation of all firms including those firms subject to prudential the Annual Report and Accounts.
regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC prudential regulation of all firms not regulated by the PRA.
The FCA An intangible asset required to be established through the application has three statutory objectives: securing an appropriate degree of of IFRS to our long-term business.
The value of the asset is equal to protection for consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the amount of all costs which accrue in line with new business the UK financial system, and promoting effective competition in the volumes.
The asset is amortised over the expected lifetime of the interests of consumers.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 231 Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS Maturities The FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation scheme for customers Those sums paid out where a plan has reached the intended, of authorised financial services firms.
This means that the FSCS can pre-selected, maturity event e. g. retirement.
pay compensation if a firm is unable, or is likely to be unable, to pay Net inflows claims against it.
The FSCS is an independent body, set up under the Net inflows are Gross inflows less the amount of FUM withdrawn by Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA, and funded by a clients during the same period.
The net inflows is the growth in FUM levy on authorised financial services firms.
The scheme covers not attributable to investment performance.
deposits, insurance policies, insurance brokering, investments, mortgages and mortgage arrangement.
Paraplanner Staff in a Partner practice who support the advisers in that practice.
Funds Under Management FUM Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on Policyholder and Shareholder tax behalf of the Group, including all life insurance and unit trust assets, The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax from life insurance but not assets managed by third parties where we have only policyholders by making an equivalent charge within the corporate introduced or advised on the business.
Assets managed by Rowan tax of the Company.
This part of the overall tax charge, which is Dartington count as FUM from the date of acquisition.
attributable to policyholders, is called policyholder tax.
The rest is shareholder tax.
Gross inflows Total new funds under management accepted in the period.
New Prudential Regulation Authority PRA funds accepted by Rowan Dartington count for Gross inflows from The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for the the date of acquisition.
prudential regulation of deposit-taking institutions, insurers and major investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to Group promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically The Group refers to the Company together with its subsidiaries as forinsurers, to contribute to the securing of an appropriate degree listed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Purchased Value of In-force PVIF These are accounting regulations issued by the International An intangible asset established on takeover or acquisition, reflecting Accounting Standards Board IASB designed to ensure comparable the present value of the expected emergence of profits from a preparation and disclosure of statements of financial position, and portfolio of long-term business.
The asset is amortised in line with are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the European the emergence of profits.
Union are required to use.
Registered Individuals RI Investment Management Approach IMA An individual who is registered by the FCA, particularly an individual The IMA is how St. Jamess Place manages clients investments.
who is registered to provide financial advice.
See also Adviser and Itismanaged by the St. Jamess Place Investment Committee, St. Jamess Place Partner.
whichin turn is advised by respected independent investment research consultancies, including Stamford Associates, Redington Regular income withdrawals and Aon Consulting.
The Investment Committee is responsible Those amounts, pre-selected by clients, which are paid out by way foridentifying fund managers for our funds, selecting from fund ofperiodic income.
management firms all around the world.
It is also responsible Retirement Account RA formonitoring the performance of our fund managers, and, if A pension product, launched during 2016, which incorporates both circumstances should change and it becomes necessary, then pre-retirement pension saving and post-retirement benefit receipts itisresponsible for changing the fund manager as well.
co. uk 232 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS C ON T I N U E D Rowan Dartington A wealth management business providing investment management, advisory stockbroking and wealth planning services acquired by St. Jamess Place during 2016.
Solvency II Insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU insurance regulation which became effective on 1 January 2016.
The key concerns of the regulation are to ensure robust risk management ininsurance companies and to use that understanding of risk to helpdetermine the right amount of capital for European insurance companies to hold to ensure their ongoing viability in all but the mostsevere stressed scenarios.
St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation The independent grant-making charity established at the same timeas the Company in 1992.
More information about the Charitable Foundation can be found on pages 71 to 75 or on the website www.
St. Jamess Place Partner A member of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Specifically, theindividual or business that is registered as an Appointed Representative of St. Jamess Place on the FCA website.
St. Jamess Place Partner practices vary in size and structure.
Many are sole traders but there are also a growing number of businesses employing many advisers.
St. Jamess Place Partnership The collective name for all of our advisers, who are Appointed Representatives of St. Jamess Place.
State Street State Street is a global financial services holding company offering custodian services, investment management services, and investment research and trading services.
State Street is responsible for the custody of the majority of the St. Jamess Place assets, and also provides other investment management services.
Surrenders and part-surrenders Those amounts of money which clients have chosen to withdraw from their plan, which were not pre-selected regular income withdrawals or maturities.
Vertically integrated When we describe St. Jamess Place as being vertically integrated, we are referring to the fact its distribution capability the Partnership and the manufacturers of the its investment products are both part of the Group.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC St. Jamess Place House 1 Tetbury Road Cirencester Gloucestershire GL7 1FP T: 0800 01 38 137 www.
