24 STRATEGIC REPORT FI N AN C I A L S develop administration systems and processes that will accommodate growth, We are driving contribute to future improvements in Partner and client experience, and reduce profitable growth.
the cost of business processing.
Our most significant investment in this area is our new Bluedoor administration platform: The deferral of cash generation on these further details on the progress we have Our approach products means the business always has made migrating to Bluedoor is set out Our financial business model is six years worth of funds in the gestation overleaf.
We attract and then retain period.
More information about our fees funds under management FUM on which on FUM can be found in Section 1 of the Performance measurement we receive an annual management fee.
This Financial Review on page 31. is the principal source of income for the Whilst our financial business model is Group expenditure is carefully managed with Group, out of which we meet the overheads straightforward, the impact of having a life clear targets set for growth in the core costs of the business and invest in growing the insurance company at the heart of the Group of running the Groups infrastructure, which Partnership and acquiring new FUM.
results in accounting complexity under our are known as Establishment expenses.
International Financial Reporting Standards The level of income we receive is dependent Many other expenses increase with IFRS statutory reporting framework.
For on the value of our FUM.
As a result, growth business levels and are met from margins this reason, we continue, in our Financial in FUM is a strong positive indicator of in the products.
The Group also invests in Review on pages 30 to 46, to supplement future growth in profits.
Due to the structure order to: IFRS information with the disclosure of of some of our products, approximately half alternative performance measures APMs.
continue building adviser capacity and of our new business does not generate net A full Glossary of APMs is provided on page attracting new funds: Cash result profits in the first six years after 227, in which we define each APM, explain enhance the Groups future capability it is written.
This means that the benefit of its use and, if applicable, explain how the to grow over the long-term through these gross inflows into FUM for a given measure can be reconciled to the IFRS the Academy, our discretionary year will not be seen until six years later, as financial statements.
The key APMs used fund management proposition, and the business becomes cash generative.
bythe Group are set out below.
European Embedded How we engage 1 We maintain close relationships with and Cash results Value EEV institutional shareholders and sellThe Cash results are used by the Board Both the IFRS and Cash results report side analysts primarily through direct to monitor the annual level of cash the financial performance for the year.
dialogue and frequent meetings profit generated by the business, as However, as our business is long term, throughout the year.
We receive they exclude certain non-cash items we supplement these metrics with EEV.
routine feedback from corporate that are included under IFRS, such Under EEV methodology, the future cash brokers on the views of institutional as deferred tax and non-cash-settled flows expected to arise from the in-force shareholders, and in 2018 we also share option costs.
Operating cash business are modelled and discounted commissioned Makinson Cowell, shows the emergence of cash from back to present value.
This provides a leading capital markets advisory business operations.
Underlying cash the long-term economic value of the business, to undertake independent additionally reflects the cash impact of business in-force.
research into shareholder strategic investments such as Asia.
perspectives of the Group and The Cash result includes all other cash present the findings to the Board.
1 The Cash result should not be confused with items, along with the short-term costs the IAS 7 consolidated statement of cashassociated with our Bluedoor project.
flows, which is presented on page 157.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 25 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Bluedoor Development of the Bluedoor administration platform has Objective: Achieve been part of a multi-year investment programme to ensure our future systems and processes can support our overall sustainable growth in business objectives.
In 2018, we made further significant progress in our programme.
During the year we successfully reported profit on all migrated a 24 billion tranche of our accumulation-stage pensions business as well as all of our 5 billion pensions measures drawdown book.
As a result, we now administer around 77% of all new business on Bluedoor, and 63% of total FUM, PROGRESS DURING 2018 meaning that we are already benefitting from our investment Our business model is simple and is aligned with the needs into this new system.
of both our clients and the Partnership.
We have continued Looking ahead, 2019 will be another year of intense activity to grow FUM through attracting new client assets to the as we focus first on launching new investment bonds on business and maintaining high retention levels, partially the platform, then on migrating the remaining tranches of offset by weaker investment markets.
Growth in FUM is the our accumulation-stage pensions business, and, finally, principal driver of the financial results, and so we are pleased migrating our existing investment bond business.
to report a continuation of the trend of recent years.
The graphs below set out St. JamessPlace financial KPIs.
Further information about why these KPIs are important can be found in the Glossary of Key Performance Indicators on page 226.
