STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 145 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of the Group and the Parent Company and hence for taking regulation.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group financial statements in accordance with International the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ European Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting The Directors consider that the Annual Report and accounts, taken Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the financial statements, the Directors are required to: best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Parent Company financial statements, which have been consistently: prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and have been followed for the Group financial statements and United applicable law give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been financial position and profit of the Parent Company: followed for the Parent Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in statements: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Group: and and prudent: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless performance of the business and the position of the Group and it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks will continue in business.
and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting By order of the Board records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company ELIZABETH KELLY and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Company Secretary Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 26 February 2019 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
co. uk 146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report Parent Company Financial to the Members of Statements under Financial St. Jamess Place plc.................... 148 Reporting Standard 101................ 206 Consolidated Financial Parent Company Statement Statementsunder International of Financial Position.................. 207 Financial Reporting Standards..... 154 Parent Company Statement Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.................. 207 ofComprehensive Income....... 154 Notes to the Parent Company Consolidated Statement Financial Statements................ 208 ofChanges in Equity.................. 155 Consolidated Statement Supplementary Information: ofFinancial Position.................. 156 Consolidated Financial Statementson a Cash Result Consolidated Statement Basis unaudited.......................... 213 ofCashFlows.............................. 157 Consolidated Statement Notes To The Consolidated of Comprehensive Income Financial Statements Under onaCash Result Basis International Financial unaudited.................................. 214 ReportingStandards.................. 158 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity onaCash Result Basis unaudited........... 215 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position onaCash Result Basis unaudited........... 216 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements onaCashResult Basis unaudited.................................. 217 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 147 W E A R E SECU R I NG GROW TH The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
These statutory IFRS financial statements have been supplemented with consolidated financial statements on a Cash result basis, which are unaudited and have been prepared by adjusting the financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS for items which do not reflect the cash emerging from the business.
In addition, financial statements for the Parent Company, St. Jamess Place plc, have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101.
The business has delivered resilient growth in financials across each set of financial statements.
211.9m 173.5m 33.0 pence IFRS PROFIT BEFORE IFRS PROFIT AFTER TAX IFRS BASIC SHAREHOLDER TAX EARNINGS PER SHARE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
