STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 227 GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Within the Annual Report and Accounts various alternative performance measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined by the relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight into the performance of the Group and the way it is managed by the Directors.
The table below defines each APM, explains why it is used and, if applicable, where the APM has been reconciled to IFRS: Financial position related APMs Reconciliation to the financial APM Definition Why is this measure used?
statements Solvency II Based on IFRS Net Assets, but with the following Our ability to satisfy our liabilities to clients, and Refer to page 38. netassets adjustments: consequently our solvency, is central to our business.
By removing the liabilities which are fully 1.
R eflection of the recognition requirements of the matched by assets, this presentation allows the Solvency II regulations for assets and liabilities.
reader to focus on the business operation.
It also Inparticular this removes deferred acquisition provides a simpler comparison with other wealth costs DAC, deferred income DIR, purchased management companies.
value of in-force PVIF and their associated deferred tax balances, other intangibles and some other small items which are treated as inadmissible from a regulatory perspective: and 2.
A djustment to remove the matching client assets and the liabilities as these do not represent shareholder assets.
No adjustment is made to deferred tax, except for that arising on DAC, DIR and PVIF, as this is treated as an allowable asset in the Solvency II regulation.
Total A discounted cashflow valuation methodology, Life business and wealth management business Not applicable.
embedded assessing the long-term economic value of the differ from most other businesses, in that the value business.
expected shareholder income from the sale of a product emerges over a long period in the future.
Our embedded value is determined in line with the Wetherefore supplement the IFRS and Cash results EEV principles, originally set out by the Chief Financial by providing additional disclosure on an embedded Officers CFO Forum in 2004, and amended for value basis, which brings into account the net subsequent changes to the principles, including present value of expected future cash flows, as those published in April 2016, following the webelieve that a measure of total economic value implementation of Solvency II.
ofthe Group is useful to investors.
Net asset EEV net asset value per share is calculated as the Total embedded value provides a measure of total Not applicable.
value NAV EEV net assets divided by the year end number of economic value of the Group, and assessing the per share ordinary shares.
NAV per share allows analysis of the overall value EEV ofthe group by share.
NAV per share IFRS net asset value per share is calculated as the Total IFRS net assets provides a measure of value of Not applicable.
IFRS IFRS net assets divided by the year-end number of the Group, and assessing the NAV per share allows ordinary shares.
analysis of the overall value of the Group by share.
co. uk 228 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES C ON T I N U E D Financial performance related APMs Reconciliation to the financial APM Definition Why is this measure used?
statements Operating cash The Cash result is defined as the movement IFRS income statement methodology recognises Refer to pages result, between the opening and closing Solvency II net non-cash items such as deferred tax and non-cash- 34, 35 and also Underlying assets adjusted for the following items: settled share options.
By contrast, dividends can see Note 3 cash result only be paid to shareholders from appropriately Segment Profit 1.
T he movement in deferred tax is removed to and Cash fungible assets.
The Board therefore uses the Cash to the reflect just the cash realisation from the deferred result results to monitor the level of cash generated by the consolidated tax position: business.
T he movements in goodwill and other intangibles While the Cash result gives an absolute measure of are included: and the cash generated in the year, the Underlying and Operating cash results are particularly useful for 3.
O ther changes in equity, such as dividends paid monitoring the expected long-term rate of cash in the year and non-cash-settled share option emergence, which supports dividends and costs, are excluded.
The Operating cash result reflects the regular emergence of cash from the business operations.
The Underlying cash results additionally reflects the cash impact of the strategic investments we are making.
Finally, the Cash result reflects all other cash items, including those whose emergence is volatile, varying over time and often influenced by markets, together with the short-term costs associated with the back-office infrastructure project.
Neither the Cash result nor the underlying cash result should be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Underlying These EPS measures are calculated as Underlying As Underlying cash is the best reflection of the cash Not applicable.
cash basic and cash divided by the number of shares used in the generated by the business, Underlying cash EPS diluted calculation of IFRS basic and diluted EPS.
measures allow analysis of the shareholder cash earnings per generated by the business by share.
share EPS EEV profit Derived as the movement in the total EEV during the Both the IFRS and Cash results reflect only the See Note 3 year.
However our business is Segment Profit long-term, and activity in the year can generate to the business with a long-term value.
We therefore consolidated believe it is helpful to understand the full economic financial impact of activity in the year, which is the aim of the statements EEV methodology.
EEV operating A discounted cashflow valuation methodology, Both the IFRS and Cash results reflect only the cash See Note 3 profit assessing the long-term economic value of the flows in the year.
However, our business is long-term, Segment Profit business.
and activity in the year can generate business with a to the long-term value.
We therefore believe it is helpful to consolidated Our embedded value is determined in line with the understand the full economic impact of activity in financial EEV principles, originally set out by the Chief the year, which is the aim of the EEV methodology.
statements Financial Officers CFO Forum in 2004, and amended for subsequent changes to the principles, Within the EEV, many of the future cash flows derive including those published in April 2016, following the from fund charges, which change with movements implementation of Solvency II.
Since the impact of these changes is typically unrelated to the performance of the The EEV operating profit reflects the total EEV result business, we believe that the EEV operating profit with an adjustment to strip out the impact of stock reflecting the EEV profit, adjusted to reflect only the market and other economic effects during the year.
expected investment performance and no change in economic basis provides the most useful measure of embedded value performance in the year.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 229 Reconciliation to the financial APM Definition Why is this measure used?
statements EEV operating These EPS measures are calculated as EEV As EEV operating profit is the best reflection of the Not applicable.
profit basic operating profit after tax divided by the number of EEV generated by the business, EEV operating profit and diluted shares used in the calculation of IFRS basic and EPS measures allow analysis of the long-term value earnings per diluted EPS.
generated by the business by share.
share EPS Policyholder Shareholder tax is estimated by making an The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax Disclosed as and assessment of the effective rate of tax that is from life insurance policyholders by making an separate line Shareholder applicable to the shareholders on the profits equivalent charge within the corporate tax of the items in the tax attributable to the shareholders.
The total tax charge for the insurance statement of by applying the appropriate effective corporate tax companies therefore comprises both this element comprehensive rates to the shareholder profits.
and an element more closely related to normal income on page corporation tax.
The remainder of the tax charge represents tax onpolicyholders investment returns.
Life insurance business impacted by this tax typically includes policy charges which align with the This calculation method is consistent with the tax liability, to mitigate the impact on the corporate.
legislation relating to the calculation of the tax As a result, when policyholder tax increases, the onshareholders profits.
Given these offsetting items can be large, and typically do not perform in line with the business, it is beneficial to be able to identify the two elements separately.
We therefore refer to that part of the overall tax charge, which is deemed attributable to policyholders, as policyholder tax, andthe rest as shareholder tax.
Profit before A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result The IFRS methodology requires that the tax Disclosed as shareholder adjusted for policyholder tax, but before deduction recognised in the financial statements should aseparate line tax of shareholder tax.
Within the consolidated include the tax incurred on behalf of policyholders item in the statement of comprehensive income the full title inour UK life assurance company.
Since the statement of ofthis measure is Profit before tax attributable policyholder tax charge is unrelated to the comprehensive toshareholders' returns.
performance of the business, we believe it is income on page alsouseful to separately identify the profit before 154. shareholder tax, which reflects the IFRS profit beforetax, adjusted only for tax paid on behalf ofpolicyholders.
Underlying A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result The IFRS methodology promotes recognition of Refer to page profit adjusted to remove the DAC, DIR and PVIF profits in line with the provision of services and so, 34. adjustments.
for long-term business, some of the initial cash flows are spread over the life of the contract through the use of intangible assets and liabilities DAC and DIR.
Due to the Retail Distribution Review RDR regulation change in 2013, there was a step change in the progression of these items in our accounts, which resulted in significant accounting presentation changes despite the fundamentals of our verticallyintegrated business remaining unchanged.
We therefore believe it is useful to consider the IFRS result having removed the impact of movements in these intangibles as it better reflects the underlying performance of the business.
