226 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI s The Groups KPIs on clients, the Partnership, funds and financials are set out on pages 19, 21, 23 and 25 respectively.
This KPI glossary sets out why each of these KPIs are important to the Group.
CLIENT KPIs FUND KPIs Client numbers Gross inflows Our business model is based on managing client wealth and so the Gross inflows are the gross new investment and pensions business number of clients is a key measure of the health of the business.
principally single premium received during the year.
We aim to grow Aswell as reflecting past performance, it also indicates future gross inflows by 15% to 20% per annum over the long term.
In 2018, opportunity, as our experience suggests that over 90% of new gross inflows grew by 8%.
This reflected both the difficult market business comes from existing clients or their referrals.
In 2018, conditions that prevailed in 2018, and the exceptional outcome in wewere pleased that client numbers increased from 633,000 to 2017.
Net inflows Client retention Retention of funds is a result of satisfied clients and is essential if Our business is long-term and client retention feeds directly into the FUM is to continue to grow.
Growth of 8% in the year was in line with financial result.
However, it is also an indication of minimum growth in gross inflows, demonstrating our continued strength in standards having been met.
We are therefore delighted that retention retaining client FUM.
was again above 95%, continuing the trend of recent years.
Funds Under Management FUM Client advocacy The profitability measures of the Group are ultimately driven by the Our reputation is vitally important to our business model and this is income we earn from FUM.
The FUM has exhibited compound best expressed through the experience of our clients.
Our Wealth annual growth of 19% over the last ten years.
Account survey, conducted biennially from 2016 onwards, provides FINANCIAL KPIs an excellent insight into client experience.
Responses to the question EEV operating profit before tax Would you recommend St. Jamess Place to anyone else?, have The European Embedded Value EEV reporting basis assesses the been very positive over time, with the 2018 data indicating a 94% full value of the emergence of shareholder cash returns over the long advocacy rate.
New business gross inflows is the most significant underlying THE PARTNERSHIP KPIs driver of EEV operating profit.
An increase in gross inflows of 8%, Adviser numbers along with operational economies of scale achieved as fixed Without our advisers, we would have no clients.
We were therefore expenses are spread across more new business, drove a 9% pleased to deliver growth in line with our long-term aspirations, increasein EEV operating profit before tax year on year.
supported by Academy graduates and recruitment in Asia.
Adviser Underlying cash result numbers grew from 3,661 in 2017 to 3,954 in 2018.
Underlying cash profit reflects the regular emergence of cash from the business operations whilst also reflecting the impact of the Adviser retention strategic investments we are making.
Underlying cash profit was up Adviser retention reflects advisers continuing satisfaction with our 10% reflecting the continuing growth in the business.
We are therefore pleased to note that retention has remained at the high level of 93%.
Dividends Gross inflows per adviser Growth in profit measures, particularly cash, means the Company is Gross inflows per adviser is a measure of their success as able to increase the level of dividend.
We are pleased to confirm an businesspeople, but also feeds into success for the Company.
increase of 12.5% in dividend in the year, bringing the total increase In2018 gross inflows per adviser remained flat at 3.98million over the last five years to 202%.
2017:3.99million, reflecting the 8% increase in grows inflows being matched by the 8% increase in adviser numbers.
