INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk Our response Going concern Potential disclosure omission Our procedures included: The financial statements explain how Refer to page 82 Audit 1.
Funding assessment: Confirming the Group has the Board has formed a judgement that Committee report and sufficient resources to repay the debt falling due in it is appropriate to adopt the going page 132 accounting policy.
at least the 12 months from the date of approval of the concern basis of preparation for the financial statements by analysing the Groups financing Group and Company.
terms and reviewing directors forecasts and assumptions That judgement is based on an for ongoing covenant compliance and available evaluation of the inherent risks to headroom.
the Groups and Companys business 2.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups model, in particular, risks associated assumptions used in the cash flow projections to with Brexit, and how those risks might externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as affect the Groups and Companys projected growth, forecast property market valuations financial resources or ability to continue and cost inflation.
operations over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of 3.
Sensitivity analysis: Considering sensitivities over the financial statements.
the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably The risks most likely to adversely affect possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could the Groups and Companys available arise from these risks individually and collectively, such financial resources over this period as a fall in house prices and property values as a result were mainly driven by Brexit and were: of Brexit.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the completeness on development projects: and accuracy of the disclosures in the annual report and significant falls in real estate value: ensuring that they reflect the position of the Groups and financing and the risks associated with the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
the impact of Brexit on the Groups supply chain.
Our results The risk for our audit was whether We found the going concern disclosure without any material or not those risks were such that they uncertainty to be acceptable.
amounted to a material uncertainty that may have cast significant doubt about the ability to continue as a going concern.
Had they been such, then that fact would have been required to have been disclosed.
Carrying value of Low risk high value Company key Our procedures included: investments in subsidiaries audit matter 1.
Tests of detail: Re-performing the equity method and joint ventures Investments in subsidiaries and joint calculations used to determine the carrying value of 770.9m 2017: 773.5m ventures represent 43% 2017: 43% the investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures and of the Companys total assets.
Their Refer to page 178 accounting assessing the recoverable amount of the individual recoverability is not at a high risk of policy and pages 179 to 183 investments by comparing the carrying value to their significant misstatement or subject financial disclosures.
net assets, being an approximation of their minimum to significant judgement.
recoverable amount, to ensure they were in excess of However, due to their materiality in their carrying amount.
Assessing the work performed the context of the Company financial on the audit of those subsidiaries and joint ventures and statements, this is considered to be the considering the results of that work in relation to the area that will have the greatest effect valuation of investment properties and inventories the on our overall Company audit.
key inputs used in the relevant subsidiaries net assets.
Our results We found the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 124 Annual report and financial statements 2018
