INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk Our response Carrying value of Subjective valuation Our procedures included: housebuilding and Housebuilding and portfolio inventories 1.
Control design: Testing the design and implementation portfolio inventory and comprise properties which have been and operating effectiveness of controls relating to the profit recognition on previously developed and are ready allocation of margin to housebuilding sales throughout housebuilding sales for sale, properties which are under the year and the authorisation of cost transfers between Housebuilding inventory: construction with a view to sell and housebuilding sites.
292.3m 2017: 191.6m land which has been acquired for future development with a view 2.
Tests of detail: Verifying a sample of housebuilding Portfolio inventory: 74.1m to subsequent sale.
and portfolio inventory additions, disposals and transfers 2017: 161.1m to source documentation and analysing the additions In order to assess the net realisable Development profits on to highlight any items that potentially should have been value of housebuilding and portfolio housebuilding sales: 44.7m recorded as an expense.
inventory and profit recognised on 2017: 38.6m housebuilding sales, appraisals are 3.
Our sector expertise: Discussing a sample of Refer to page 81 Audit prepared for each site, which include housebuilding and portfolio development sites with Committee report, pages 133 forecast revenue and costs and provide management to obtain an understanding of the status and 138 accounting policies an indication of the recoverability of of the site, focusing on matters relevant to the site and pages 140 to 141 and 163 the inventory.
valuation, including the status of the development to 164 financial disclosures.
and ensuring that the appraisal reflects any additional The risk is that these site appraisals unexpected costs.
We selected a risk based sample using include a number of estimates, such as criteria including quantum of work in progress, low profit forecast revenue and costs, that could margin and length of development project.
This also be subject to error resulting in the net included considering reasonably possible Brexit effects realisable value not being accurately on the appraisal forecasts.
measured or profit on housebuilding sales not being appropriately 4.
Historical comparisons: Where a housebuilding or recognised.
The margin allocation portfolio development site has been appraised over a drives the recognition of housebuilding period of time, seeking an understanding of the changes profit as each unit is sold, which is a to assumptions over time for the sample of sites and key judgement and is where fraud considering whether those changes were consistent could occur.
with our site-specific and market expectations.
Brexit, as discussed in the key audit 5.
Historical comparisons: For a sample of housebuilding matter above, adds further uncertainties sales, comparing the actual sales value achieved to the to the valuation of inventories.
forecast sales value to assess managements ability to forecast accurately.
We also analysed average cost per square foot across the housebuilding developments to identify any anomalies to investigate.
Assessing transparency: Critically assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to judgement and estimation in relation to these balances.
Our results We found the carrying value of housebuilding and portfolio inventory and profit recognition on housebuilding sales to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 122 Annual report and financial statements 2018
