NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the seventy-eighth Annual General subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC the Company directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with will be held in the Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, or Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on Friday, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws 29 March 2019 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, of, any country or territory or any other matter.
to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the authorities will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 14 to 17 conferred by this resolution 13 shall apply in substitution for will be proposed as special resolutions.
all existing authorities under section 551 of the Act until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on Ordinary business which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2020, but, in Annual report and financial statements each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 1.
To receive the Companys annual report and financial agreements before the authority expires which would or might statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2018. require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after the Directors Remuneration report authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report excluding the such rights under such an offer or agreement as if the authority part containing the directors remuneration policy as set out had not expired.
on pages 90 to 113 of the annual report and financial Disapplication of pre-emption rights statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2018.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13, the directors 3.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the 30 November 2018 of 4.0 pence per ordinary share, payable Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within on 4 April 2019 to those shareholders on the register of the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to members at the close of business on 8 March 2019. the authority conferred by resolution 13 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Election and re-election of directors section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment 4.
To elect Danuta Gray as a director.
or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: 5.
To re-elect Mark Allan as a director.
a any such allotment and or sale in connection with an offer 6.
To re-elect Ian Bull as a director.
or issue by way of rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, to: 7.
To re-elect Simon Clarke as a director.
i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 8.
To re-elect Jenefer Greenwood as a director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 9.
To re-elect Jamie Hopkins as a director.
ii holders of other equity securities, as required by 10.
To re-elect Rob Hudson as a director.
the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, Appointment and remuneration of auditor 11.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with at which accounts are laid.
treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws 12.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the of, any country or territory or any other matter: and remuneration of the Companys auditor on behalf of the Board.
b any such allotment and or sale, other than pursuant to Special business paragraph a of this resolution 14, having, in the case of Authority to allot shares ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount or, in the 13.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the directors case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to: nominal amount, not exceeding 1,111,884. a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to conferred by this resolution 14 shall apply in substitution for all an aggregate nominal amount of 7,412,566: and existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on b allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2020, but, in of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 7,412,566 in connection with an offer by way of a rights agreements before the power expires which would or might issue to: require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may as treasury shares to be sold for cash after the power expires be practicable to their existing holdings: and and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash under such an offer ii holders of other equity securities, as required by or agreement as if the power had not expired.
the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, St. Modwen Properties PLC 188 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Special resolution Notice of meetings other than AGMs 15.
That, subject and in addition to the passing of resolution 13, Special resolution the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 17.
To authorise the Company to call a general meeting other than of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that this within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 13 and or Company after the date on which this resolution is passed.
to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such Recommendation allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be: The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
a limited to any such allotment and or sale of equity The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in securities having, in the case of ordinary shares, an favour of each of the above resolutions, as they intend to do in aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other equity respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
securities, giving the right to subscribe or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal amount, By order of the Board not exceeding 1,111,884: and Andrew Eames b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, General Counsel and Company Secretary if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which directors 22 February 2019 determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published St. Modwen Properties PLC by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice.
Registered number: 349201 Registered office: Park Point, Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers 17 High Street, Longbridge, conferred by this resolution 15 shall apply in substitution for all Birmingham B31 2UQ existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2020, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions agreements before the power expires which would or might Ordinary resolutions require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held For a resolution proposed as an ordinary resolution to be passed, as treasury shares to be sold for cash after the power expires more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity Resolution 1 Annual report and financial statements securities held as treasury shares for cash under such an offer Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the annual report or agreement as if the power had not expired.
and financial statements for the financial year ended 30 November Purchase of own ordinary shares by the Company 2018.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
Special resolution Resolution 2 Directors remuneration 16.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Remuneration report, other than the part containing the directors Act to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the remuneration policy.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in its capital Ordinary this vote is advisory only and the directors entitlement to receive Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may remuneration is not conditional on it.
The resolution and vote from time to time determine provided that: provide a means for shareholders to give feedback to the Board on a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the directors hereby authorised to be purchased is 22,237,698: remuneration policy set out in full in the annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2016 which is available b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary at www.
co. uk was approved by shareholders at the Share is 10 pence exclusive of expenses : 2017 AGM.
As required, the Company will at the next AGM in 2020 c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary seek shareholder approval for a new directors remuneration policy.
Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders of an Ordinary Share for the five business days are asked to declare a final dividend.
The directors recommend immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 November 2018 Share is contracted to be purchased: and of 4.0 pence per ordinary share.
If approved, this will be paid on 4 April 2019 to shareholders on the register of members at the ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and close of business on 8 March 2019. the highest current independent bid for any number of Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange: and Resolutions 4 to 10 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 10 are ordinary resolutions which deal with the d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the election and re-election of the directors.
In accordance with the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date Companys Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 28 June 2020, Code, all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his except in relation to the purchase of any Ordinary Shares or her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
the contract for which was concluded before the date of expiry of the authority and which would or might be completed wholly or partly after that date.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 189 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Following her appointment to the Board on 1 October 2018, Jenefer has strengthened further the existing expertise of the Board Danuta Gray will retire and offer herself for election.
in relation to real estate and has effectively assumed the role of Remuneration Committee Chair.
As announced, Bill Shannon will not be standing for re-election at the AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves Jamie Hopkins resolution 9 for re-election.
Jamie was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 1 March 2018.
Chief Executive of Workspace Group plc Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 70 and 71. since 2012, he is experienced in real estate, asset management The performance of and contribution made by individual directors services and acquisitions in both public and private companies, has been reviewed by the Chairman during the course of the year as well as having strong operational skills including in financing and and the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each reporting.
Jamie complements the Boards skillsets and expertise director continues to be effective, that they continue to and brings current commercial experience.
demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall Resolutions 11 and 12 Auditor appointment and remuneration operation of the Board.
The Board therefore recommends the At last years AGM shareholders appointed KPMG as auditor of the reappointment of all directors standing for re-election.
Further Company to hold office until the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
KPMG supporting information regarding the non-executive directors has expressed a willingness to continue in office and the Audit can be found below.
Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and recommends their re-appointment.
Therefore resolutions 11 and 12 Danuta Gray resolution 4 are ordinary resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor until the Danuta was appointed to the Board in October 2018 as Chair conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid Designate and sits on the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
before the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to Provided resolution 4 is approved by shareholders, she will assume determine their remuneration on behalf of the Board.
the role of Chairman and Nomination Committee Chair from Bill Shannon following the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Resolution 13 Authority to allot shares The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to allot Danuta has joined the Company with significant Board and shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
Until 2012 she was Chair of Telefnica O2 Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution to renew this authority.
in Ireland, having previously been its Chief Executive Officer from 2001 to 2010 and has served as a non-executive director on a The Investment Association IA guidelines on directors authority number of Boards, across the global telecommunications and IT, to allot shares state that IA members will permit, and treat as routine, consumer and financial services sectors.
resolutions seeking authority to allot new shares representing up to one-third of a companys issued share capital.
In addition, they will Ian Bull resolution 6 treat as routine a request for authority to allot shares representing Ian was appointed to the Board in September 2014 and is Chairman an additional one-third of a companys issued share capital of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director since provided that it is only used to allot shares pursuant to a fully March 2018.
His career in finance spans over 25 years, including pre-emptive rights issue.
board level finance roles at Ladbrokes plc and Greene King plc.
Ian brings to the Board a wealth of corporate and financial Paragraph a of resolution 13 will, if resolution 13 is passed, knowledge, together with a sound understanding of accounting authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate and regulatory matters.
nominal amount of 7,412,566, which represents one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2019 During the past year, as Audit Committee Chair, he has ensured being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the that the Audit Committee considered risk and various new financial notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution 13 proposes that, in compliance requirements including new reporting standards.
accordance with IA guidance, an additional authority be conferred As Senior Independent Director, Ian led the search for the Chair on the directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue up Designate, Danuta Gray.
to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 7,412,566.
Simon Clarke resolution 7 The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 13 are Simon was appointed to the Board in October 2004 following in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys the death of his father, Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder and former Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to Chairman of the Company.
He is currently Chairman of Dunstall previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under Holdings Ltd, Trustee of Racing Welfare and Chairman of such existing authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the Racing Homes.
earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or Whilst not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK 28 June 2020.
Corporate Governance Code, as the longest serving director Simon The directors have no present intention of exercising these brings continuity and extensive knowledge of the business to the authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its Board as well as strong commercial and management experience.
share incentive plans approved previously by shareholders, but Jenefer Greenwood, OBE resolution 8 believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to have the Jenefer was appointed to the Board in June 2017 and was appointed authorities available to respond to market developments and to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in March 2018 and is a enable allotments to take place without the need for a general member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
She has over meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
30 years experience and knowledge of the real estate sector starting with Hillier Parker and subsequently working for Grosvenor Ltd until 2012 when she retired as director of sales and lettings.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 190 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Special resolutions Resolution 16 Authority to purchase shares For a resolution proposed as a special resolution to be passed, Resolution 16 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of to the directors at last years AGM to make purchases of its own the resolution.
ordinary shares through the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
Resolutions 14 and 15 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights No shares were purchased during the year and the Company If the directors wish to allot new shares or other equity securities, does not hold any shares in treasury.
company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
At last years If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to AGM a special resolution was passed, under section 570 of the purchase up to 22,237,698 of its ordinary shares, which represents Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot equity 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares 8 February 2019 being the latest practicable date prior to the to existing shareholders.
It is proposed that this authority be publication of the notice of AGM.
The resolution specifies the renewed in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any ordinary shares purchased under this authority.
The authority Under resolution 14, it is proposed that the directors be authorised will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of to issue shares for cash and or sell shares from treasury if any are the Company and 28 June 2020. so held without offering them first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings: The directors have no present intention for the Company to exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its a in respect of a rights issue, open offer or other offer that own shares.
They would do so only after taking account of the generally provides existing shareholders with the opportunity overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances to subscribe for new shares pro rata to their existing holdings.
where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in the This part of the authority is designed to give the directors best interests of shareholders generally and result in an increase flexibility to exclude certain shareholders from such an offer in earnings per ordinary share.
The Company may either cancel where the directors consider it necessary or desirable to do any shares it purchases under this authority or transfer them into so in order to avoid legal, regulatory or practical problems treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury that would otherwise arise: or or cancel them.
b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,111,884 up to As at 8 February 2019 being the latest practicable date prior to 11,118,840 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This amount the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company had options represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary outstanding over 7,363,083 ordinary shares, representing 3.31% share capital as at 8 February 2019 being the latest practicable of the issued share capital on that date.
If the Company was to date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
This part of purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the authority is designed to provide the Board with flexibility this resolution, the options outstanding at 8 February 2019 would to raise further equity funding and to pursue acquisition represent 4.14% of the issued share capital.
opportunities as and when they may arise.
Resolution 17 Notice period of general meetings The authority proposed under resolution 15 is in addition to The Company must give at least 21 clear days notice of any the authority granted by resolution 14.
Under resolution 15, it is general meeting, but is permitted to call meetings other than the proposed that the directors be authorised to disapply statutory AGM on at least 14 clear days notice if annual shareholder approval pre-emption rights in respect of an additional 5% of the Companys is obtained beforehand.
The Company must also offer, for any issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2019 being the latest meeting held on less than 21 clear days notice, a facility to vote practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
by electronic means that is accessible to all shareholders.
This further authority may only be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced Resolution 17 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted contemporaneously with the issue, or that has taken place in the at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold general meetings preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This of the issue as contemplated by the Pre-Emption Groups March authority will be effective until the Companys next AGM.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine Excluding any shares issued in connection with an acquisition for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the or specified capital investment as described above, the directors business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued of shareholders as a whole.
ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authorities sought in resolutions 14 and 15 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or 28 June 2020.
The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its share incentive plans approved by shareholders, but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility that these authorities provide.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 191 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Shareholder notes shareholder, the proxy form must be executed under its common 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose In the case of an individual, the proxy form must be signed by the of determining the number of votes they may cast, shareholders appointing shareholder.
Any alterations made to the proxy form must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.30pm should be initialled.
on Wednesday, 27 March 2019 or, in the event of any adjournment, 4.
Appointment of proxies electronically at 6.30pm on the date which is two days before the date of the Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the website at www.
co. uk using their personal Voting ID, rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting in respect Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are printed of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already proposed that all votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be taken registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can by way of a poll.
appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio 2.
Appointment of proxies general at www.
co. uk using your usual user ID and password.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened Once logged in simply click View on the My Investments page, by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all click on the link to vote then follow the on-screen instructions.
or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent or her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than to any address other than those provided or if received after one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 27 March 2019. appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or 5.
Appointment of proxies through CREST shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST electronic For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures appointment of proxy, see note 4 below must be received by the described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other Companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 27 March appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST 2019.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person appropriate action on their behalf.
if he or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 3.
Appointment of proxies proxy form CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST A form which may be used to appoint a proxy and give proxy Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance instructions has been sent to shareholders.
If you do not have a with Euroclear UK & Ireland Ltds EUI specifications and must proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require contain the information required for such instructions, as described additional forms to appoint more than one proxy, please contact in the CREST Manual available at www.
The the Companys registrars, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2198 overseas message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open from 8.30am a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as England and Wales.
Alternatively, photocopy the proxy form which to be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt has been sent to you.
All forms must be signed and should be of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time returned together in the same envelope.
of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to from which Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note that the to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should to abstain on any particular resolution: it is not a vote in law and be communicated to the appointee through other means.
will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If you sign the proxy form and return it without any CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors specific directions your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make his or her discretion.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Chairman of the meeting, please insert the name of your chosen Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in proxy holder in the space provided on the proxy form.
If the proxy relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder who those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect of the of the CREST system and timings.
holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the in which the names appear in the Companys register of members circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a corporate Securities Regulations 2001.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 192 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 6.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions 11.
Website publication of audit concerns To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 appointment using the methods set out above.
Where two or more of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the a statement on its website setting out any matter that such same share and for the same meeting, those received last by shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the Equiniti will take precedence.
audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need to b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly ceasing to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company cannot stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Equiniti require the shareholders requesting the publication to pay its Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA.
In the case of expenses in complying with the request.
Any statement placed a corporate shareholder, the revocation notice must be executed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised than the time the statement is made available on the website.
Any power of attorney or any other authority The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified any statement that the Company has been required to publish copy of such power of attorney must be included with the on its website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006. revocation notice.
Termination of proxy appointments made through CREST must be made in accordance with the procedures 12.
Total voting rights described in the CREST Manual.
As at 8 February 2019 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share 7.
Corporate representatives capital consisted of 222,376,988 shares carrying one vote each.
A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 8 February representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a 2019 was 222,376,988. shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will 13.
Documents available for inspection have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when The following documents are available for inspection at the attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti for further guidance.
registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior 8.
Nominated persons to and during the AGM: Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under section 146 of a copies of the directors service agreements with the Company: the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated b copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: Person may, under an agreement with the shareholder who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone c a copy of the Companys existing Articles of Association: and else appointed, as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person d a copy of the Companys indemnity for directors.
has no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give voting instructions 14.
Communication with the Company to the shareholder.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form to The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not expressly stated.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
If you are a Nominated Person it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who administers the investment on your behalf.
Shareholder participation Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting and the Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on a website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 193 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Shareholder analysis Holdings of ordinary shares as at 30 November 2018: Shareholders Shares Number % Number % By shareholder Individuals 2,755 78.81 16,602,651 7.47 Directors and connected persons 27 0.77 15,551,331 6.99 Insurance companies, nominees and pension funds 674 19.28 185,131,377 83.25 Other limited companies and corporate bodies 40 1.14 5,091,629 2.29 3,496 100.00 222,376,988 100.00 By shareholding Up to 500 985 28.18 237,824 0.11 501 to 1,000 581 16.62 446,364 0.20 1,001 to 5,000 1,147 32.81 2,688,988 1.21 5,001 to 10,000 283 8.09 2,048,514 0.92 10,001 to 50,000 241 6.89 5,150,674 2.32 50,001 to 100,000 68 1.95 5,018,592 2.26 100,001 to 500,000 109 3.12 26,939,165 12.11 500,001 to 1,000,000 26 0.74 18,747,477 8.43 1,000,001 and above 56 1.60 166,099,390 72.44 3,496 100.00 222,376,988 100.00 Shareholder percentage by shareholder type Shareholder percentage by holding size Individuals Up to 500 Directors and connected persons 501 to 1,000 Insurance companies, nominees 1,001 to 5,000 and pension funds 5,001 to 10,000 Other limited companies 10,001 to 50,000 and corporate bodies 50,001 to 100,000 100,001 to 500,000 500,001 to 1,000,000 1,000,001 and above Financial calendar Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 7 March 2019 2017 18 final dividend record date 8 March 2019 AGM 29 March 2019 2017 18 final dividend payment date 4 April 2019 Announcement of 2019 half-year results July 2019 Announcement of 2019 final results February 2020 St. Modwen Properties PLC 194 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Website Shareholder security Information about St. Modwen, including this and prior years Shareholders are advised to be very wary of unsolicited mail or Annual Reports, results announcements and presentations, telephone calls offering free investment advice, offers to buy shares together with the latest share price information, is available at a discount or sell shares at a premium, or offers of free company on our website at www.
Such contact is typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders through operations commonly known Shareholding enquiries and information as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely All general enquiries concerning holdings of shares persuasive and often have websites to support their activities.
in St. Modwen should be addressed to our registrar: To avoid share fraud: Equiniti Keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct Aspect House Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you unexpectedly with Spencer Road an offer to buy or sell shares.
Lancing West Sussex Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person BN99 6DA and firm contacting you and then end the call.
1 Telephone: 0371 384 2198 44 0 121 415 7047 if calling from Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see outside the UK if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
A range of shareholder information is available online at Equinitis Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, website www.
Here you can also view information copying its website or giving you false contact details.
about your shareholding and obtain forms that you may need to Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want manage your shareholding, such as a change of address form to call it back.
or a stock transfer form Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact Dividend mandate details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
If you are a shareholder who has a UK bank or building society Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk account, you can arrange to have dividends paid direct via a bank consumers scams.
There is no fee for this service and notification confirming details of the dividend payment will be sent Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm 1 to your registered address.
Please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2198 you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or or go to www.
co. uk for further information.
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional Overseas dividend payment service advice before you hand over any money.
If you are resident outside the UK, Equiniti by arrangement with Citibank Europe PLC can provide dividend payments that are Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
automatically converted into your local currency and paid direct to If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using your bank account.
For more information on this overseas payment the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk consumers service please contact Equiniti on 44 0 121 415 7047 or download , where you can find out more an application form at www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Share dealing service If you are UK resident, you can buy and sell shares in St. Modwen If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should through Shareview Dealing, a telephone and internet-based service contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. provided by Equiniti Financial Services Ltd. For further details please visit www.
co. uk dealing or call Equiniti on 03456 037037.
Annual General Meeting Equiniti Financial Services Ltd is authorised and regulated by the The AGM will be held on Friday, 29 March 2019 in the Evolution Financial Conduct Authority.
Other brokers and banks or building Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology societies also offer share dealing facilities.
Park, Birmingham B31 2TS, commencing at 12.00 noon.
The notice of meeting, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be Electronic communications considered at the meeting, is set out on pages 188 to 191.
As an alternative to receiving documents in hard copy, shareholders can elect to be notified by email as soon as documents such as our Annual Report are published.
This notification includes details of where you can view or download the documents on our website.
Shareholders who wish to register for email notification can do so via Equinitis website at www.
1 Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 195 CONTACTS St. Modwen Properties PLC West and Wales Company No.
349201 Green Court Kings Weston Lane Head Office Avonmouth Park Point Bristol 17 High Street BS11 8AZ Longbridge 0117 316 7780 Birmingham B31 2UQ St. Modwen Homes 0121 222 9400 Two Devon Way Longbridge South East Birmingham 180 Great Portland Street B31 2TS London 0121 647 1000 W1W 5QZ 020 7788 3700 The Trentham Estate Stone Road Midlands and North Trentham Two Devon Way Stoke-on-Trent Longbridge ST4 8JG Birmingham 01782 645222 B31 2TS 0121 647 1000 Midlands and North Chepstow House Trident Business Park Daten Avenue Risley Warrington WA3 6BX 01925 825950 St. Modwen Properties PLC 196 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Disclaimer This Annual Report and Financial Statements has been prepared for the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements contains certain forward looking statements which, by their nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company are made in good faith based on the information available at the time the statement is made: speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
The Company does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reflect any changes in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
london Imagery used throughout the report has been taken by: Commercial Property Photography, Mathew Nichol Photography, Metro Photographic, Page Seven Photography, Roger Smith Aerial Photography, Will Slater, James Bastable, George Brooks, Aeroviews, Caroline Field.
The paper used in this report is elemental chlorine free and is FSC certified.
It is printed to ISO 14001 environmental procedures, using vegetable based inks.
The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certification is combined with a system of product labelling that allows consumers to readily identify timber based products from certified sources.
s st tm mo od dw we en n.. c co o. uk.
