Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The risk Our response New Covent Garden Market Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: liability There is a risk arising from the 1.
Understanding of valuation approach: With the 71.9m 2017: 78.9m, accounting estimate in relation to the assistance of our own major projects advisory specialists, representing the Groups share total costs expected to be incurred on undertaking meetings with the external quantity of the liability, included within the delivery of the replacement New surveyor expert to understand and assess the the Groups investment in VSM Covent Garden Market due to the reasonableness of the assumptions, such as cost inflation NCGM Limited of 15.2m judgements involved in assessing the and cash flow timings, and the methodologies used by 2017: 14.0m and the Groups appropriateness of the measurement the expert in arriving at the gross construction cost share of VSM NCGM Limiteds of the obligation, including the liability.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the profit for the year of 1.2m assumptions on quantum and timing of discount rate applied to the experts gross cost cash 2017: loss of 13.8m costs made by the external expert and flows.
This also included considering any reasonably the discount rate used by management Refer to page 82 Audit possible Brexit effects on the assumptions used in to come to the liability to be recorded Committee report, page 138 cash flow projections.
A ssessing experts credentials: Critically assessing the 160 to 162 financial independence, professional qualifications, competence disclosures.
and experience of the external expert used by the Group.
Sensitivity analysis: Assessing the sensitivity of the calculation of the liability to the discount rate by performing a sensitivity analysis on the rate applied to the experts gross cost cash flows.
We also re-performed the discounting calculation to confirm it had been calculated properly.
Assessing transparency: Critically assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the New Covent Garden Market liability.
Our results We found the liability recognised in respect of the New Covent Garden Market development to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 123
