Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 7.
Operating expenses continued 31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 374 379 Other premises and equipment costs 395 427 Rental of computers and equipment 21 17 790 823 General administrative expenses: UK bank levy 324 220 Provision for regulatory matters 900 Other general administrative expenses 1,702 1,787 2,926 2,007 Depreciation and amortisation: Property, plant and equipment: Premises 86 85 Equipment 94 85 Operating lease assets 304 328 484 498 Intangibles: Software 363 320 Acquired on business combinations 10 11 857 829 Total operating expenses 11,647 10,417 The UK bank levy is applied on the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
The rate of the levy for 2018 is 0.16 per cent for chargeable short-term liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.08 per cent generally applied to chargeable equity and long-term liabilities i. e. liabilities with a remaining maturity greater than one year.
The rates will be gradually reduced over the next two years, from 1 January 2021 they will be 0.10 per cent for short-term liabilities and 0.05 per cent for long-term liabilities.
In addition, the scope of the bank levy will be restricted to the balance sheet of UK operations only from that date.
8. Credit impairment Accounting policy Signi cant accounting estimates and judgements The Groups expected credit loss ECL calculations are outputs of complex models with a number of underlying assumptions.
The significant judgements in determining expected credit loss include: The Groups criteria for assessing if there has been a significant increase in credit risk: and Development of expected credit loss models, including the choice of inputs relating to macroeconomic variables The calculation of credit impairment provisions also involves expert credit judgement to be applied by the credit risk management team based upon counterparty information they receive from various sources including relationship managers and on external market information.
Details on the approach for determining expected credit loss can be found in the Credit risk section, under IFRS 9 Methodology page 174.
Estimates of forecasts of key macroeconomic variables underlying the expected credit loss calculation can be found with in the Risk review, Key assumptions and judgements in determining expected credit loss page 175.
Expected credit losses Expected credit losses are determined for all financial debt instruments that are classied at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income, undrawn commitments and financial guarantees.
An expected credit loss represents the present value of expected cash shortfalls over the residual term of a financial asset, undrawn commitment or financial guarantee.
A cash shortfall is the difference between the cash ows that are due in accordance with the contractual terms of the instrument and the cash ows that the Group expects to receive over the contractual life of the instrument.
Standard Chartered 254 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 8. Credit impairment continued Measurement Expected credit losses are computed as unbiased, probability-weighted amounts which are determined by evaluating a range of reasonably possible outcomes, the time value of money, and considering all reasonable and supportable information including that which is forward-looking.
For material portfolios, the estimate of expected cash shortfalls is determined by multiplying the probability of default PD with the loss given default LGD with the expected exposure at the time of default EAD.
There may be multiple default events over the lifetime of an instrument.
Further details on the components of PD, LGD and EAD are disclosed in the Credit risk section.
For less material Retail Banking loan portfolios, the Group has adopted simplied approaches based on historical roll rates or loss rates.
Forward-looking economic assumptions are incorporated into the PD, LGD and EAD where relevant and where they inuence credit risk, such as GDP growth rates, interest rates, house price indices and commodity prices among others.
These assumptions are incorporated using the Groups most likely forecast for a range of macroeconomic assumptions.
These forecasts are determined using all reasonable and supportable information, which includes both internally developed forecasts and those available externally, and are consistent with those used for budgeting, forecasting and capital planning.
To account for the potential non-linearity in credit losses, multiple forward-looking scenarios are incorporated into the range of reasonably possible outcomes for all material portfolios.
For example, where there is a greater risk of downside credit losses than upside gains, multiple forward-looking economic scenarios are incorporated into the range of reasonably possible outcomes, both in respect of determining the PD and where relevant, the LGD and EAD and in determining the overall expected credit loss amounts.
These scenarios are determined using a Monte Carlo approach centred around the Groups most likely forecast of macroeconomic assumptions.
The period over which cash shortfalls are determined is generally limited to the maximum contractual period for which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
However, for certain revolving credit facilities, which include credit cards or overdrafts, the Groups exposure to credit risk is not limited to the contractual period.
For these instruments, the Group estimates an appropriate life based on the period that the Group is exposed to credit risk, which includes the effect of credit risk management actions such as the withdrawal of undrawn facilities.
For credit-impaired financial instruments, the estimate of cash shortfalls may require the use of expert credit judgement.
As a practical expedient, the Group may also measure credit impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
The estimate of expected cash shortfalls on a collateralised financial instrument reects the amount and timing of cash ows that are expected from foreclosure on the collateral less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, regardless of whether foreclosure is deemed probable.
Cash ows from unfunded credit enhancements held are included within the measurement of expected credit losses if they are part of, or integral to, the contractual terms of the instrument this includes financial guarantees, unfunded risk participations and other non-derivative credit insurance.
Although non-integral credit enhancements do not impact the measurement of expected credit losses, a reimbursement asset is recognised to the extent of the expected credit losses recorded.
Cash shortfalls are discounted using the effective interest rate or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated creditimpaired instruments POCI on the financial instrument as calculated at initial recognition or if the instrument has a variable interest rate, the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
Instruments Location of expected credit loss provisions 1 Financial assets held at amortised cost Loss provisions: netted against gross carrying value 2 Financial assets held FVOCI Debt instruments Other comprehensive income FVOCI expected credit loss reserve 3 Loan commitments Provisions for liabilities and charges 3 Financial guarantees Provisions for liabilities and charges 1 Purchased or originated credit-impaired assets do not attract an expected credit loss provision on initial recognition.
An expected credit loss provision will be recognised only if there is an increase in expected credit losses from that considered at initial recognition 2 Debt and treasury securities classied as fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI are held at fair value on the face of the balance sheet.
The expected credit loss attributed to these instruments is held as a separate reserve within other comprehensive income OCI and is recycled to the profit and loss account along with any fair value measurement gains or losses held within FVOCI when the applicable instruments are derecognised 3 Expected credit loss on loan commitments and financial guarantees is recognised as a liability provision.
Where a financial instrument includes both a loan i. e. financial asset component and an undrawn commitment i. e. loan commitment component, and it is not possible to separately identify the expected credit loss on these components, expected credit loss amounts on the loan commitment are recognised together with expected credit loss amounts on the financial asset.
To the extent the combined expected credit loss exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, the expected credit loss is recognised as a liability provision Recognition 12 months expected credit losses stage 1 Expected credit losses are recognised at the time of initial recognition of a financial instrument and represent the lifetime cash shortfalls arising from possible default events up to 12 months into the future from the balance sheet date.
Expected credit losses continue to be determined on this basis until there is either a significant increase in the credit risk of an instrument or the instrument becomes creditimpaired.
If an instrument is no longer considered to exhibit a significant increase in credit risk, expected credit losses will revert to being determined on a 12-month basis.
255 Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 8. Credit impairment continued significant increase in credit risk stage 2 If a financial asset experiences a significant increase in credit risk SICR since initial recognition, an expected credit loss provision is recognised for default events that may occur over the lifetime of the asset.
significant increase in credit risk is assessed by comparing the risk of default of an exposure at the reporting date to the risk of default at origination after taking into account the passage of time.
significant does not mean statistically significant nor is it assessed in the context of changes in expected credit loss.
Whether a change in the risk of default is significant or not is assessed using a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, the weight of which depends on the type of product and counterparty.
Financial assets that are 30 or more days past due and not credit-impaired will always be considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk.
For less material portfolios where a loss rate or roll rate approach is applied to compute expected credit loss, significant increase in credit risk is primarily based on 30 days past due.
Quantitative factors include an assessment of whether there has been significant increase in the forward-looking probability of default PD since origination.
A forward-looking PD is one that is adjusted for future economic conditions to the extent these are correlated to changes in credit risk.
We compare the residual lifetime PD at the balance sheet date to the residual lifetime PD that was expected at the time of origination for the same point in the term structure and determine whether both the absolute and relative change between the two exceeds predetermined thresholds.
To the extent that the differences between the measures of default outlined exceed the dened thresholds, the instrument is considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk.
Qualitative factors assessed include those linked to current credit risk management processes, such as lending placed on non-purely precautionary early alert and subject to closer monitoring.
A non-purely precautionary early alert account is one which exhibits risk or potential weaknesses of a material nature requiring closer monitoring, supervision, or attention by management.
Weaknesses in such a borrowers account, if left uncorrected, could result in deterioration of repayment prospects and the likelihood of being downgraded.
Indicators could include a rapid erosion of position within the industry, concerns over managements ability to manage operations, weak deteriorating operating results, liquidity strain and overdue balances among other factors.
Credit-impaired or defaulted exposures stage 3 Financial assets that are credit-impaired or in default represent those that are at least 90 days past due in respect of principal and or interest.
Financial assets are also considered to be credit-impaired where the obligors are unlikely to pay on the occurrence of one or more observable events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset.
It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event but instead the combined effect of several events may cause financial assets to become credit-impaired.
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes observable data about the following events: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or borrower: Breach of contract such as default or a past due event: For economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, the lenders of the borrower have granted the borrower concession s that lenders would not otherwise consider.
This would include forbearance actions pages 160 to 162 : Pending or actual bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation to avoid or delay discharge of the borrowers obligation s: The disappearance of an active market for the applicable financial asset due to financial difficulties of the borrower: Purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount that reects incurred credit losses Irrevocable lending commitments to a credit-impaired obligor that have not yet been drawn down are also included within the stage 3 credit impairment provision to the extent that the commitment cannot be withdrawn.
Loss provisions against credit-impaired financial assets are determined based on an assessment of the recoverable cash ows under a range of scenarios, including the realisation of any collateral held where appropriate.
The loss provisions held represent the difference between the present value of the cash ows expected to be recovered, discounted at the instruments original effective interest rate, and the gross carrying value of the instrument prior to any credit impairment.
The Groups denition of default is aligned with the regulatory denition of default as set out in European Capital Requirements Regulation CRR178 and related guidelines.
Standard Chartered 256 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 8. Credit impairment continued Expert credit judgement For Corporate & Institutional, Commercial and Private Banking, borrowers are graded by credit risk management on a credit grading CG scale from CG1 to CG14.
Once a borrower starts to exhibit credit deterioration, it will move along the credit grading scale in the performing book and when it is classied as CG12 the credit assessment and oversight of the loan will normally be performed by Group Special Assets Management GSAM.
Borrowers graded CG12 exhibit well-dened weaknesses in areas such as management and or performance but there is no current expectation of a loss of principal or interest.
Where the impairment assessment indicates that there will be a loss of principal on a loan, the borrower is graded a CG14 while borrowers of other credit-impaired loans are graded CG13.
Instruments graded CG13 or CG14 are regarded as non-performing loans, i. e. stage 3 or credit-impaired exposures.
For individually significant financial assets within stage 3, GSAM will consider all judgements that have an impact on the expected future cash ows of the asset.
These include: the business prospects, industry and geo political climate of the customer, quality of realisable value of collateral, the Groups legal position relative to other claimants and any renegotiation forbearance modication options.
The difference between the loan carrying amount and the discounted expected future cash ows will result in the stage 3 credit impairment amount.
The future cash ow calculation involves significant judgements and estimates.
As new information becomes available and further negotiations forbearance measures are taken the estimates of the future cash ows will be revised, and will have an impact on the future cash ow analysis.
For financial assets which are not individually significant, such as the Retail Banking portfolio or small business loans, which comprise a large number of homogenous loans that share similar characteristics, statistical estimates and techniques are used, as well as credit scoring analysis.
Retail Banking clients are considered credit-impaired where they are more than 90 days past due.
Retail Banking products are also considered credit-impaired if the borrower les for bankruptcy or other forbearance programme, the borrower is deceased or the business is closed in the case of a small business, or if the borrower surrenders the collateral, or there is an identied fraud on the account.
Additionally, if the account is unsecured and the borrower has other credit accounts with the Group that are considered credit-impaired, the account may be also be credit-impaired.
Techniques used to compute impairment amounts use models which analyse historical repayment and default rates over a time horizon.
Where various models are used, judgement is required to analyse the available information provided and select the appropriate model or combination of models to use.
Expert credit judgement is also applied to determine whether any post-model adjustments are required for credit risk elements which are not captured by the models.
Modi ed financial instruments Where the original contractual terms of a financial asset have been modied for credit reasons and the instrument has not been derecognised an instrument is derecognised when a modication results in a change in cash ows that the Group would consider substantial, the resulting modication loss is recognised within credit impairment in the income statement with a corresponding decrease in the gross carrying value of the asset.
If the modication involved a concession that the bank would not otherwise consider, the instrument is considered to be credit-impaired and is considered forborne.
Expected credit loss for modied financial assets that have not been derecognised and are not considered to be credit-impaired will be recognised on a 12-month basis, or a lifetime basis, if there is a significant increase in credit risk.
These assets are assessed to determine whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk subsequent to the modication.
Although loans may be modied for non-credit reasons, a significant increase in credit risk may occur.
In addition to the recognition of modication gains and losses, the revised carrying value of modied financial assets will impact the calculation of expected credit losses, with any increase or decrease in expected credit loss recognised within impairment.
Forborne loans Forborne loans are those loans that have been modied in response to a customers financial difficulties.
Forbearance strategies assist clients who are temporarily in financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the client, the Group or a third-party including government sponsored programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions.
Forbearance may include debt restructuring such as new repayment schedules, payment deferrals, tenor extensions, interest only payments, lower interest rates, forgiveness of principal, interest or fees, or relaxation of loan covenants.
Forborne loans that have been modied and not derecognised on terms that are not consistent with those readily available in the market and or where we have granted a concession compared to the original terms of the loans are considered credit-impaired if there is a detrimental impact on cash ows.
The modication loss see Classication and measurement Modications is recognised in the profit or loss within credit impairment and the gross carrying value of the loan reduced by the same amount.
The modied loan is disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance credit-impaired.
Loans that have been subject to a forbearance modication, but which are not considered credit-impaired not classied as CG13 or CG14, are disclosed as Forborne not credit-impaired.
This may include amendments to covenants within the contractual terms.
