Nomination Committee report Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new 6.1 Introduction from Sir Brian Souter, appointments, the expected time commitment is agreed with the Stagecoach Group Chairman and Chairman of director and included in the letter of appointment.
No director of the the Nomination Committee Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The Nomination Committee has an important place in the governance The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on structure of the Stagecoach Group.
An effective board needs to maintain the Groups website at: balance over time, taking account of planned and unplanned changes to https: www.
com  and the changing needs of the business.
As Chairman of the Committee.
pdf Committee, I ensure that we regularly review our Board composition and ensure that the mix of skills available is appropriate.
We are aware that talented individuals can come from diverse backgrounds and we aim to 6.4 Board diversity promote diversity in the recommendations that we make to the Board.
The The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from being Stagecoach Group aims to identify and break down barriers to candidates comprised of talented people with a range of perspectives and from from diverse backgrounds throughout the business and ensure that its differing backgrounds.
It is our policy to maintain diversity on the Board talent pipeline reflects the diversity of the population.
with regards to aspects such as age, gender, or educational and We made a number of changes to our Board over the last two years and professional backgrounds.
The objectives of this diversity policy is to have been pleased with the overall balance of background and skills that maintain a Board with directors that collectively have a broad range of our new Board members have brought.
skills appropriate to pursuing the Groups strategy and objectives, to ensure that the Board benefits from a range of perspectives and We have reviewed the performance and length of service of our executive viewpoints and to ensure that no one director or viewpoint is dominant and non-executive directors and are pleased to be able to recommend all in the decision-making process.
of the Directors for re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
The diversity policy has been implemented by ensuring that the terms of reference of the Committee reflect diversity in the criteria for identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
The policy is also reflected in the discussions the Committee has with external search consultancies in any search process for a new director.
Sir Brian Souter We consider that our policy in respect of Board diversity has remained Chairman of the Nomination Committee effective during the financial year ended 28 April 2018.
In recent years, 28 June 2018 we have widened the range of skills and backgrounds that the Directors have by adding directors with greater expertise in digital, technology and marketing.
We have also increased the percentage of women on the 6.2 Composition of the Nomination Board and maintained that during the year ended 28 April 2018.
The Committee Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a listed The composition of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section company it has had at least one woman on its Board and for almost all of 4.9.
The Committee also invites other non-executive directors to attend the time since May 2001, at least two.
There are currently eleven its meetings from time to time.
directors of the Company, of whom three are women.
Women constitute 27% of the full Board and 38% of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
6.3 Operation of the Nomination Committee The Board aspires to maintain at least 25% female representation on the The Nomination Committee keeps under review the overall structure, Board in future, although the unexpected resignation of Julie Southern size and composition of the Board, and is responsible for evaluating the will cause the representation to fall to 20% from 31 August 2018.
In balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its addition to board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity committees.
Where appropriate, the Committee will suggest adjustments at all levels of the organisation, further detail of which is provided in to achieve that balance.
For a proposed appointment, the Committee will section 1.8.
prepare a description of the role and the attributes required of the candidates, which will include a job specification and the estimate of the 6.5 Succession planning arrangements time commitment expected.
In making any appointment, the Groups policy on directors having other significant commitments will be taken The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of into account and potential candidates will be asked to disclose their succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers Committee identifies and evaluates suitable candidates and makes to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The appointments process takes of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment diversity, and in identifying suitable candidates the Committee considers programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to candidates from a range of backgrounds.
become managing directors of individual business units, both in the UK and North America.
When seeking to appoint a new non-executive director, the Nomination Committee compiles a shortlist of potential new non-executive directors The Nomination Committee aims to ensure that appropriate succession by taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee Groups advisors and or appointed recruitment consultants.
and the Board seek to identify new directors and senior managers to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without The search for candidates for non-executive directors is undertaken on significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The the basis of search specifications that set out the key experience, skills Committee believes that it is important to develop and promote existing and attributes that had been identified by the Company.
Further detail of talent from within the organisation.
the processes for recent appointments is provided in the Groups 2016 and 2017 annual reports.
page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 47 The Chief Executive has established a talent group involving human resources, training and other professionals from within the Group.
The talent group is taking a lead role to further enhance the recruitment, retention and development of talented employees throughout the Group.
The Groups Directors bring a broad range of skills to the Board, including general management skills.
In its succession planning, the Committee considers the need to maintain and enhance this wide range of skills with particular emphasis on the following: Health and safety As is explained in section 1.8.
3, safety is at the heart of our business.
The Group has a separate Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and the Nomination Committee considers it appropriate that the Non-Executive Directors collectively have an understanding of health and safety matters.
A number of the Directors bring skills in these areas.
Transport sector The Committee considers it beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to collectively have experience of transport businesses to bring a sector-specific perspective on matters such as health and safety, transport operations, sector regulation and accounting.
Ray OToole brings considerable experience of bus, rail and the broader transport sector to the Board.
Will Whitehorn brings significant aviation and rail experience and Ann Gloag, as a co-founder of the Group, has significant public transport expertise.
Financial The Committee considers it essential that the NonExecutive Directors collectively have recent and relevant financial experience, in order for the Audit Committee to function effectively but also to bring broader financial insights to the Board.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a serving FTSE 100 finance director, Gregor Alexander brings substantial recent and relevant financial expertise.
Sir Brian Souter, Sir Ewan Brown and Julie Southern are qualified accountants, while James Bilefield has investment banking experience, bringing further financial insight to the Board.
Digital and technology In recent years, the Committee has identified the increasing importance of digital and technological opportunities and risks to the Groups strategy.
It identified a possible skills gap in this respect and considered that it would be desirable to enhance the collective experience of the Non-Executive Directors in those respects.
The appointments of James Bilefield and Karen Thomson to the Board have enhanced the Boards skills in these areas.
Listed company The Committee believes it is beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to have collective experience of other publically listed companies to contribute in the areas of corporate governance, management of potential conflicts, investor relations and regulatory compliance.
Each of Gregor Alexander, James Bilefield, Sir Ewan Brown, Ray OToole, Julie Southern, Karen Thomson, and Will Whitehorn serve or have served on the boards of other publically listed companies.
Regulatory The Group operates in regulated markets and the risk of regulatory change is a principal risk.
The Committee therefore values the Non-Executive Directors insight on regulatory matters.
A number of the Directors have significant skills on regulatory matters, including Ray OToole from the transport sector and the regulated water business, Will Whitehorn from the transport sector, Gregor Alexander from the regulated energy business and Sir Ewan Brown from his experience in banking and financial services.
Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
