notes to the Financial statements financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Statement of compliance Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Chartered The consolidated and Company financial statements have been PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and convention, as modified by the revaluation of cash-settled sharejointly controlled entities.
based payments, fair value through other comprehensive income, and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value The parent company financial statements present information about through profit or loss.
the Company as a separate entity.
Both the parent company financial statements and the Group Significant accounting estimates and judgements financial statements have been prepared and approved by the In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may The Groups estimates and assumptions are based on historical differ from IFRS published by the International Accounting Standards experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed Board IASB if a standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty and The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 judgement, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes for the of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of following areas: comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
Credit impairment Note 8 The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review form part Taxation Note 10 of these financial statements: Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value Note 13 a From the start of Risk profile section page 140 to the end of other Goodwill impairment Note 17 principal risks in the same section page 192 excluding: Provisions for liabilities and charges Note 24 Credit quality by geographic region, page 151 Retirement benefit obligations Note 30 Credit quality by industry, page 153 Investments in associates and joint ventures Note 32 Forborne and other modified loans by region page 162 Credit-impaired stage 3 loans by geographic region, page 164 IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements Industry and Retail products analysis by geographic region, As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the page 170 differences in accounting practices between EU-endorsed IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be Asset-backed securities, page 174 disclosed.
There would be no significant differences had these Country risk, page 180 accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
Risks not in VaR, page 182 Backtesting, page 182 Comparatives Prior period comparatives are presented on an IAS 39 Financial Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 183 Instruments: Recognition and Measurement basis Refer to the Liquidity coverage ratio LCR, page 185 31 December 2017 audited financial statements for the IAS 39 accounting policies.
Certain comparatives have been changed to Stressed coverage, page 185 align with current year disclosures.
The main changes are in respect Net stable funding ratio NSFR, page 186 of IFRS 9 see below.
Liquidity pool, page 186 Amortised cost reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending balances have been included with Loans and advances to Encumbrance, page 187 customers and Loans and advances to banks as appropriate.
Interest rate risk in the banking book, page 191 In addition, the comparatives for commitments disclosed in Note 25 Operational risk, page 192 Contingent liabilities and commitments have been restated, as a result of the availability of more reliable, centralised information Other principal risks, page 192 following the implementation of IFRS 9.
The ageing of commitments b Capital review: from the start of Capital Requirements Directive is now based on residual rather than original maturity.
The Risk CRD IV capital base to the end of Impact of IFRS 9 on CET1, profile has similarly been updated.
These changes have not resulted excluding capital ratios and risk-weighted assets RWA in any amendments to the reported income statement or balance sheet of the Group.
Standard Chartered 244 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 1.
Accounting policies continued New accounting standards adopted by the Group Going concern IFRS 9 Financial Instruments These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors On 1 January 2018, the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial on 26 February 2019.
The directors made an assessment of the Instruments, and the corresponding disclosure amendments to Groups ability to continue as a going concern and confirm they IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS 9 has been are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in endorsed by the EU, replaces IAS 39 and introduces: new business for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval requirements for the classification and measurement of financial of these financial statements.
For this reason, the Group continues instruments: the recognition and measurement of credit to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for preparing the impairment provisions: and provides for a simplified approach financial statements.
New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective The Group has further chosen: IFRS 16 Leases To continue to apply IAS 39 hedging requirements rather than The effective date of IFRS 16 is 1 January 2019 and the standard those of IFRS 9.
Hedging disclosures have, however, been was endorsed by the EU in November 2017.
IFRS 16 introduces updated to comply with new disclosure requirements a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than To early adopt the Prepayment Features with Negative 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is Compensation Amendments to IFRS 9 which was effective required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its Not to restate comparative periods on the basis that it is not obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries possible to do so without the use of hindsight forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17 Leases.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating The Risk profile has been updated in accordance with the collateral leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of and credit enhancement requirements of IFRS 7 Financial leases differently.
instruments: Disclosures, as amended for IFRS 9.
The extent of collateral as a mitigant has been determined with reference to both The significant judgements in the implementation were determining the drawn and undrawn components of an exposure.
Further, the if a contact contained a lease, and the determination of whether collateral balances align to the expected credit loss methodology the Group is reasonably certain that it will exercise extension options as this addresses the effects of collateral and other credit present in lease contracts.
The significant estimates were the enhancements on the amounts arising from expected credit losses.
determination of incremental borrowing rates in the respective economic environments.
The new IFRS 9 accounting policies are stated in the Risk review, Note 8 Credit impairment and Note 13 Financial instruments.
The impact of IFRS 16 on the Group is primarily where the Group is a lessee in property lease contracts.
The Group has elected to Information on the transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 is stated in adopt the simplified approach of transition and will not restate Note 41. comparative information.
On 1 January 2019 the Group will The Groups initial estimate of credit impairment provisions on recognise a lease liability, being the remaining lease payments adoption of IFRS 9 was $6,720 million.
Following refinement of the including extensions options where renewal is reasonably certain, Groups expected loss models, the estimate of the opening credit discounted using the Groups incremental borrowing rate at the date impairment provisions has been revised down by $222 million to of initial application in the economic environment of the lease.
The $6,498 million, and the net expected credit loss of $ 1,296 million corresponding right-of-use asset recognised will be the amount of adjusted against retained earnings has similarly decreased by the lease liability adjusted by prepaid or accrued lease payments $222 million to $ 1,074 million.
The relevant IFRS 9 disclosures in the related to those leases.
Any difference will be recognised in retained Risk review and in Note 41 Transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments earnings at the date of initial application.
The balance sheet increase have been re-presented accordingly.
as a result of recognition of the lease liability and right-of-use asset as of 1 January 2019 will be approximately $1.4 billion.
However, the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers actual impact may change as judgements and estimates are refined.
IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018 and has been endorsed by the EU, and replaces IAS 18 Revenue.
IFRS 15 is conceptually IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments similar to IAS 18, but includes more granular guidance on how to IFRIC 23 is effective from 1 January 2019 and has been endorsed recognise and measure revenue, and also introduces additional by the EU.
It clarifies the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes disclosure requirements.
The Group performed an assessment and is not expected to result in a material impact to the Groups of the new standard and concluded that the current treatment of financial report.
revenue from contracts with customers is consistent with the new Other amendments and clarifications made to existing standards principles and there is no material transitional impact.
that are not yet effective are not expected to result in a material impact on the Groups financial report.
