Strategic report 1.1 Introduction Stagecoach Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of a group of companies the Group principally involved in the sale and operation of passenger transport.
The directors of Stagecoach Group plc the Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 28 April 2018.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 3.
This Strategic report is a consolidated report relating to the Group as a whole.
It includes matters relating to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
1.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and for no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and to help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1.3 Overview of the year ended 28 April 2018 We are pleased with the Groups underlying financial performance for the year ended 28 April 2018, when compared to our start of year expectations.
We were however, surprised and disappointed by the Secretary of State for Transports decision to appoint an Operator of Last Resort to take over the operation of InterCity East Coast train services from our Virgin Trains East Coast business.
We are also disappointed to report significant exceptional costs in relation to that business.
Revenue for the year was 3,226.8m 2017: 3,941.2m, with the decline reflecting the end of our South West Trains franchise in August 2017.
Total operating profit before non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items was 179.9m 2017 restated: 185.1m.
Unadjusted operating profit for the year was 132.1m 2017: 47.3m.
Earnings per share before non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items adjusted earnings per share were 22.3p 2017 restated: 23.3p, with the year-on-year decrease mostly due to lower operating profit from our bus divisions.
The adjusted earnings per share of 22.3p is above our recent expectation, principally due to a lower than anticipated tax charge reflecting positive progress with the Groups tax affairs during the year.
Basic, unadjusted earnings per share increased to 12.3p 2017: 5.5p, and included exceptional charges relating to Virgin Trains East Coast that are explained below.
Although the consolidated net debt at 28 April 2018 is less than we expected, that largely reflects variations in the timing of UK rail cash flows and the balance at 28 April 2018 includes 84.5m of Virgin Trains East Coast cash.
We expect cash outflows in the year to 27 April 2019 in respect of the transfer of the East Coast rail business, further cash outflows in respect of the unwind of the expired South West Trains rail franchise and the reversal of cash flow timing benefits at East Midlands Trains.
However, we do expect non-rail net debt to reduce further.
We are proposing a final dividend of 3.9p 2017: 8.1p, which will result in a full year dividend of 7.7p 2017: 11.9p per share for the year ended 28 April 2018.
While our growth ambitions have not changed, we have taken the decision to rebase the dividend to what we view as a sustainable level and which is covered by the normalised, annual free cash flows from our non-rail operations.
We will look to at least maintain the rate of annual dividends at that rebased level of 7.7p per share.
The proposed final dividend of 3.9p per share is payable to shareholders on the register at 24 August 2018 and, if approved, will be paid on 3 October 2018.
Shareholders who wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan should elect to do so by sending their requests to the Companys registrars to arrive by 12 September 2018.
Our absolute focus remains on safety and operational excellence, which underpin our delivery of high quality public transport services.
Providing good value travel and investing in our people, vehicle fleet and new technology is central to enhancing our customers experience.
We also continue to take steps to improve the efficiency of our operations and maintain close control of costs.
We have again delivered high levels of customer satisfaction.
Our UK Bus business has achieved 90% satisfaction, according to the latest independent research published by consumer watchdog, Transport Focus, the biggest improvement in overall passenger satisfaction of any major UK operator.
In the UK rail sector, our train companies are also amongst the highest performing franchised operators, while our tram operations recorded their second highest customer satisfaction level on record at 95%.
In our core regional UK bus market, our pricing and network changes have delivered improved revenue trends.
We are pursuing a package of commercial and technology-led initiatives to drive growth and meet the evolving demand for transport linked to changes in working, social and retail patterns.
We have been successful in winning new business with Transport for London in the contracted London bus market.
Performance in our North America Division has been satisfactory and we have made further progress in delivering new contract wins.
Our actions in consolidating our megabus.
com network and developing the brands digital presence and wider product offer have helped us protect our market share in a competitive environment.
As previously announced, we have reported further, significant exceptional costs in the year ended 28 April 2018 in respect of our Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
Further details of these are provided in section 1.5.
We regret the losses the Group has experienced on the East Coast franchise, notwithstanding that these were significantly influenced by factors outside of our control.
We nevertheless continue to see good opportunities in UK rail.
The introduction by the Department for Transport of a new Forecast Revenue Mechanism FRM will result in the Department taking a greater share in revenue risk on new franchises and this reduction in revenue risk for train operators has been important in our decision to continue bidding for new UK rail franchises.
While we were surprised and disappointed by the decision of the Secretary of State for Transport to transfer responsibility for operating the East Coast train services from Virgin Trains East Coast to a publically owned company, we welcome the clarity that the decision brings.
Elsewhere in our rail portfolio, we have made significant progress over the last year.
A new contract has been agreed with the Department for Transport on Virgin Trains West Coast and we have secured the extension of our East Midlands Trains franchise.
We are pleased to have submitted our bid for the new South Eastern franchise and we are well advanced in developing our proposals for the West Coast Partnership franchise with input from key stakeholders.
We are also working on a further direct award franchise at East Midlands Trains as well as our shortlisted bid for the next competitively tendered East Midlands franchise.
Notwithstanding the contractual issues at Virgin Trains East Coast, we have continued to focus on providing a good, safe, reliable and value for money service to our customers as well as continuing to grow the business.
Reflecting the hard work of the Virgin Trains East Coast team and the continuing support of the Stagecoach and Virgin shareholders, we have started to see improving revenue trends.
Year-on-year revenue growth in the second half of the year ended 28 April 2018 of 4.3% compared to 3.0% in the first half and in the twelve weeks to 26 May 2018, revenue grew 5.6% from the equivalent prior year period.
