Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Glossary AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital BCBS or Basel Committee on Banking CET1 or Common Equity Tier 1 capital Supervision Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists of the Additional Tier 1 capital consists of A forum on banking supervisory matters common shares issued by the Group and instruments other than Common Equity which develops global supervisory standards related share premium, retained earnings, Tier 1 that meet the Capital Requirements for the banking industry.
Its members are accumulated other comprehensive income Regulation CRR criteria for inclusion in officials from 45 central banks or prudential and other disclosed reserves, eligible Tier 1 capital.
supervisors from 28 countries and territories.
non-controlling interests and regulatory Additional value adjustment adjustments required in the calculation of Basic underlying earnings per share Common Equity Tier 1.
EPS Represents the underlying earnings divided CET1 ratio Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB by the basic weighted average number approach A measure of the Groups CET1 capital as of shares.
The AIRB approach under the Basel framework is used to calculate credit risk Basis point bps Constant currency capital based on the Groups own estimates One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent : of prudential parameters.
Constant currency change is derived by 100 basis points is 1 per cent.
applying a simple translation of the previous Advances-to-deposits customer period functional currency number in each advances-to-deposits ADR ratio CRD IV or Capital Requirements entity using the current average and period Directive IV The ratio of total loans and advances to end US dollar exchange rates to the income customers relative to total customer A capital adequacy legislative package statement and balance sheet respectively.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio adopted by EU member states.
CRD IV demonstrates that customer accounts comprises the recast Capital Requirements Contractual maturity exceed customer loans resulting from Directive and the Capital Requirements Contractual maturity refers to the final emphasis placed on generating a high Regulation CRR.
The package implements payment date of a loan or other financial level of stable funding from customers.
the Basel III framework together with instrument, at which point all the remaining transitional arrangements for some of its outstanding principal and interest is due to Alternative performance measures requirements.
CRD IV came into force on be paid.
A financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or CIR or Cost to income ratio Capital-lite income cash flows, other than a financial measure Represents the proportion of total operating defined or specified in the applicable financial Comprises of income from products with low expenses to total operating income.
RWA consumption or products which are Underlying CIR represents the proportion of non-funding in nature.
total underlying expenses to total underlying ASEAN operating income.
Capital resources Association of South East Asian Nations Countercyclical capital buffer ASEAN, which includes the Groups Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after operations in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, regulatory adjustments.
The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB is Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and part of a set of macroprudential instruments, CGU or Cash-generating unit Vietnam.
designed to help counter procyclicality in the The smallest identifiable group of assets financial system.
CCyB as defined in the AUM or Assets under management that generates cash inflows that are largely Basel III standard provides for an additional independent of the cash inflows from other Total market value of assets such as capital requirement of up to 2.5 per cent of assets or groups of assets.
deposits, securities and funds held by risk-weighted assets in a given jurisdiction.
the Group on behalf of the clients.
The Bank of Englands Financial Policy Cash shortfall Committee has the power to set the CCyB Basel II The difference between the cash flows that rate for the United Kingdom.
Each bank must are due in accordance with the contractual calculate its institution-specific CCyB rate, The capital adequacy framework issued by terms of the instrument and the cash flows defined as the weighted average of the CCyB the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision that the Group expects to receive over the rates in effect across the jurisdictions in BCBS in June 2006 in the form of the contractual life of the instrument.
which it has credit exposures.
The  Convergence of Capital specific CCyB rate is then applied to a banks Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III An amount an individual is required to pay Counterparty credit risk back to the Group, which has to be returned The global regulatory standards on bank to the Group under certain circumstances.
The risk that a counterparty defaults before capital adequacy and liquidity, originally satisfying its obligations under a derivative, issued in December 2010 and updated in CRE or Commercial real estate a securities financing transaction SFT or June 2011.
In December 2017, the BCBS a similar contract.
published a document setting out the Includes office buildings, industrial property, finalisation of the Basel III framework.
medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, The latest requirements issued in December shopping centres, farm land, multi-family 2017 will be implemented from 2022. housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package of commercial real estate assets.
387 Supplementary information Glossary Cover ratio DVA or Debit valuation adjustment Deposits by banks An adjustment to the fair value of derivative Deposits by banks comprise amounts The ratio of impairment provisions for each contracts that reflects the possibility that the owed to other domestic or foreign credit stage to the gross loan exposure for each Group may default and not pay the full market institutions by the Group including securities stage.
For stage 3, the cover ratio is also value of contracts.
presented as the ratio of impairment provisions plus the realisable value of Debt securities Diluted underlying earnings per share collateral to the gross loan exposure.
EPS Debt securities are assets on the Groups Cover ratio after collateral balance sheet and represent certificates of Represents the underlying earnings divided indebtedness of credit institutions, public by the diluted weighted average number Represents the extent to which nonbodies or other undertakings excluding of shares.
performing loans are covered by both those issued by central banks.
impairment provisions, and collateral held Dividend per share against the exposure.
Debt securities in issue Represents the entitlement of each CCF or Credit conversion factor Debt securities in issue are transferrable shareholder in the share of the profits of the An estimate of the amount the Group expects certificates of indebtedness of the Group Company.
Calculated in the lowest unit of a customer to have drawn further on a facility to the bearer of the certificate.
These are currency in which the shares are quoted.
limit at the point of default.
This is either liabilities of the Group and include certificates Early alert, purely and non-purely prescribed by CRR or modelled by the bank.
precautionary CDS or Credit default swaps DTA or Deferred tax asset A borrowers account which exhibits risks or potential weaknesses of a material nature A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby Income taxes recoverable in future periods in requiring closer monitoring, supervision, or the credit risk of an asset the reference asset respect of deductible temporary differences attention by management.
Weaknesses is transferred from the buyer to the seller of between the accounting and tax base of in such a borrowers account, if left protection.
A credit default swap is a contract an asset or liability that will result in tax uncorrected, could result in deterioration of where the protection seller receives premium deductible amounts in future periods, the repayment prospects and the likelihood of or interest-related payments in return for carry-forward of tax losses or the carrybeing downgraded to credit grade 12 or contracting to make payments to the forward of unused tax credits.
When an account is on early alert, protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
it is classified as either purely precautionary Credit events normally include bankruptcy, DTL or Deferred tax liability or non-purely precautionary.
A purely payment default on a reference asset or Income taxes payable in future periods in precautionary account is one that exhibits assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
respect of taxable temporary differences early alert characteristics but these do not between the accounting and tax base of present any imminent credit concern.
If the Credit institutions an asset or liability that will result in taxable symptoms present an imminent credit An institution whose business is to receive amounts in future periods.
concern, an account will be considered for deposits or other repayable funds from classification as non-purely precautionary.
the public and to grant credits for its Default own account.
Financial assets in default represent those Effective tax rate that are at least 90 days past due in respect The tax on profit losses on ordinary Credit risk mitigation of principal or interest and or where the activities as a percentage of profit loss Credit risk mitigation is a process to mitigate assets are otherwise considered to be on ordinary activities before taxation.
potential credit losses from any given unlikely to pay, including those that are account, customer or portfolio by using a credit-impaired.
Encumbered assets range of tools such as collateral, netting Defined benefit obligation On-balance sheet assets pledged or used agreements, credit insurance, credit as collateral in respect of certain of the derivatives and guarantees.
The present value of expected future Groups liabilities.
payments required to settle the obligations CVA or Credit valuation adjustments of a defined benefit scheme resulting from EU or European Union An adjustment to the fair value of derivative employee service.
The European Union EU is a political and contracts that reflects the possibility that Defined benefit scheme economic union of 28 member states that the counterparty may default such that the are located primarily in Europe.
Group would not receive the full market value Pension or other post-retirement benefit of the contracts.
scheme other than a defined contribution Eurozone scheme.
Customer accounts Represents the 19 EU countries that have Defined contribution scheme adopted the euro as their common currency.
Money deposited by all individuals and companies which are not credit institutions A pension or other post-retirement benefit ECL or Expected credit loss including securities sold under repurchase scheme where the employers obligation is Represents the present value of expected agreement see repo reverse repo.
Such limited to its contributions to the fund.
cash shortfalls over the residual term of a funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups financial asset, undrawn commitment or balance sheet under customer accounts.
A debt or other financial obligation is Days past due considered to be in a state of delinquency One or more days that interest and or when payments are overdue.
Loans and principal payments are overdue based advances are considered to be delinquent on the contractual terms.
when consecutive payments are missed.
Standard Chartered 388 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARy INFoRMATIoN Expected loss Free deliveries IRB approach or internal ratings-based approach A transaction where a bank takes receipt The Group measure of anticipated loss of a debt or equity security, a commodity Risk-weighting methodology in accordance for exposures captured under an internal or foreign exchange without making with the Basel Capital Accord where capital ratings-based credit risk approach for capital immediate payment, or where a bank requirements are based on a firms own adequacy calculations.
It is measured as the delivers a debt or equity security, a estimates of prudential parameters.
Group-modelled view of anticipated loss commodity or foreign exchange without based on probability of default, loss given IMA or internal model approach receiving immediate payment.
default and exposure at default, with a one-year time horizon.
The approach used to calculate market risk Free funds capital and RWA with an internal market risk Exposures Free funds include equity capital, retained model approved by the PRA under the terms reserves, current year unremitted profits and of CRD IV CRR.
Credit exposures represent the amount lent capital injections net of proposed dividends.
to a customer, together with any undrawn IAS or International Accounting It does not include debt capital instruments, commitments.
Standard unrealised profits or losses or any nonEAD or Exposure at default cash items.
A standard that forms part of the International Financial Reporting Standards framework.
The estimation of the extent to which the Funded unfunded exposures Group may be exposed to a customer or IASB or International Accounting counterparty in the event of, and at the time Exposures where the notional amount of Standards Board of, that counterpartys default.
At default, the transaction is funded or unfunded.
An independent standard-setting body the customer may not have drawn the loan Represents exposures where a commitment responsible for the development and fully or may already have repaid some of the to provide future funding is made but funds publication of IFRS, and approving principal, so that exposure is typically less have been released not released.
interpretations of IFRS standards that are than the approved loan limit.
recommended by the IFRS Interpretations FVA or Funding valuation adjustments Committee IFRIC.
ECAI or External Credit Assessment FVA reflects an adjustment to fair value in Institution respect of derivative contracts that reflects IFRS or International Financial External credit ratings are used to assign the funding costs that the market participant Reporting Standards risk-weights under the standardised would incorporate when determining an A set of international accounting standards approach for sovereigns, corporates and exit price.
developed and issued by the International institutions.
The external ratings are from Accounting Standards Board, consisting of credit rating agencies that are registered or G-SIBs or Global Systemically Important Banks principles-based guidance contained within certified in accordance with the credit rating IFRSs and IASs.
All companies that have agencies regulation or from a central bank Global banking financial institutions issued publicly traded securities in the EU issuing credit ratings which is exempt from whose size, complexity and systemic are required to prepare annual and interim the application of this regulation.
interconnectedness mean that their distress reports under IFRS and IAS standards that or failure would cause significant disruption FCA or Financial Conduct Authority have been endorsed by the EU.
to the wider financial system and economic The Financial Conduct Authority regulates activity.
The list of G-SIBs is assessed under IFRIC the conduct of financial firms and, for certain a framework established by the FSB and the The IFRS Interpretations Committee firms, prudential standards in the UK.
In the EU, the G-SIB framework is supports the IASB in providing authoritative strategic objective to ensure that the relevant implemented via CRD IV and G-SIBs are referred to as Global Systemically Important guidance on the accounting treatment of markets function well.
issues not specifically dealt with by existing Forbearance IFRSs and IASs.
G-SIB buffer Forbearance takes place when a concession Investment grade A CET1 capital buffer which results from is made to the contractual terms of a loan in designation as a G-SIB.
The G-SIB buffer A debt security, treasury bill or similar response to an obligors financial difficulties.
is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent, instrument with a credit rating measured The Group classifies such modified loans as depending on the allocation to one of five by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
either Forborne not impaired loans or buckets based on the annual scoring.
Loans subject to forbearance impaired.
Leverage ratio The G-SIB buffer has been phased in by Once a loan is categorised as either of these, 1 January 2019.
In the EU, the G-SIB buffer it will remain in one of these two categories A ratio that compares Tier 1 capital to total is implemented via CRD IV as Global until the loan matures or satisfies the curing exposures, including certain exposures held Systemically Important Institutions G-SII conditions described in Note 8 to the financial off-balance sheet as adjusted by stipulated buffer requirement.
Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based backstop measure.
Forborne not impaired loans Interest rate risk Liquid asset ratio Loans where the contractual terms have The risk of an adverse impact on the been modified due to financial difficulties of Groups income statement due to changes Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
the borrower, but the loan is not considered in interest rates.
Liquid assets comprise cash less restricted to be impaired.
balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities.
389 Supplementary information Glossary Liquidation portfolio LGD or Loss given default NSFR or Net stable funding ratio The percentage of an exposure that a lender The ratio of available stable funding to A portfolio of assets which is beyond our expects to lose in the event of obligor default.
required stable funding over a one-year time current risk appetite metrics and is held horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
Malus a longer-term liquidity measure designed to LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio restrain the amount of wholesale borrowing An arrangement that permits the Group to and encourage stable funding over a prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of The ratio of the stock of high-quality liquid one-year time horizon.
an unvested variable remuneration award, assets to expected net cash outflows over due to a specific crystallised risk, behaviour, the following 30 days.
High-quality liquid Net tangible asset value per share conduct or adverse performance outcome.
assets should be unencumbered, liquid in Ratio of net tangible assets total tangible markets during a time of stress and, ideally, Master netting agreement assets less total liabilities to the number of be central bank eligible.
ordinary shares outstanding at the end of a An agreement between two counterparties Loan exposure reporting period.
that have multiple derivative contracts Loans and advances to customers with each other that provides for the net NPLs or non-performing loans reported on the balance sheet held at settlement of all contracts through a single amortised cost or FVOCI, non-cancellable payment, in a single currency, in the event An NPL is any loan that is more than 90 days credit commitments and cancellable of default on, or termination of, any one past due or is otherwise individually impaired.
credit commitments for credit cards and contract.
This excludes Retail loans renegotiated at or overdraft facilities.
after 90 days past due, but on which there Mezzanine capital has been no default in interest or principal Loans and advances payments for more than 180 days since Financing that combines debt and equity renegotiation, and against which no loss of This represents lending made under bilateral characteristics.
For example, a loan that principal is expected.
agreements with customers entered into in also confers some profit participation to the normal course of business and is based the lender.
Non-linearity on the legal form of the instrument.
MREL or minimum requirement for Non-linearity of expected credit loss occurs own funds and eligible liabilities Loan loss rate when the average of expected credit loss for a portfolio is higher than the base case Loan loss rate is total credit impairment for A requirement under the Bank Recovery median due to the fact that bad economic loans and advances to customers over and Resolution Directive for EU resolution environment could have a larger impact average loans and advances to customers authorities to set a minimum requirement for on ECL calculation than good economic own funds and eligible liabilities for banks, environment.
Loans to banks implementing the FSBs Total Loss Absorbing Capacity TLAC standard.
MREL is intended Amounts loaned to credit institutions Normalised items to ensure that there is sufficient equity and including securities bought under specific types of liabilities to facilitate an See Underlying earnings.
orderly resolution that minimises any impact operating expenses on financial stability and ensures the LTV or loan-to-value ratio continuity of critical functions and avoids Staff and premises costs, general and A calculation which expresses the amount exposing taxpayers to loss.
administrative expenses, depreciation of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of and amortisation.
Underlying operating the total appraised value of real property.
Net asset value NAV per share expenses exclude expenses as described The loan-to-value ratio is used in determining Ratio of net assets total assets less total in Underlying earnings.
A reconciliation the appropriate level of risk for the loan and liabilities to the number of ordinary shares between underlying and statutory therefore the correct price of the loan to outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
earnings is contained in Note 2 to the the borrower.
Net exposure Loans past due operating income or operating profit The aggregate of loans and advances to Loans on which payments have been due for customers loans and advances to banks Net interest, net fee and net trading income, up to a maximum of 90 days including those after impairment provisions, restricted as well as other operating income.
Underlying on which partial payments are being made.
balances with central banks, derivatives net operating income represents the income of master netting agreements, investment Loans subject to forbearance impaired line items above, on an underlying basis.
debt and equity securities, and letters of See Underlying earnings.
Loans where the terms have been credit and guarantees.
renegotiated on terms not consistent with oTC or over-the-counter derivatives current market levels due to financial NII or Net interest income A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is difficulties of the borrower.
Loans in this The difference between interest received on not exchange traded and that is valued using category are necessarily impaired.
See assets and interest paid on liabilities.
NIM or Net interest margin oCA or own credit adjustment Loss rate Net interest income divided by average An adjustment to the Groups issued debt Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate, interest earning assets.
designated at fair value through profit or loss developed using monthly write-off and that reflects the possibility that the Group may recoveries over the preceding 12 months default and not pay the full market value of and total outstanding balances.
Standard Chartered 390 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARy INFoRMATIoN Physical risks PRA or Prudential Regulation Authority Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV The Prudential Regulation Authority is the A framework for identifying and quantifying The risk of increased extreme weather events statutory body responsible for the prudential marginal types of market risk that are not including flood, drought and sea level rise.
supervision of banks, building societies, captured in the Value at Risk VaR measure Pillar 1 credit unions, insurers and a small number for any reason, such as being a far-tail risk of significant investment firms in the UK.
or the necessary historical market data not The first pillar of the three pillars of the The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
Basel framework which provides the approach to calculation of the minimum Repo reverse repo Roll rate capital requirements for credit, market A repurchase agreement or repo is a Uses a matrix that gives average loan and operational risk.
Minimum capital short-term funding agreement, which allows migration rate from delinquency states from requirements are 8 per cent of the a borrower to sell a financial asset, such period to period.
A matrix multiplication is Groups risk-weighted assets.
as asset backed securities or government then performed to generate the final PDs Pillar 2 bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of by delinquency bucket over different the agreement the borrower agrees to time horizons.
The second pillar of the three pillars of the repurchase the security at some later date, Basel framework which requires banks to usually less than 30 days, repaying the Secured fully and partially undertake a comprehensive assessment of proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the their risks and to determine the appropriate A secured loan is a loan in which the other end of the transaction buying the amounts of capital to be held against these borrower pledges an asset as collateral for security and agreeing to sell in the future, risks where other suitable mitigants are a loan which, in the event that the borrower it is a reverse repurchase agreement or not available.
defaults, the Group is able to take possession reverse repo.
All secured loans are considered fully Pillar 3 secured if the fair value of the collateral is Residential mortgage equal to or greater than the loan at the time The third pillar of the three pillars of the A loan to purchase a residential property of origination.
All other secured loans are Basel framework which aims to provide a which is then used as collateral to guarantee considered to be partly secured.
consistent and comprehensive disclosure repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives framework that enhances comparability the lender a lien against the property, and the Securitisation between banks and further promotes lender can foreclose on the property if the improvements in risk practices.
Securitisation is a process by which credit borrower does not repay the loan per the exposures are aggregated into a pool, agreed terms.
Private equity investments which is used to back new securities.
Under traditional securitisation transactions, Equity securities in operating companies RoE or Return on equity assets are sold to a structured entity SE generally not quoted on a public exchange.
Represents the ratio of the current years which then issues new securities to investors Investment in private equity often involves the profit available for distribution to ordinary at different levels of seniority credit tranching.
investment of capital in private companies.
shareholders to the weighted average This allows the credit quality of the assets to Capital for private equity investment is ordinary shareholders equity for the be separated from the credit rating of the raised by retail or institutional investors and reporting period.
Underlying return on equity originating institution and transfers risk to used to fund investment strategies such represents the ratio above using underlying external investors in a way that meets their as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, earnings.
Under synthetic securitisation growth capital, distressed investments transactions, the transfer of risk is achieved and mezzanine capital.
RoRWA or Return on risk-weighted by the use of credit derivatives or guarantees, assets and the exposures being securitised remain PD or Probability of default Profit before tax for year as a percentage of exposures of the originating institution.
PD is an internal estimate for each borrower RWA.
Profit may be statutory or underlying grade of the likelihood that an obligor Senior debt and is specified where used.
See RWA will default on an obligation over a given and Underlying earnings.
Debt that takes priority over other unsecured time horizon.
or otherwise more junior debt owed by the RoTE or Return on tangible equity issuer.
Senior debt has greater seniority in the Probability weighted Represents the ratio of the current years issuers capital structure after subordinated Obtained by considering the values the profit available for distribution to ordinary debt.
In the event the issuer goes bankrupt, metric can assume, weighted by the shareholders, to the weighted average senior debt theoretically must be repaid probability of each value occurring.
ordinary shareholders equity less the before other creditors receive any payment.
average goodwill and intangibles for the Profit loss attributable to ordinary SICR or Significant increase in reporting period.
Underlying return on shareholders credit risk tangible equity represents the ratio Profit loss for the year after non-controlling above using underlying earnings.
Assessed by comparing the risk of default of interests and dividends declared in respect See Underlying earnings.
an exposure at the reporting date to the risk of preference shares classified as equity.
of default at origination after considering the RWA or Risk-weighted assets passage of time.
PVA or Prudent valuation adjustment A measure of a banks assets adjusted An adjustment to CET1 capital to reflect the for their associated risks, expressed difference between fair value and prudent as a percentage of an exposure value value positions, where the application of in accordance with the applicable prudence results in a lower absolute standardised or IRB approach provisions.
carrying value than recognised in the financial statements.
391 Supplementary information Glossary Sovereign exposures Tier 2 capital Unlikely to pay Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall include Exposures to central governments and subordinated liabilities and related share placing the credit obligation on non-accrued central government departments, central premium accounts.
status: the recognition of a specific credit banks and entities owned or guaranteed adjustment resulting from a significant by the aforementioned.
TLAC or Total loss absorbing capacity perceived decline in credit quality subsequent Stage 1 to the Group taking on the exposure: selling An international standard for TLAC issued the credit obligation at a material credit by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs to have Assets have not experienced a significant related economic loss: the Group consenting sufficient loss-absorbing and recapitalisation increase in credit risk since origination and to a distressed restructuring of the credit capacity available in resolution, to minimise impairment recognised on the basis of obligation where this is likely to result in a impacts on financial stability, maintain the 12 months expected credit losses.
diminished financial obligation caused by the continuity of critical functions and avoid material forgiveness, or postponement, of Stage 2 exposing public funds to loss.
principal, interest or, where relevant fees: filing Assets have experienced a significant for the obligors bankruptcy or a similar order TSR or Total shareholder return increase in credit risk since origination in respect of an obligors credit obligation and impairment is recognised on the The total return of the Groups equity share to the Group: the obligor has sought or basis of lifetime expected credit losses.
price growth and dividends to investors.
has been placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would avoid or delay Stage 3 Transition risks repayment of a credit obligation to the Group.
Assets that are in default and considered The risk of changes to market dynamics or credit-impaired non-performing loans.
sectoral economics due to governments VaR or Value at Risk response to climate change.
A quantitative measure of market risk Standardised approach estimating the potential loss that will not UK bank levy In relation to credit risk, a method for be exceeded in a set time period at a set calculating credit risk capital requirements A levy that applies to certain UK banks and statistical confidence level.
using External Credit Assessment Institutions the UK operations of foreign banks.
The levy ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
is payable each year based on a percentage ViU or Value-in-Use In relation to operational risk, a method of the chargeable equities and liabilities on The present value of the future expected of calculating the operational capital the Groups consolidated balance sheet date.
cash flows expected to be derived from requirement by the application of a Key exclusions from chargeable equities and an asset or CGU.
supervisory defined percentage charge liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or to the gross income of eight specified guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on Write-downs business lines.
certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject After an advance has been identified as to netting.
impaired and is subject to an impairment Structured note provision, the stage may be reached whereby Unbiased An investment tool which pays a return linked it is concluded that there is no realistic to the value or level of a specified asset or Not overly optimistic or pessimistic, prospect of further recovery.
Write-downs will index and sometimes offers capital protection represents information that is not slanted, occur when, and to the extent that, the whole if the value declines.
Structured notes can weighted, emphasised, fide-emphasised or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, or otherwise manipulated to increase the commodities and foreign currency.
probability that the financial information will be XVA received favourably or unfavourably by users.
The term used to incorporate credit, debit Subordinated liabilities Underlying earnings and funding valuation adjustments to the Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or fair value of derivative financial instruments.
liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to The Groups statutory performance adjusted See CVA, DVA and FVA.
the claims of depositors and other creditors for restructuring and other items representing of the issuer.
profits or losses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions driven Tier 1 capital by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are significant The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 capital or material in the context of the Groups and Additional Tier 1 capital.
normal business earnings for the period, Tier 1 capital ratio and items which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskassessing performance period-by-period.
A reconciliation between underlying and statutory performance is contained in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Standard Chartered 392 Annual Report 2018 Designed and produced by Friend This document is printed on Revive 50 silk, Standard Chartered PLC.
com a paper containing 50% recycled bre 25% All rights reserved.
post-consumer and 25% pre-consumer and Printed by Park Communications on The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, 50% virgin bre sourced from well-managed, FSC certi ed paper.
its logo device and associated product brand responsible, FSC certi ed forests.
The pulp names are owned by Standard Chartered Park is an EMAS certi ed company and used in this product is bleached using an PLC and centrally licensed to its operating its Environmental Management System elemental chlorine free ECF process.
This document is fully recyclable.
Registered Of ce: 1 Basinghall Avenue, 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil London EC2V 5DD.
based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled Telephone 44 0 20 7885 8888. for further use and, on average, 99% of any Principal place of business in Hong Kong: waste associated with this production will 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, be recycled.
CONTACT INFORMATION Global headquarters Standard Chartered Group 1 Basinghall Avenue London, EC2V 5DD United Kingdom telephone: 44 0 20 7885 8888 facsimile: 44 0 20 7885 9999 Digital Annual Report and Accounts Shareholder enquiries ShareCare information website: sc.
com shareholders helpline: 0370 702 0138 ShareGift information website: ShareGift.
org helpline: 020 7930 3737 Registrar information UK Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 0370 702 0138 Hong Kong Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong website: computershare.
com hk investors Indian Depository Receipts Karvy Fintech Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32 Financial District Nanakramguda Hyderabad 500032, India Chinese translation Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong Register for electronic communications website: investorcentre.
LN HKSE Stock code: 02888 BSE NSE Stock code: STAN.
