Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 4.
Net fees and commission Accounting policy Fees and commissions charged for services provided or received by the Group are recognised on an accrual basis when the service has been provided or significant act performed.
Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package for itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate as for the other participants.
The Group can act as trustee or in other fiduciary capacities that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not assets and income of the Group.
The determination of the services performed for the customer, the transaction price, and when the services are completed depends on the nature of the product with the customer.
The main considerations on income recognition by product are as follows: Transaction Banking The Group recognises fee income associated with transactional Trade, Cash Management and Custody activities at the point in time the service is provided.
The Group recognises income associated with Trade contingent risk exposures such as letters of credit and guarantees and periodic Custody activities over the period in which the service is provided.
Payment of fees is usually received at the same time the service is provided.
In some cases, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group have annual upfront premiums, which are amortised on a straight-line basis to fee income over the year.
Financial Markets and Corporate Finance The Group recognises fee income at the point in time the service is provided.
Fee income is recognised for a significant non-lending service when the transaction has been completed and the terms of the contract with the customer entitle the Group to the fee.
Fees are usually received shortly after the service is provided.
Syndication fees are recognised when the syndication is complete.
Fees are generally received before completion of the syndication, or within 12 months of the transaction date.
Wealth Management Commissions for bancassurance activities are recorded as they are earned.
These commissions are received within a short time frame of the commission being earned.
Target-linked fees are accrued over the period in which the target is met, provided it is assessed as highly probable that the target will be met.
Cash payment is received at a contractually specified date after achievement of a target has been confirmed.
Upfront and trailing commissions for managed investment placements are recorded as they are confirmed.
Income from these activities is relatively even throughout the period, and cash is usually received within a short time frame after the commission is earned.
Retail Products The Group recognises most income at the point in time the Group is entitled to the fee, since most services are provided at the time of the customers request.
Credit card annual fees are recognised at the time the fee is received since in most of our retail markets there are contractual circumstances under which fees are waived, so income recognition is constrained until the uncertainties associated with the annual fee are resolved.
The Group defers the fair value of reward points on its credit card reward programmes, and recognises income and costs associated with fulfilling the reward at the time of redemption.
31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Fees and commissions income 4,029 3,942 Fees and commissions expense 537 430 Net fees and commission 3,492 3,512 Total fee income arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $1,478 million 31 December 2017: $1,067 million and arising from trust and other fiduciary activities is $144 million 31 December 2017: $130 million.
Total fee expense arising from financial instruments that are not fair valued through profit or loss is $143 million 31 December 2017: $74 million and arising from trust and other fiduciary activities is $27 million 31 December 2017: $22 million.
