Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 8. Credit impairment continued Write-offs of credit-impaired instruments and reversal of impairment To the extent a financial debt instrument is considered irrecoverable, the applicable portion of the gross carrying value is written off against the related loan provision.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the credit impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the credit impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised credit impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the provision account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Loss provisions on purchased or originated credit-impaired instruments POCI The Group measures expected credit loss on a lifetime basis for POCI instruments throughout the life of the instrument.
However, expected credit loss is not recognised in a separate loss provision on initial recognition for POCI instruments as the lifetime expected credit loss is inherent within the gross carrying amount of the instruments.
The Group recognises the change in lifetime expected credit losses arising subsequent to initial recognition in the income statement and the cumulative change as a loss provision.
Where lifetime expected credit losses on POCI instruments are less than those at initial recognition, then the favourable differences are recognised as impairment gains in the income statement and as impairment loss where the expected credit losses are greater.
Improvement in credit risk curing A period may elapse from the point at which instruments enter lifetime expected credit losses stage 2 or stage 3 and are reclassied back to 12-month expected credit losses stage 1.
For financial assets that are credit-impaired stage 3, a transfer to stage 2 or stage 1 is only permitted where the instrument is no longer considered to be credit-impaired.
An instrument will no longer be considered credit-impaired when there is no shortfall of cash ows compared to the original contractual terms.
For financial assets within stage 2, these can only be transferred to stage 1 when they are no longer considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk.
Where significant increase in credit risk was determined using quantitative measures, the instruments will automatically transfer back to stage 1 when the original PD based transfer criteria are no longer met.
Where instruments were transferred to stage 2 due to an assessment of qualitative factors, the issues that led to the reclassication must be cured before the instruments can be reclassied to stage 1.
This includes instances where management actions led to instruments being classied as stage 2, requiring that action to be resolved before loans are reclassied to stage 1.
A forborne loan can only be removed from the disclosure cured if the loan is performing stage 1 or 2 and a further two-year probation period is met.
In order for a forborne loan to become performing, the following criteria have to be satisfied: At least a year has passed with no default based upon the forborne contract terms The customer is likely to repay its obligations in full without realising security The customer has no accumulated impairment against amount outstanding Subsequent to the criteria above, a further two-year probation period has to be fullled, whereby regular payments are made by the customer and none of the exposures to the customer are more than 30 days past due.
31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Net credit impairment against profit on loans and advances to banks and customers 607 1,365 Net credit impairment against profit or loss during the period relating to debt securities 7 20 Net credit impairment relating to financial guarantees and loan commitments 39 23 1 Credit impairment 653 1,362 1 No material POCI assets 9.
Other impairment Accounting policy Refer to the below referenced notes for the relevant accounting policy 31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Impairment of goodwill Note 17 320 Impairment of xed assets Note 18 150 137 1 Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity shares 16 Impairment of other intangible assets Note 17 46 23 Other impairment Other 14 3 Other impairment 182 179 182 499 1 31 December 2017 equity shares impairment disclosed on an IAS 39 basis.
31 December 2018 equity shares disclosed on an IFRS 9 basis.
Under IFRS 9, equity shares are either measured at FVTPL or FVOCI with fair value movements recognised accordingly Standard Chartered 258 Annual Report 2018
