Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 25.
Contingent liabilities and commitments continued The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
1 31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Contingent liabilities Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 36,511 31,429 Other contingent liabilities 5,441 6,210 41,952 37,639 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 3,982 5,808 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend One year and over 71,467 77,033 Less than one year 37,041 30,122 Unconditionally cancellable 39,220 40,823 151,710 153,786 1 Contingent liabilities and commitments have been restated, as a result of the availability of more reliable, centralised information following the implementation of IFRS 9.
The ageing of commitments is now based on residual rather than original maturity Capital commitments 1 Contracted capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts 450 468 1 of which: the Group has commitments totalling $439 million to purchase aircraft for delivery in 2019 31 December 2017: $458 million.
Pre-delivery payments of $5 million have been made to date in respect of these aircraft The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint ventures is $0.2 billion 31 December 2017: $0.2 billion.
As set out in Note 26, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of certain legal and regulatory matters for which it is not practicable to estimate the financial impact as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes.
Legal and regulatory matters Accounting policy Where appropriate, the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an outflow of economic resources embodying economic benefits will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The uncertainties inherent in legal and regulatory matters affect the amount and timing of any potential outflows with respect to which provisions have been established.
Claims and other proceedings The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions and is subject to regulatory investigations and proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
Apart from the matters described below, the Group currently considers none of these claims, investigations or proceedings to be material.
However, in light of the uncertainties involved in such matters there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters currently not considered to be material may not ultimately be material to the Groups results in a particular reporting period depending on, among other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter s and the results otherwise reported for such period.
2012 Settlements with certain US authorities In 2012, the Group reached settlements with certain US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Fed, Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs with each of the Department of Justice DOJ and the New York County District Attorneys Office DANY and a Settlement Agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control together, the Settlements and together the foregoing authorities, the US authorities.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms of these Settlements include a number of conditions and ongoing obligations with regard to improving sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, banking transparency requirements, training measures, audit programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with the NYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent monitor Monitor.
In December 2014, the Group announced that the DOJ, DANY and the Group had agreed to a three-year extension of the DPAs, resulting in the subsequent retention of the Monitor to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the Groups sanctions compliance programme.
The DPAs and the term of the independent monitor have been subject to subsequent extensions and currently expire on 31 March 2019.
305 notes to the Financial statements financial statements 26.
Legal and regulatory matters continued Claims and other proceedings continued 2014 Settlement with NYDFS In August 2014, the Group announced that it had reached a final settlement with the NYDFS regarding deficiencies in the AML transaction surveillance system in its New York branch the Branch.
The system, which is separate from the sanctions screening process, is one part of the Groups overall financial crime controls and is designed to alert the Branch to unusual transaction patterns that require further investigation on a post-transaction basis.
The settlement provisions included a civil monetary penalty of $300 million: various remediation requirements and the appointment of the Monitor which eventually expired on 31 December 2018.
In November 2018, the Group announced it had agreed to engage an independent consultant selected by the NYDFS for up to one year with a possible extension for up to one additional year to provide guidance in connection with tasks necessary to complete the remediation contemplated by the 2012 and 2014 Consent Orders.
2019 Settlement relating to FX trading In January 2019, the Group reached a settlement with the NYDFS regarding past control failures and improper conduct related to the Groups FX trading and sales business between 2007 and 2013.
As part of this settlement the Group agreed to pay a civil monetary penalty of $40 million to the NYDFS.
A provision has been made in these financial statements for the previously disclosed investigations relating to the FX trading issues including the January 2019 settlement with the NYDFS.
Investigations into legacy financial crime control issues The Group has received a decision notice from the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA relating to the previously disclosed investigation by the FCA concerning the Groups historical financial crime control issues, and is considering its options in relation to this decision notice, including the possibility of an appeal.
The decision notice imposes a penalty of 102 million net of early settlement discount on the Group.
This investigation had been focused on the effectiveness and governance of those historical financial crime controls from 2009 through 2014 within the correspondent banking business carried out by the Groups London branch, particularly in relation to the business carried on with respondent banks from outside the European Economic Area, and the effectiveness and governance of those controls in one of the Groups overseas branches and the oversight exercised at Group level over those controls.
The Group continues its discussions relating to the potential resolution of an investigation by the US authorities relating to historical violations of US sanctions laws and regulations.
In contrast to the 2012 settlements, which focused on the period before the Groups 2007 decision to stop doing new business with known Iranian parties, this investigation is focused on examining the extent to which conduct and control failures permitted clients with Iranian interests to conduct transactions through Standard Chartered Bank after 2007.
The vast majority of the issues under investigation pre-date 2012 and none occurred after 2014.
The resolution of the US investigation may involve a range of civil and criminal penalties including substantial monetary penalties combined with other compliance measures such as remediation requirements and or business restrictions.
A provision has been made in these financial statements for the penalty in the FCA decision notice and potential penalties relating to the investigation by the US authorities.
This provision reflects managements current view of the appropriate level of provision.
Resolution of the US investigation and the FCA process might ultimately result in a different level of penalties.
Other proceedings Since November 2014, seven lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York against a number of banks including Standard Chartered Bank on behalf of plaintiffs who are, or are relatives of, victims of various terrorist attacks in Iraq.
Five of the lawsuits were filed in late December 2018.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendant banks aided and abetted the unlawful conduct of US sanctioned parties in breach of the US Anti-Terrorism Act.
The lawsuits are at an early procedural stage, with motions to dismiss pending in two of the seven lawsuits.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not possible for the Group to predict the outcome of these lawsuits.
The Director of Public Prosecutions DPP and related agencies in Kenya are investigating Standard Chartered Kenya Limited SCBK and other banks in connection with the alleged theft of funds from Kenyas State Department of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs.
This investigation follows fines being imposed on those banks, including SCBK, by the Central Bank of Kenya regarding adequacy of controls related to the processing of the allegedly stolen funds.
The DPP has announced that it has received recommendations from the Kenyan Directorate of Criminal Investigations that charges should be brought against a number of banks, including SCBK, bank officials and other individuals.
The Group does not know whether any charges will be brought, but there may be penalties or other financial consequences for SCBK in connection with this investigation.
