159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:01 Page 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 28 Consolidated cash flows continued d Non cash transactions The principal non cash transactions were the acquisition of property, plant and equipment using new hire purchase and finance leases.
During the year, the Group entered into hire purchase and finance lease arrangements in respect of new assets with a total capital value at the inception of the contracts of 27.2m 2017: 56.6m.
After taking account of deposits paid up front and other financing transactions, new hire purchase and finance lease liabilities of 27.2m 2017: 47.8m were recognised.
Note 29 Contingencies Contingent liabilities i Under UK Rail franchise agreements, the Group and its joint venture, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited, have agreed with the Department for Transport annual amounts receivable or payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises for future periods.
Under these agreements, there is a requirement to comply with a number of obligations.
Failure to comply with these obligations would be a breach of the relevant franchise.
The UK Department for Transport has notified the Companys subsidiary, East Coast Main Line Company Limited trading as Virgin Trains East Coast, that it considers that subsidiary to be in default of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise agreement.
That could, in certain circumstances, give the Department for Transport the right to claim against East Coast Main Line Company Limited and its immediate parent company, Inter City Railways Limited including in respect of future premia payments foregone.
As at 28 April 2018, liabilities have been recorded for amounts payable to the Department for Transport in lieu of the outstanding performance bond relating to Virgin Trains East Coast and any residual net assets of Virgin Trains East Coast.
No further liability has been recorded in the consolidated financial statements in relation to potential claims by the Department for Transport in respect of default of the franchise agreement, because the Directors currently do not expect further amounts to be payable.
Under certain circumstances following a breach by the Group of one or more of its rail franchise agreements, the Department for Transport has the right to terminate the relevant franchises.
The financial effect on the Group of a termination of one or more franchises would depend on which, if any, of the Groups contingent liabilities that the Department for Transport sought to call.
As at 28 April 2018, the capital at risk of the Group in this respect was: Virgin Trains East Midlands East Coast Trains Total m m m Actual liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheet Performance bonds 21.0 21.0 Contingent liabilities Season ticket bonds 5.1 7.2 12.3 Performance bonds 15.0 15.0 Parent company guarantees to suppliers 6.7 3.0 9.7 Undrawn committed loan facilities 25.0 25.0 Capital at risk as at 28 April 2018 32.8 50.2 83.0 Cash Cash in train operating companies 84.5 86.7 171.2 Pro forma impact on net debt 117.3 136.9 254.2 Deferred income in respect of season tickets sold by train operating companies is recognised as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
The season ticket bond amounts shown above relate to bonds issued by financial institutions in favour of the Department for Transport.
The parent company, Stagecoach Group plc, has indemnified the financial institutions in respect of those season ticket bonds.
The season ticket bonds are intended to provide cover for the deferred income.
No liability has been recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of the season ticket bonds because the deferred income has already been recognised as liabilities and it is not expected that the Group would be required to satisfy both the deferred income liabilities and the bond amounts.
Notwithstanding the termination of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, the accounting for Virgin Trains East Coast season ticket deferred income and season ticket bonds is as described here.
To the extent that any of the above liabilities and contingent liabilities in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast crystallise the Group is contractually entitled to recover 10% of any such payment from Virgin Holdings Limited.
The Group has credit exposure to Virgin Holdings Limited in this regard.
Except for the Virgin Trains East Coast performance bond, the Group considers the likelihood of the capital at risk items crystallising as being low.
However, if all of the liabilities and contingent liabilities had crystallised and the franchises terminated at 28 April 2018, the Group would have needed to have financed 83.0m 2017: 384.5m and, subject to any amounts it recovered from Virgin Holdings Limited, its net debt would have increased by this amount.
In addition, some of the cash in the train operating companies would be transferred with the franchises.
There is no recourse to the Group in respect of any liabilities or contingent liabilities of Virgin Rail Group.
Under the terms of the franchise agreements, other than with the UK Department for Transports consent, train operating companies can only distribute cash out of retained earnings and only to the extent they do not breach the financial covenants specified in applicable contracts.
