159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in respect of the group of companies headed by Stagecoach Group plc.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited liability company limited by shares.
It is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its registered number is SC100764 and its registered address is 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth, Perthshire, PH1 5TW.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
As explained in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the definition of adjusted earnings has been changed to include software amortisation.
The accounting policies have otherwise been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by i the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and ii financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the presentation currency of the Group, and the functional currency of the Company.
All values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The Group reports its annual results based on a financial year ending on the Saturday nearest to 30 April.
This report therefore sets out the Groups results for the period from 30 April 2017 to 28 April 2018.
New accounting standards adopted during the year The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 30 April 2017: Amendments to IAS 7, Disclosure Initiative, Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Amendments to IAS 12, Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses None of these have materially impacted the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: Effective for annual periods International Accounting Standards and Interpretations beginning on or after Amendments to IAS 19 Plan amendment, curtailment or settlement 1 January 2019 Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2019 Amendments to IFRS 2 Clarification of classification and measurement of share based payment transactions 1 January 2018 Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment features with negative compensation 1 January 2019 Amendments to IFRS 4 and IFRS 9 Amendments regarding the interaction of IFRS 4 and IFRS 9 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance contracts 1 January 2021 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle 1 January 2018 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle 1 January 2019 Amendments to IAS 40 Amendments to clarify transfers of property to, or from, investment property 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration 1 January 2018 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Amendments to references to conceptual framework in IFRS 1 January 2020 Not yet adopted for use in the European Union.
i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for year beginning on 29 April 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is the IASBs replacement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard includes requirements for recognition and measurement, impairment, derecognition and general hedge accounting.
The Directors believe that the Groups current hedge relationships will continue to qualify as continuing hedges upon adopting the new standard and there will not be a significant change to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
As part of our impact assessment, we have updated our internal policy documentation where appropriate to ensure compliance with IFRS 9.
Implementing IFRS 9 is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Under IFRS 9, the Group will elect to recognise its available for sale investments at fair value through other comprehensive income.
At 28 April 2018, the carrying value was 2.7m.
IFRS 9 introduces expanded disclosure requirements.
These are expected to change the extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments, particularly in the year of adoption of the new standard.
ii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for year beginning on 29 April 2018 The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity will recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration payment to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In both our rail and bus divisions, performance obligations are clear and transaction prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
During the year ended 28 April 2018, we have performed an impact assessment, which has included reviewing submissions from each Stagecoach Group plc | page 81 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued ii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for year beginning on 29 April 2018 continued division and inspecting selected contracts.
The Directors do not expect IFRS 15 to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, however we would anticipate the reclassification of certain customer compensation amounts which are currently treated as operating costs.
Under IFRS 15, customer compensation is treated as a reduction in revenue, and for the year ended 28 April 2018, we expect that applying IFRS 15 would have resulted in a decrease in revenue of 15.6m, offset by an equivalent reduction in operating costs.
ln the UK, the Group receives concessionary revenue from public bodies, such as local authorities, for transporting disabled and older people free of charge to the passenger.
Although the revenue is received from a party other than the person receiving the service, the Group will account for such revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 with the performance obligation being the provision of the free travel to those eligible.
iii IFRS 16 Leases effective for year beginning on 28 April 2019 IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases, and establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Applying that model, a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest.
The Directors expect the application of IFRS 16 to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the accounting for the Groups rolling stock operating lease commitments will be affected by the application of the new standard.
On adopting IFRS 16, the Group expects to recognise substantial new assets and new liabilities in respect of those leases currently classified as operating leases.
The Group's assessment of the impact of this standard is ongoing and it intends to adopt the new standard for the financial year ending 2 May 2020.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union requires directors to make judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
The Directors believe that the judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of judgement.
The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
a Judgements Paragraph 122 of International Accounting Standard 1 requires disclosure of significant judgements made in applying an entity's accounting policies.
"Following correspondence with the Financial Reporting Council on the Group's accounting for its participation in the Railways P ension Scheme ""RPS"", the Directors have determined that they should disclose the related judgements applied."
"Accounting for participation in Railways Pension Scheme As disclosed in note 23, the Group applies a ""franchise adjustment"" to the amounts recorded in the balance sheet for the RPS."
This represents the remaining element of the franchisee's 60% share of the IAS 19 deficit or surplus after determining the amount of any deficits the Group is required to fund or surplus it is entitled to recover over the remaining franchise period.
This adjustment can give rise to a net pension asset, representing the expected excess of the income statement expense under IAS 19 for service cost and net interest over the contributions payable over the remainder of the franchise.
The economic benefit of the asset is expected to be realised through the lower cash contributions over the remaining period of the franchise, and therefore upon the expiry of each of the Group's rail franchises, there will be no pension asset or liability remaining.
This judgement is consistent with the industrywide accounting treatment for the RPS that was agreed on adoption of IFRS in 2005.
An alternative assessment of the RPS may conclude that such a net pension asset does not give rise to any economic benefits under IAS 19, on the basis that no refund is available from the RPS and there will not be any reduction in future contributions to the RPS.
Adopting this alternative assessment would result in such an asset being restricted to Nil under the asset ceiling under IFRIC 14.
This would have an impact on the amounts recognised in the Group's consolidated balance sheet, with 4.2m relating to net RPS assets 2017: 45.1m out of total net pension liabilities of 142.2m 2017: 232.5m based on the Groups application of its existing accounting treatment.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Paragraph 125 of International Accounting Standard 1 requires disclosure of key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The Directors consider the following to be the most significant sources of estimation uncertainty.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial performance and or financial position.
Pensions As in previous years, the determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for defined benefit pension schemes is dependent on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
The Directors assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and future expense.
The pensions assumptions may vary due to actual changes in market conditions following the balance sheet date but IAS 19 requires the assumptions to be set based on the market conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The pensions assumptions are also affected by judgements the Directors are required to make on matters that cannot be directly observed from market prices such as life expectancies, future pay increases, harder to value assets and the criteria for bonds to be included in the population from which the discount rate is determined.
Note 23 f provides information on the sensitivity of pension benefit obligations to changes in assumptions.
North America impairment In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the value in use being the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the asset or CGU.
Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
The forecast of future cash flows and the estimation of the discount rate involve a significant degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
The Directors consider that the greatest source of estimation uncertainty in this area relates to the non-current assets of the North America Division.
The financial performance of that Division has been less favourable than was assumed in estimating its value in use as at 29 April 2017.
On the other hand, the Division has growth plans in place that are reflected in its forecast cash flows from 29 April 2018 and since 29 April 2017, the corporate tax rate in the page 82 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 83 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued North America impairment continued US has been reduced.
The value in use as at 28 April 2018 has been estimated to exceed the net realisable value and the carrying value of the Divisions non-current assets.
However, there are alternative but still reasonably possible assumptions that when applied result in a value in use estimate below the carrying value.
The most critical estimates relate to the forecast growth in the Divisions earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation over the next few years, the discount rate and the long-term growth in the Divisions net cash flows.
The carrying value of non-current assets as at 28 April 2018 was US$501.7m and the estimated value in use was US$689.0m but alternative assumptions could result in a material impairment loss and it is possible that such a loss could arise within the next year.
Note 11 provides information on the sensitivity of the value in use calculation and related assumptions.
Rail contractual positions The Groups current and former train operating companies are party to various contractual and regulatory arrangements typical of the UK rail sector.
Consistent with the sector, these contractual arrangements can be often complex and be open to legal interpretation.
These include arrangements with the Department for Transport, Network Rail, Transport for London and other train operators.
These arrangements give rise to estimation uncertainty in determining the carrying value of receivables and payables in respect of these arrangements.
The degree of estimation uncertainty has increased since 29 April 2017 due to increased uncertainty arising from the end of the South West Trains franchise in August 2017 and the end of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise in June 2018, and the Directors have therefore added rail contractual positions to the disclosure of key estimation uncertainties.
The Directors estimate that the carrying value of the net payables in respect of rail contractual positions as at 28 April 2018 could require adjustment by up to 15m in the year ending 27 April 2019, which due to unrecognised contingent assets is more likely to result in a future gain rather than a loss.
Uncertain tax positions The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost to the Group may differ from the estimates.
Tax accounting judgements have been made in respect of tax losses incurred by Virgin Trains East Coast, the financing of and transactions with overseas i. e. non-U K operations and losses incurred by overseas operations in the ordinary course of business.
In particular, a potential tax asset of 33.8m has not been recognised in respect of accumulated tax losses relating to Virgin Trains East Coast as at 28 April 2018 because the contractual arrangements with government in relation to Virgin Trains East Coast give rise to significant doubt over the Groups ability to access and utilise these losses.
In addition, potential tax assets of 106.7m as at 28 April 2018 have not been recognised in respect of accumulated losses of overseas businesses due to significant uncertainty on the extent to which sufficient taxable profits will be available against which to utilise those losses in a manner acceptable to the relevant tax authorities.
The Directors consider those to represent the most significant estimation uncertainties in respect of uncertain tax positions.
Further information on uncertain tax positions is provided in note 8.
Insurance provisions The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third party insurance policies.
"An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the ""excess"" or ""deductible"" on insurance policies."
Provision is made for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the balance sheet date.
Given the varying factors that ultimately determine the cost of a claim, it is difficult to provide precise sensitivity analysis on the amount of the insurance provision.
However, based on analysis undertaken by independent actuaries and an analysis of the historic volatility of estimates of claims costs, the Group considers it unlikely that the estimated insurance provision as at 28 April 2018 will require adjustment in the year ending 27 April 2019 by more than 10m.
c Others The Directors considered whether other judgements and estimates made in preparing the financial statements represent critical judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty.
In particular, the Directors considered the significant issues or judgements examined by the Audit Committee see section 5.4.
1 of this Annual Report, the areas of key audit focus see section 5.4.
2 of this Annual Report and the risks of material misstatement that the auditors identified as having the greatest effect on their overall audit strategy see section 10 of this Annual Report.
While matters of audit and Audit Committee focus are not necessarily limited to critical judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty, they do overlap.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures made up to a period broadly one year in length that ends on the Saturday nearest to 30 April.
The consolidated income statement includes the results of businesses purchased from the effective date of acquisition and excludes the results of disposed operations and businesses sold from the effective date of disposal.
Non-controlling interest represents the portion of earnings and equity attributable to a third party shareholder of a subsidiary of the Group.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity where the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Where a business is acquired, the purchase method also known as the acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of the subsidiaries and other businesses.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given up, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill.
Costs attributable to the acquisition are expensed to the consolidated income statement.
The non-controlling interest in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast is shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 10% of the carrying value of the related assets and liabilities, and was initially recognised at 10% of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 83 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Subsidiaries and joint ventures continued ii Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control with other investors.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint venture which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
The Groups reported interest in joint ventures includes goodwill on acquisition.
The Group applies its own accounting policies and estimates when accounting for its share of joint ventures making appropriate adjustments where necessary, having due regard to all relevant factors.
Presentation of income statement and exceptional items Where applicable, income statement information has been presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to determine more readily the impact of non-software intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items on the results of the Group, improve comparability of the Groups results with those of peer companies and respond to analysts who have requested reporting on that basis.
Exceptional items are defined in note 33.
Revenue The Group has a number of revenue streams, as set out as part of the description of the Groups business model in section 1.4.
1 of the Strategic report contained in this Annual Report.
Revenue presented in the income statement represents gross revenue and excludes payments received on account.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue that is receivable from individuals or groups of individuals to travel on our transport services is accounted for with the objective that the revenue is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs.
This can involve some estimation for example, revenue from the sale of season tickets and travelcards, that entitle individuals to use certain of our services during a specified period of time, is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income statement over the period covered.
The recognition of season ticket and travelcard income is generally recorded on a straight-line basis over the applicable period.
In UK Rail, travel on a train operating companys services can be sold by other train operating companies as well as other travel retailers.
Furthermore, certain tickets for train travel can be sold which provide the holder with a choice of train operators to travel with.
In light of those factors, our UK Rail revenue includes amounts receivable from individuals or groups of individuals to travel on UK rail services that is attributed to train operating companies by the Railway Settlement Plan Limited RSP.
RSP administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry and allocates revenue to operators principally on agreed models of route usage.
Similar revenue allocations apply to rail services in the Transport for London area and in respect of multi-operator ticket schemes in which some of our UK bus and tram businesses participate.
Procedures exist to allow operators to challenge the appropriateness of revenue allocation where the revenue allocated to the Group is subsequently adjusted, the effect of the adjustment is recognised in the income statement in the period in which we are made aware of it.
Where an adjustment results in additional revenue being attributed to the Group, the additional revenue is recognised when the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and it is highly probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Amounts that are receivable from government bodies in respect of travel by individuals on our transport services is also recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs.
Such amounts are included in revenue because they represent payments for transport services provided.
This can involve some estimation for example, revenue receivable in respect of UK concessionary travel schemes can involve some negotiation with relevant public authorities on the amount of revenue due and or be subject to adjustment based on the levels of concessionary travel across a number of operators.
Revenue is recognised based on the Groups best estimates of the amounts receivable in respect of travel prior to the balance sheet date.
Revenue receivable from government bodies and others as payment to us for operating transport services under contract is recognised in the income statement in the period that the contracted services relate to.
In general, the revenue in respect of any particular period can be clearly determined from the contract.
Where there is a contingent element to contract revenue for example, where additional amounts are payable or receivable based on the punctuality of transport services and or other operational measures, revenue is recognised based on the applicable operational measures when the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and it is highly probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Franchise payments payable to or receivable from the UK Department for Transport under rail franchise agreements are recognised as operating costs or other operating income in the income statement.
Further details on the recognition of such amounts are included below under the section headed Government grants.
Under the contractual terms of its franchise agreements to operate rail services, the Group has revenue sharing arrangements with the Department for Transport.
As a result of these arrangements, the Group may be liable to make payments to the Department for Transport or receive amounts from the Department for Transport.
The arrangements vary by franchise.
The Group recognises revenue share amounts payable or receivable in the income statement in the same period in which it recognises the related revenue.
Revenue share amounts payable or receivable if any are treated as operating costs or other operating income.
Other subsidies we receive from government bodies to financially support the operation of transport services they consider to be socially desirable is included in revenue and recognised in the income statement in the period that the subsidy relates to.
This includes tender revenue receivable to financially support certain bus services the Group operates in the UK.
page 84 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 85 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Revenue continued Revenue that is incidental to the Groups principal activity of providing transport services is reported as miscellaneous income.
Such income is recognised as the income is earned and may include income from: commissions for selling travel on other operators transport services: undertaking maintenance work on other operators vehicles: selling advertising space on vehicles and premises we operate: access income for others to use railway stations and depots that we operate: selling fuel to other transport operators: property rental: and Network Rail in respect of UK railway operating performance regimes see performance incentive payments section below.
The Groups regional UKBus operations receive Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG which is essentially a rebate of fuel tax.
BSOG is recognised within operating costs as part of the net fuel costs of the Group.
Finance income is recognised under the effective interest method as interest accrues.
Performance incentive payments Performance incentive payments received from or made to Network Rail by the Group in respect of rail operational performance are recognised in the same period that the performance relates to and are treated as operating costs or other operating income.
Government grants Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions.
Government grants relating to costs are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs they are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Amounts are held as deferred grant income within trade and other payables.
Revenue grants receivable and franchise premia amounts payable in respect of the operation of rail franchises in the UK are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related revenue or expenditure is recognised in the income statement or where they do not relate to any specific revenue or expenditure, in the period in respect of which the amount is receivable or payable.
These premia payments and rail franchise grants are classified within operating costs and other operating income.
Share based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Groups equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is determinable from the Companys quoted share price at the time of the award.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
The movement in this cumulative expense is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled by the Group or the holder, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
At each balance sheet date, the liability recognised is based on the fair value of outstanding awards ignoring non-market based vesting conditions at the balance sheet date, the period that fell prior to the balance sheet date and managements estimate of the likelihood and extent of non-market based vesting conditions being achieved.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it generally expects to settle such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
The Company can choose to settle awards under the Executive Participation Plan in either cash or equity, although it generally expects to settle such awards in equity.
The awards under the Plan can also be structured as deferred shares or share options with a zero exercise price.
The Company intends the awards to operate in substance as deferred shares such that, subject to fulfilling the service condition, each participant receives actual shares on the applicable vesting date.
Awards under the Executive Participation Plan are accounted for as equity-settled transactions see above.
Employment taxes Liabilities are recognised for employment taxes principally, employers national insurance liabilities payable by the Group on share based payments.
The liability for employment taxes is calculated at the balance sheet date with reference to the fair value of the related share based payments at that date.
In the case of cash-settled share based payments, the fair value is the pre-tax amount recorded in the balance sheet.
Movements in the liabilities for employment taxes on share based payments are charged or credited to the income statement.
Operating profit Consolidated operating profit is stated inclusive of restructuring costs and the share of after-tax results of joint ventures but before finance income, finance costs, non-operating exceptional items and taxation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 85 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where a change in accounting policy requires adjustment of prior year amounts, the taxation effects of the change of accounting policy are treated as part of the prior year adjustment.
Where a change in accounting policy in a subsidiarys own financial statements for example, on a transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Policies to International Financial Reporting Standards materially affects the tax amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements, the change is treated as a prior year adjustment and is not included as a component of the current periods tax expense.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, which for this purpose has been identified as the Board of Directors.
Foreign currency translation The financial statements of foreign operations are maintained in the functional currencies in which the entities transact business.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into sterling using rates of exchange at the relevant balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net assets and results of foreign operations, together with exchange differences arising on net foreign currency borrowings and foreign currency derivatives, to the extent they hedge the Groups investment in foreign operations, are recognised as a separate component of equity being the translation reserve.
Further information on the Groups accounting policy on hedges of net investments in a foreign entity is provided on page 90.
On disposal of a foreign subsidiary or an interest in a joint venture or associate, the amount of any exchange differences relating to the relevant entity that has been deferred in the translation reserve is recognised in the income statement within the reported gain or loss on disposal.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
The principal rates of exchange applied to the consolidated financial statements were: 2018 2017 US Dollar: Year end rate 1.3797 1.2937 Average rate 1.3380 1.2937 Canadian Dollar: Year end rate 1.7745 1.7689 Average rate 1.7072 1.7036 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the fair value of such net assets.
The fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill and acquired customer contract provisions on the acquisition of a business are amortised to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prior to 1 May 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased on 30 April 2004 but goodwill amortisation expensed prior to 1 May 2004 was not reversed.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 May 2004 is measured at the amount recognised under the Groups previous accounting framework, UKGAAP.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 30 April 1998 and earlier periods was written off directly to equity in accordance with the UK accounting standards then in force.
Under IFRS 1 and IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against equity.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from the combination.
The non-current assets of cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the non-current assets is less than their carrying amount, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where goodwill other than that already written off directly to equity forms part of a cash generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the disposed operation when determining the overall gain or loss on disposal.
page 86 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 87 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding goodwill and other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business combination are initially capitalised at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost recognised is the aggregate amount paid plus the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if i the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and ii its fair value can be measured reliably, and are subsequently measured at fair value at acquisition less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated to write-off the cost or fair value at acquisition as the case may be of each asset over their estimated useful lives shown below, and is recorded in operating costs in the income statement.
Amortisation of intangible assets relating to customer contracts is amortised based on the pattern of the consumption of economic benefits obtained from the relevant contract.
Amortisation on other intangible assets is calculated on the straight-line method.
Intangible assets relating to rail franchises of a finite duration are amortised over the expected life of the franchise.
Customer contracts over the life of the contract 1 to 5 years for current contracts Right to operate rail franchises over the expected life of the franchise 10 years from February 2007 to February 2017 for South West Trains franchise, 3 years and 5 months from October 2015 to March 2019 for East Midland Trains franchise and previously 8 years and 1 month from March 2015 to March 2023 for Virgin Trains East Coast franchise until fully impaired as at 29 April 2017 Software costs 2 to 7 years Where the life of a contract or rail franchise is shortened or extended, the useful economic lives of any related intangible assets are reviewed, the intangible assets are reviewed for impairment and the remaining carrying value of each asset is amortised over its revised, remaining economic life.
New contracts and franchises are not treated as extensions of existing arrangements even when they cover the same business operations as expiring contracts and franchises.
Marketing costs incurred during the start-up phase of a new activity are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment acquired as part of a business combination is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition and is subsequently measured at fair value on acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost, fair value at acquisition or deemed cost of each asset to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Heritable and freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties period of lease IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Passenger Service Vehicles PSVs and transportation equipment 7 to 16 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at least annually and, where applicable, adjustments are made on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal.
An item on which no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset is impaired if it is continued to be used by the Group.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO or average cost method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Contract provisions A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for any contract that is onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous where it is probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are less than the unavoidable costs under that contract.
Determining the amount of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future financial performance and applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
The recognition of a contract provision other than a provision arising from a business combination is charged to the consolidated income statement.
Losses that subsequently arise on that contract are treated as a utilisation of the provision to the extent they have been provided for.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 87 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Contract provisions continued The amount of any contract provision or potential contract provision is re-assessed at each balance sheet date.
Any increase or decrease required to the amount of the provision is charged or credited to the consolidated income statement.
Pre-contract costs The costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred, except when at the time the costs are incurred it is probable that a contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an intangible asset and are charged to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
In general, costs incurred in bidding for a UKrail franchise prior to the signing of a franchise agreement are expensed because until an agreement is signed, the Directors do not consider a franchise award to be probable.
Costs incurred after an agreement is signed, but before the franchise period commences, are generally capitalised as intangible assets.
Hire purchase and lease obligations Assets acquired under hire purchase and finance lease arrangements, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Fixed lease payments are apportioned between the finance costs and the reduction of the lease liability, so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance costs are charged directly against income and are reported within finance costs in the consolidated income statement.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and other similar contracts are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful economic lives.
Assets capitalised under hire purchase contracts are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Rentals under operating leases are generally charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
However, contingent rentals, principally being rental adjustments related to inflation indices, are accounted for in the period they are incurred.
The principal restriction on assets held under finance lease or hire purchase agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.
Restructuring provisions Provisions for restructuring are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of associated costs can be made.
Insurance The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee claims.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made on a discounted basis for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimate of the balance sheet insurance provision is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but for which claims have not yet been reported to the Group.
The provision is set after taking account of advice from third party actuaries.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group contributes to a number of pension schemes.
In respect of defined benefit schemes, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst scheme assets are recorded at market value.
In relation to each scheme, any recognised net asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the scheme or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the scheme liabilities.
The service costs of defined benefit schemes are spread systematically over the working lives of employees and included within operating profit.
Scheme administration expenses are also included within operating profit.
Net interest expense or income is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset or liability and included within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses include the difference between the actual return on assets net of investment administration costs and taxes, such as amounts levied by the UKPension Protection Fund and the discount rates applied to the assets.
Life expectancies are considered when retirement benefit obligations are calculated.
A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for each scheme and updated annually using independent actuaries following the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related obligations.
Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the year.
The liability or asset recognised for the relevant sections of the Railways Pension Scheme represents only that part of the net deficit or surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over the life of the franchise to which the section relates.
Where the award of a new rail franchise to the Group results in it assuming a net pension liability, a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in obtaining the right to operate the franchise.
When a pension asset is assumed, a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised.
The intangible asset or deferred income balance is amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected life of the related franchise.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group pays contributions to separately administered pension schemes.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Financial instruments The disclosure of the accounting policies that follow for financial instruments are those that apply under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified, as appropriate, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments or as available for sale.
They include available for sale investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued income, trade receivables, other receivables and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: page 88 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 89 Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets classified as held for trading and other assets designated as such on inception are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss where the assets meet the criteria for such classification.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables: Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are discounted to the present value at the point they are first recognised and are subsequently amortised to the invoice amount by the payment due date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered in evaluating whether a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets: Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the above categories.
These are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the asset is derecognised or until the asset is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals, loans from joint ventures, loans from non-controlling interest, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Such liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Other: All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to appropriate market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges, when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: Cash flow hedges, when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity.
Net gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all other derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, are taken to the income statement.
These may arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied because they are either not designated or not effective as hedging instruments from an accounting perspective.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Fair value hedges: For fair value hedges, the carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses attributable to the risk being hedged: the derivative is remeasured at fair value and gains and losses from both the derivative and the hedged item are taken to the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
Cash flow hedges: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For cash flow hedges of forecast fuel purchases, the transfer is to operating costs within the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recorded in the statement of comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement immediately.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 89 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments continued Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: For hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold.
Non-derivative financial liabilities, such as foreign currency borrowings, can be designated as hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity and are subject to the same accounting requirements as derivative hedges of a net investment in a foreign entity.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet and cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities at the balance sheet date of twelve months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective yield method subject to any adjustments in respect of fair value hedges.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
Interest on borrowings to purchase property, plant and equipment is expensed in the income statement.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer or rollover settlement for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.
Share capital and dividends Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company purchases its own ordinary shares, the consideration paid, including any attributable incremental external costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the Groups financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Groups shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
