Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 Opinion In our opinion: Stagecoach Group plcs Consolidated financial statements the consolidated financial statements and separate financial statements of the parent the Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 28 April 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the consolidated and Company financial statements of Stagecoach Group plc, which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Company balance sheet Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Company statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet statement of financial position Related notes 1 to 15 to the Company financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows Related notes 1 to 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated and Company financial statements in the United Kingdom, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions Relating to Principal Risks, Going Concern and Viability Statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which ISAs UK requires us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: The disclosures in the annual report set out in section 1.4.
5 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The Directors confirmation set out in section 4.12.3 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The Directors statement set out in section 3.11 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: Whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or The Directors explanation set out in section 3.11 of the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
SC100764 continued Overview of Our Audit Approach Key audit matters Termination of Virgin Trains East Coast franchise Valuation of provision for insurance claims Valuation of pension liabilities and pension assets Carrying value of North America goodwill Revenue recognition arising from management override of controls Fraud Risk Accounting for rail contractual positions Liability for uncertain tax positions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 16 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of adjusted profit before tax, 99% of revenue and 88% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 6.8m represents 4.7% of adjusted profit before tax PBT.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Our response to the risk Risk to the Audit Committee Termination of Virgin Trains East Coast franchise We read the announcements and related Management has reflected the statements made by the Secretary of State for outcome of the signed transfer Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
1 Transport to independently assess the impact agreements with the UK Department and notes 4, 15 and 22 of the consolidated financial of the termination on the consolidated financial for Transport and the Operator of Last statements.
Resort in its assessment of the On 5 February 2018 the Secretary of State for carrying values of Virgin Train East We read the signed transfer agreements dated Transport confirmed that the Virgin Trains East Coast Coasts other assets and liabilities as 21 June 2018 setting out the principles on franchise had breached a key financial covenant and at 28 April 2018, and has made which the business of the franchise would that he would need to, in the very near future, end appropriate adjustments to those transfer to the Operator of Last Resort and the contract and put in place a successor arrangement considered whether the approach adopted by carrying values.
He also stated that Stagecoach management to assess the carrying value of The 59.1m onerous contract would be held to all of its contractual obligations in assets and liabilities was appropriate.
provision as at 28 April 2018 has been full.
On 16 May 2018 he confirmed that the contract In advance of the signing of the transfer appropriately determined based on would terminate on 24 June 2018 and that agreements we reviewed correspondence the amount by which the forecast responsibility for operating the train services would between the Department for Transport and unavoidable costs from 29 April 2018 Stagecoach to assess the evidence supporting transfer to an Operator of Last Resort.
of meeting the obligations under the managements approach.
contracts i. e. the Virgin Trains East The significant risk arises due to the complexities in Coast franchise agreement and We specifically focused on an assessment of agreeing franchise transfer agreements and transfer related contracts exceed the the transfer values of assets and liabilities values for those assets transferring to the new expected economic benefits to be through discussions with management and an operator.
understanding of the signed terms of the The transfer agreements were signed on 21 June 2018, transfer.
We concluded that management has thereby reducing the audit risk.
While the terms of the We tested managements calculation of the appropriately recognised the Virgin transfer of the business, as well as certain assets and onerous contract provision to ensure its Trains East Coast performance bond liabilities, to the public sector company have now measurement is in accordance with IAS 37 of 21.0m within the onerous been agreed, the transfer values have not yet been Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and contract provision as at 28 April 2018 agreed for all of the individual balances.
in accordance with the requirements agreed terms any residual net assets of Virgin Trains of IAS 37.
We considered the impact of the termination of East Coast are payable to the UK Department for the franchise on contingent liabilities at 28 April We are satisfied with the adequacy of Transport.
2018. disclosure within the financial statements.
We considered whether it was appropriate to account for the crystallisation of the performance bond as a liability prior to 28 April 2018.
We assessed the adequacy of disclosure within the financial statements.
page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 69 Key observations communicated Our response to the risk Risk to the Audit Committee Valuation of provision for insurance claims We gained an understanding of the key Based on our consideration of the external actuarial specialists report controls and processes in place to assess Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
1 insurance claims and related provisions.
and available evidence, we can and notes 1 and 22 to the consolidated financial conclude that the methodology, statements.
We have evaluated the competence, assumptions and approach used by capabilities and objectivity of managements As at 28 April 2018 the Group recognised total managements specialist are external actuarial specialists.
insurance provisions for amounts payable on appropriate.
We obtained and read the insurance individual claims amounting to 153.8m 2017: We did not note any material documents to ensure all relevant terms have 156.8m.
exceptions based on testing been appropriately considered in the provision The Group protects against the cost of claims in performed over the accuracy and calculation.
respect of bus traffic incidents and related employee completeness of data provided to the Through the involvement of our insurance claims through third party insurance policies.
actuarial specialists, we evaluated the these policies, the Group has exposure primarily We did not note any material appropriateness of the processes, relating to an excess it is responsible for paying per exceptions based on our testing of methodologies and assumptions used by the claim.
The Group provides for this exposure on a the underlying claims and settlement external actuarial specialists to arrive at the discounted basis.
The provisions in the UK and North America are based We are satisfied that the valuation of We performed audit sample testing over the on an independent actuarial computation of the the insurance provision is materially underlying data maintained by the Group and correct.
expected settlement of known claims together with an provided to the actuarial specialists for use in estimate for claims that have not yet been reported to their actuarial calculation of the provision, We are satisfied with the adequacy of the Group but relate to incidents occurring prior to the including historic claims data, movements in disclosure within the financial balance sheet date, with adjustment by management the current period, current and historic statements.
to reflect its view of volatility in actuarial estimates payment data, and open claims at year-end.
Testing to confirm completeness of provisions was performed, including a review of news The significant risk arises due to the inherent articles related to Stagecoach incidents and uncertainty in actuarial assessments and the level of testing of payments made following the year management judgement exercised in determining the end.
appropriate level of volatility adjustment.
In assessing the appropriateness of the assumptions used, we reviewed recent settlement history on comparable claims and obtained relevant correspondence.
We tested settlements in the year by comparing the amount provided to the amount settled, following up on unusual fluctuations.
We have challenged managements assumptions and methodology in relation to the volatility in actuarial estimates adjustment by comparing managements adjustment to benchmarking analysis prepared by our insurance actuarial specialists and considering other factors e. g. claims experience.
We assessed the appropriateness of managements volatility adjustment and related calculations to ensure that the recorded provision is in accordance with IAS37 and based on a consistent methodology between the UK and the US.
Following our audit procedures, management reassessed the value of the volatility adjustment, taking into consideration claims development trends.
All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was undertaken by the Group engagement team, with the assistance of insurance actuarial specialists.
We have concluded that the pension Valuation of pension liabilities and pension assets We understood and walked through managements process and methodology for liability is materially correct and that Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
1 calculating the pension liability and for managements judgements in relation and notes 1, 7 and 23 to the consolidated financial determining the valuation of the pension to the underlying actuarial statements.
assets, for each of the SPS, RPS and LGPS assumptions were appropriate.
The Group makes provision for the net pension pension schemes.
We have concluded that the valuation liabilities of its defined benefit pension schemes.
We evaluated the competence and objectivity of pension scheme assets are At 28 April 2018 the Group had recognised a net of managements external actuarial experts.
Gross Pension Liabilities: We are satisfied with the adequacy of The significant risk relates to the potential With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, disclosure within the financial misstatement of the gross pension liabilities of we corroborated key assumptions including statements.
3,054.2m 2017 - 4,257.7m due to the significant the discount rate, life expectancies of scheme Stagecoach Group plc | page 69 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 70 10.
SC100764 continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee judgements being exercised by management in members and inflation rates using external determining the appropriate underlying actuarial third party data and independently assessed assumptions.
the assumptions to allow us to determine whether the Groups assumptions are within We also considered the valuation of the gross pension an appropriate range.
scheme assets of 2,674.3m 2017: 3,408.3m to be a key audit matter, but these do not give rise to a We evaluated, via a reasonable range, key significant risk of material misstatement.
In particular, assumptions including the discount rate, life we consider the valuation of SPS harder to value expectancies of scheme members and inflation assets and the Groups share of the allocation of the rates used in the valuation of the pension LGPS and RPS pension scheme assets to be a key audit liabilities by management.
matter due to the degree of estimation uncertainty in We have tested a sample of the membership determining the pension asset value at 28 April 2018. data used by the actuaries to the Groups We also consider managements accounting for the records.
participation in the Railways Pension Scheme, as Gross Pension Assets: outlined in notes 1 and 23 to be a key audit matter We have performed testing on the but not a significant risk.
appropriateness of the valuation of pension scheme assets for SPS, LGPS and RPS.
For SPS, we performed underlying testing of pension scheme assets and involved property specialists and private equity specialists to assist us with the valuation of a sample of harder to value assets.
For RPS, we obtained the schemes audited financial statements to support the value of assets held at 31 December 2017.
With the involvement of our actuarial specialists, we performed substantive analytical review procedures to roll forward the valuation of the assets to 28 April 2018 and agreed this to third party administrator reports at 28 April 2018, which management have used to record the asset valuations.
For LGPS, with the involvement of our actuarial specialists, we performed a substantive analytical review and recalculation of the roll forward of the LGPS assets from the latest triennial valuation at 31 March 2016.
We then compared this to managements roll-forward exercise to conclude on managements level of estimation accuracy.
We also considered the historic true-up impact of the 2016 triennial valuation in assessing the appropriateness of the roll forward methodology as managements best estimate of the LGPS pension assets.
In assessing the true-up impact, we enquired with managements external actuarial specialists and concluded that based on the information available to the actuary, that the roll forward remains an appropriate approach for determining the valuation of the LGPS pension assets at 28 April 2018.
We assessed the accounting for the Railways Pensions Scheme franchise adjustment and adequacy of related disclosures within the financial statements.
We assessed the adequacy of disclosures within the financial statements.
All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was undertaken by the Group engagement team, with the assistance of our actuarial specialists.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 71 Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Carrying value of North America goodwill We gained an understanding of the key We are satisfied that there is no controls and processes in place over impairment required for North Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
and notes 1 and 11 to the consolidated financial We assessed the methodology used to statements.
We are satisfied with the adequacy of calculate value in use and integrity of the the disclosure within the financial The Group carries out an annual impairment review of valuation model.
the carrying value of its goodwill.
At 28 April 2018 the We corroborated key assumptions used by Group carried goodwill in North America of 91.0m management in the forecasts, including future 2017: 97.1m.
cash flows, growth rates and the pre-tax The significant risk arises because the headroom in the discount rate.
North America cash generating unit is particularly We evaluated managements sensitivity sensitive to managements estimated future cash analysis and disclosures showing the impact of flows, the discount rate and expected long-term a reasonably possible change in impairment growth.
assumptions and contrasted to our own The preparation of cash flow forecasts and value in independently prepared sensitivity analysis to use calculations requires management to exercise test for reasonableness.
In doing so, we significant judgement in estimating future cash flows assessed the adequacy of the disclosure and the appropriate growth and discount rates.
provided in the financial statements.
All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was undertaken by the Group engagement team, with the assistance of our valuation specialists.
Revenue recognition arising from management We obtained an understanding of the key We have concluded that revenue override of controls controls and processes in place over revenue recognised in the year is materially recognition and the recording of manual journal correct on the basis of procedures Refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial entries.
At full and specific scope locations excluding Revenue recognition is a particular area of focus for rail entities we employed a combination of our audit in considering possible areas of management data analytic techniques to correlate sales bias and fraud, arising from management override of through to trade receivables and cash receipts.
We tested non-correlating entries with detailed Revenue arrangements for customer travel are testing of a sample of sales transactions to generally straightforward.
However, in some ensure that revenue had been appropriately instances, manual adjustments are required to recognised in line with customer travel.
properly reflect the timing and valuation of revenue At full and specific scope locations, we tested all recognised, for example cash received for the sale of material manual journal entries to revenue season tickets or travel cards.
through to supporting evidence to confirm that In UK Rail, revenue is attributed to train operating the revenue recognised was appropriate and in companies by the Railway Settlement Plan RSP.
line with the Groups accounting policy.
Similar revenue allocations apply to rail services in the We performed full and specific scope audit Transport for London area and in respect of multiprocedures over this risk area, which covered operator ticket schemes in which some of the UK bus 99% of the total revenue.
Whilst the revenue All audit work in relation to this key audit attributed is determined by a third party, the matter was undertaken by the Group recording of the revenues and subsequent engagement team.
amendments are recorded by way of manual journals.
The accuracy of recording any such material adjustments to revenue related transactions may represent a fraud risk of material misstatement to revenue.
This includes material manual adjustments to accrued or deferred income balance sheet items that impact revenue in the income statement.
We obtained an understanding of the Groups Whilst the nature of the contracts Accounting for Rail Contractual Positions process for identifying and monitoring involves a high level of management Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
1 compliance with the requirements of each of judgement, we have concluded that and notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial its rail franchise agreements.
the material franchise receivable and statements.
payable balances are supportable and We met with the compliance team at each of The UK Rail industry is subject to complex contractual appropriate.
the train operating companies to understand relationships with, amongst others, the UK and evaluate the processes and controls in We are satisfied with the adequacy of Department for Transport, Network Rail and rolling place to ensure compliance with rail franchise disclosure within the consolidated stock lessors.
The nature of these contracts is such agreements.
financial statements, particularly in that there is a high level of management judgement respect of the Groups contingent We understood and assessed the impact of any over amounts receivable or payable by the Group in liabilities which could crystallise breaches we were made aware of or changes accordance with the contracts.
following a breach of one or more of in rail franchise agreements occurring during its rail franchise agreements.
the year and re-assessed matters brought forward, considering the impact on the consolidated financial statements of new or revised franchise terms.
SC100764 continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee We performed detailed testing over a sample of franchise assets, provisions and accruals, and associated revenue or costs recognised to assess whether these were appropriately recorded.
We checked the outturn of prior period estimates in relation to Schedule 4 and 8 claims refer to definition in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements and other material balances to assess managements estimation accuracy.
These are amounts receivable or payable under the franchise agreement under specified circumstances.
We performed a comparative review of the material judgemental franchise assets, provisions and accruals held across each of the train operating companies of the Group against each other in order to assist us in concluding on the completeness of the balances recognised.
We assessed whether there were any indicators that the assets or liabilities held should no longer be recognised due to the passage of time, changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements.
Specifically in relation to the South West Trains franchise, we reviewed the Transfer Agreement to understand managements evaluation of the resulting impact on the franchise accruals and receivable balances.
We tested the accruals and receivable balances to supporting documentation and a third party confirmation of specific residual balances at 28 April 2018 from the new operator of the franchise.
We assessed the adequacy of disclosures within the financial statements, particularly as they relate to contingent liabilities.
All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was undertaken by the Group engagement team.
Liability for uncertain tax positions We gained an understanding of the Groups We have concluded that process for determining liabilities for tax and managements judgements in relation Refer to the Audit Committee report section 5.4.
1 calculating the tax charge for the Group.
to the provision of liabilities for and notes 1, 8 and 21 to the consolidated financial uncertain tax positions were We involved our US tax specialists in specific areas statements.
of US tax and transfer pricing and challenge of the Management applies judgement in assessing tax assumptions and estimates in relation to the level We have concluded that tax balances uncertainties across the different locations, which of liability recognised for significant tax risks.
recognised in the year are materially requires interpretation of local tax laws.
Given this correct on the basis of procedures We agreed underlying tax balances to supporting judgement, there is a risk that tax liabilities assets are performed and tax provisions are documentation, including correspondence with misstated.
We are satisfied with the adequacy of We have also challenged the appropriateness of disclosure within the financial managements assumptions with regard to the statements.
recoverability of deferred tax assets.
All audit work in relation to this key audit matter was undertaken by the Group engagement team, with assistance from our specialist tax team.
In the current year, the Virgin Trains East Coast onerous contract key audit matter from the prior year has been updated to reflect the termination of the franchise.
We have also included pension assets as a key audit matter as set out above.
page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 73 Scope of Our Audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of the performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 55 reporting components of the Group, excluding the parent entity, we selected 29 components covering entities within the UK Rail, UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London and North America business areas, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 29 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 13 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics and comprised three rail operating companies, eight UK Bus regional operations components, North America and the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
For the remaining 16 components specific scope components, comprising 14 UK Bus regional operations components and 2 UK Bus London components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within each component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the consolidated financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures were: Components Percentage of adjusted Percentage of Percentage of profit before tax revenue total assets Full Scope 13 64% 77% 56% Specific Scope 16 42% 22% 28% 29 106% 99% 84% Parent and consolidation adjustments 7 % 4% Overall coverage 99% 99% 88% Of the remaining components, none are individually greater than 1.5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, intercompany eliminations and obtaining audit evidence to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements Changes from the Prior Year The increase in full scope components from 8 to 13 reflects managements changes to the granularity of components recorded in the Groups consolidation.
Two components have been added to specific scope in order to increase coverage.
Management has also adjusted reporting of components which has increased the overall number of components.
This has had no impact on our scoping assessment, with consistent testing still applied across the original components.
Involvement with Component Teams The audit work on all in scope reporting units, with the exception of Virgin Rail Group, was performed directly by the Group engagement team.
We also communicated with a firm outside of the EY network of firms with respect to the audit of the complete financial information of the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
The Group engagement team held meetings and calls with the Virgin Rail Group auditors to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and our reporting requirements.
In addition, we had meetings and calls with them as their audit work progressed so that we could effectively supervise, direct and understand the findings from their work.
We also observed the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee meeting in May 2018, at which Virgin Rail Groups external and internal auditors presented.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the financial statements.
Our Application of Materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.8m 2017: 7.0m, which is 4.7% of adjusted profit before tax being reported profit before tax adjusted to exclude net exceptional losses.
We believe that adjusted profit before tax provides us with a consistent measure of underlying year-on-year performance as it excludes the impact of non-recurring items.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 6.8m 2017: 7.0m, in line with group materiality.
This is based on the parent entities share of net assets which has been allocated 100% of Group materiality.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and have deemed this still to be appropriate at the year end.
Performance materiality Performance materiality represents the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
SC100764 continued On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 5.1m 2017: 5.3m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our understanding of the perspective of the users of the financial statements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.1m to 2.5m 2017: 1.1m to 2.5m.
Reporting Threshold Reporting threshold represents the amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2017: 0.4m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other Information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, including the shareholder information set out on pages 155 to 156, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out in section 3.5 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out in section 5 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee or is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out in section 4.2 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are Required to Report by Exception In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out in section 9, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
page 74 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:00 Page 75 Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant include compliance with rail franchises, applicable health & safety and data protection regulations, competition and consumer protection laws, labour regulations and employee rights laws.
We understood how the Company is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management within various parts of the business to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures included a review of board minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations and enquiries of senior management.
We identified any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations at Group components through the direction and oversight of our component audit teams.
We discussed any potential findings with senior management.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed as auditors and signed an engagement letter on 29 November 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the Annual General Meeting in 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 29 April 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is two years, covering the years ended 29 April 2017 to 28 April 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional Report to the Audit Committee.
Use of Our Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Harvey Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 28 June 2018 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the Stagecoach Group plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
