Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 13.
Financial instruments Classification and measurement Accounting policy The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: amortised cost: fair value through other comprehensive income: and fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are classified as either amortised cost, or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition of the instrument or, where applicable, at the time of reclassification.
Financial assets held at amortised cost and fair value through other comprehensive income Debt instruments held at amortised cost or held at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI have contractual terms that give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI characteristics.
Principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition but this may change over the life of the instrument as amounts are repaid.
Interest consists of consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular period and for other basic lending risks and costs, as well as a profit margin.
In assessing whether the contractual cash flows have SPPI characteristics, the Group considers the contractual terms of the instrument.
This includes assessing whether the financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition.
In making the assessment, the Group considers: Contingent events that would change the amount and timing of cash flows Leverage features Prepayment and extension terms Terms that limit the Groups claim to cash flows from specified assets e. g. non-recourse asset arrangements : and Features that modify consideration of the time value of money e. g. periodical reset of interest rates Whether financial assets are held at amortised cost or at FVOCI depend on the objectives of the business models under which the assets are held.
A business model refers to how the Group manages financial assets to generate cash flows.
The Group makes an assessment of the objective of a business model in which an asset is held at the individual product business line and, where applicable, within business lines depending on the way the business is managed and information is provided to management.
Factors considered include: How the performance of the product business line is evaluated and reported to the Groups management How managers of the business model are compensated, including whether management is compensated based on the fair value of assets or the contractual cash flows collected The risks that affect the performance of the business model and how those risks are managed The frequency, volume and timing of sales in prior periods, the reasons for such sales and expectations about future sales activity The Groups business model assessment is as follows: Business model Business objective Characteristics Businesses Products Hold to collect Intent is to originate financial Providing financing and originating Corporate Lending Loans and advances assets and hold them to assets to earn interest income as Corporate Finance Debt securities maturity, collecting the primary income stream Transaction Banking contractual cash flows over Performing credit risk management Retail Lending the term of the instrument activities Treasury Markets Costs include funding costs, Loans and transaction costs and Borrowings impairment losses Financial Markets selected Hold to collect Business objective met Portfolios held for liquidity needs: or Treasury Markets Derivatives and sell through both hold to where a certain interest yield profile Debt securities collect and by selling is maintained: or that are normally financial assets rebalanced to achieve matching of duration of assets and liabilities Income streams come from interest income, fair value changes, and impairment losses Fair value All other business objectives, Assets held for trading All other business lines Derivatives through profit or including trading and Assets that are originated, Trading portfolios loss managing financial assets purchased, and sold for profit Financial Markets on a fair value basis taking or underwriting activity.
reverse repos Performance of the portfolio is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Income streams are from fair value changes or trading gains or losses.
