Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Ordinary shares Final dividend Results and dividend announced 26 February 2019 Ex-dividend date 7 March UK 6 March HK 2019 Record date for dividend 8 March 2019 Last date to amend currency election instructions for cash dividend 16 April 2019 Dividend payment date 16 May 2019 Preference shares 1st half-yearly dividend 2nd half-yearly dividend 738 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2019 1 October 2019 814 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2019 1 October 2019 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January, 30 April 2019 30 July, 30 October 2019 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2019 30 July 2019 Annual General Meeting Country-by-country reporting The Annual General Meeting AGM details are as follows: In accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements country-by-country reporting Regulations 2013, the Group will Date and time Location publish additional country-by-country information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, on or before 31 December 2019.
venues We have also published our approach to tax and tax policy.
11.00am London time 200 Aldersgate 6.00pm Hong Kong time S t Pauls This information will be available on the Groups website at sc.
com London EC1A 4HD Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in ShareCare the Notice of AGM.
ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold can be found on the Companys website at sc.
com investors your Standard Chartered PLC shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to Interim results worry about keeping your share certicates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive any The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, BSE Limited Bombay and there are no annual fees to pay.
Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited If you would like to receive more information, please visit our website at and put on the Companys website.
An alternative is to consider donating them to receive the Annual Report and Accounts electronically rather than to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which collects by post, please register online at: investorcentre.
Then click donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell, and on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your uses the proceeds to support UK charities.
There is no implication for Shareholder or ShareCare reference number when you log on.
You capital gains tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity, can nd this on your share certicate or ShareCare statement.
Once and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the value registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election of their donation.
electronically, and change your bank mandate or address information.
Further information can be obtained from Forward-looking statements the Companys registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from sharegift.
org This document may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS identied by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building society facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as may, account.
could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, believe, plan, seek, continue or other words of similar meaning.
By their very Please register online at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact our registrar for a mandate form nature, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially Registrars and shareholder enquiries from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you Recipients should not place reliance on, and are cautioned about hold your shares on the UK register, please contact our registrar relying on, any forward-looking statements.
There are several factors Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater which could cause actual results to differ materially from those Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ or call the shareholder helpline number expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
The factors that on 0370 702 0138. could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register and you changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, have enquiries, please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor market and regulatory forces or conditions, future exchange and Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road interest rates, changes in tax rates, future business combinations or East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
dispositions and other factors specic to the Group.
Any forwardYou can check your shareholding at looking statement contained in this document is based on past or computershare.
com hk investors current trends and or activities of the Group and should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue If you hold Indian Depository Receipts and you have enquiries, please in the future.
contact Karvy Fintech Private Limited, Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad 500032, India.
No statement in this document is intended to be a profit forecast or to imply that the earnings of the Group for the current year or future years will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published earnings Chinese translation of the Group.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the If you would like a Chinese version of the 2018 Annual Report and date of the particular statement.
Except as required by any applicable Accounts, please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor laws or regulations, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation to Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
18317M Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction, an offer or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities or other financial Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to instruments, nor shall it constitute a recommendation or advice receive corporate communications in either Chinese or English can in respect of any securities or other financial instruments or any change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Annual Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
