1 Financial Reporting 5.1 Introduction from Gregor Alexander, Chairman of the Audit Committee The Groups interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its Annual Report, were reviewed and revised by the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit before recommending their publication to the Board.
At each meeting, Committee report for the financial year ended 28 April 2018 in the Committee discussed with management how they had applied critical accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report accounting policies and judgements to these documents, having describes how we have discharged our responsibilities under the Code considered reports from both the Groups management and the external and monitored the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, auditors.
The external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee internal control systems and risk management.
and presented audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
During the year, the Company corresponded with the Financial Reporting Council FRC in respect of the Groups accounting for its participation in the Railways Pension Scheme RPS in the light of the FRC identifying potential diversity in the accounting by UK listed companies.
The FRC did not conduct a full review of our 2017 Annual Report and Financial Gregor Alexander Statements and considered only specific disclosures in relation to the Chairman of the Audit Committee RPS.
The FRC requested further information on the accounting treatment 28 June 2018 that has been applied by the Group consistently since the adoption of IFRS in 2005, in particular relating to the accounting applied at the end of a franchise period, the Groups application of the amendments to IAS 19 5.2 Composition of the Audit Committee issued in November 2013 and the judgements made in recognising a net RPS pension asset after applying the franchise adjustment.
The FRC has The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 4.9 of now closed its enquiries.
No changes have been required to the this Annual Report and this section 5.2 explains how we have addressed accounting treatment we have applied, but we have provided additional the audit committee composition requirements of the UK Corporate explanation in this Annual Report of the judgements we have made in Governance Code.
Gregor Alexander is the current Chairman of the Audit respect of the recognition of the net pension asset for the RPS, including Committee and is a Chartered Accountant.
Gregor is the Finance Director alternative assessments that could have been made and that any asset of SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company, and is the designated Committee arises as a consequence of applying the industry-wide accounting member with recent and relevant financial experience.
treatment for the RPS that was agreed for adoption of IFRS in 2005.
The Committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of The Committee considered a number of issues and accounting audit, financial and commercial expertise, as well as competence judgements in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 28 relevant to the Groups industry sector.
Of particular note, are the April 2018, of which it considered the most significant to be those set out insights brought by Ray OToole during the year from his experience in in the table on the following pages.
other organisations involved in the bus and rail sectors.
In addition to the significant accounting judgements set out in the table, the Committee also considered other accounting and reporting matters 5.3 Operation of the Audit Committee in respect of the year ended 28 April 2018, including the following: The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee Exceptional items The Committee considered the appropriateness of retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee should attend the amounts disclosed as exceptional items in the financial statements its meetings but generally invites the following to attend: and the adequacy of the disclosure related to such items.
The The Group Finance Director: Committee is satisfied that the Groups approach is appropriate in this The Group Financial Controller: area.
The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: Rail franchise opportunities In light of the range of opportunities Representatives from the external auditors: facing the Groups UK Rail Division and also the expiry of the Groups Representatives from the Risk Assurance internal audit Function.
South West Trains franchise in August 2017, the Committee considered In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to whether any actual or anticipated changes in contractual claims against present to the Committee at least annually.
The Committee may also third parties and the commercial terms or duration of rail franchises invite other directors of the Company to attend meetings of the resulted in any changes in accounting estimates.
The Committee also Committee and does so from time to time.
considered the accounting for any costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities.
The Committee concluded that the accounting estimates in the consolidated financial statements had been 5.4 Activities of the Audit Committee appropriately updated for such franchise changes and that any costs The Committee receives reports from major business functions including incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities had been appropriately the outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal audit.
reports from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of The Audit Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements and the conclusions that the Group remains a going concern and that the Board accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the Group.
has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 1 May objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
2021, noting it was consistent with the disclosure given in section 3.11 of The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the this Annual Report.
Groups website at: https: www.
com  The sections that follow set out the areas that the Committee focused on during and in respect of the year ended 28 April 2018.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 41 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 42 Audit Committee report Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Committee Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee consolidated financial statements Accounting policy judgements Accounting for participation in Railways Pension Scheme The participation of the Groups train The Committee considered the continuing Applying the agreed 1, 23 operating companies in the Railways Pension appropriateness of the judgement made on accounting Scheme RPS has some unusual features.
accounting for the Groups participation in the treatment results in Determining how to account for that RPS.
The Committee considered the a net RPS pension participation in accordance with IFRS requires correspondence between the Group and the asset being a greater level of judgement than for more Financial Reporting Council during the year on reflected in the common pensions arrangements.
The Committee also discussed the Groups matter with the auditors.
The Committee noted consolidated The Groups critical accounting judgements and considered alternative approaches that balance sheet as at described in note 1 to the consolidated might be appropriate to accounting for the 28 April 2018 of financial statements includes an explanation of Groups participation in the RPS.
4.2m 2017: the accounting judgement made for the 45.1m.
Groups participation in the RPS.
The Committee noted that the accounting policy applied by the Group in respect of the RPS is consistent with an industry-wide accounting treatment agreed with other train operating companies and major accounting firms around the time the Group first adopted IFRS in 2005.
The Committee concluded that the judgement made remained appropriate.
Estimation judgements Rail contractual positions The Groups current and former train The Committee discussed with management the As at 28 April 2018, 1 operating companies are party to various key judgements made in estimating contractual the UKRail net contractual and regulatory arrangements receivables and payables in relation to current liabilities shown in typical of the UK rail sector.
These include and former train operating companies, note 2 d were arrangements with the Department for challenging the judgements made.
234.6m 2017: Transport, Network Rail, Transport for London 278.1m.
The The Committee considered the work undertaken and other train operators.
These Directors estimate by the auditors in relation to rail contractual arrangements give rise to estimation that these could positions, including the extent to which balances uncertainty in determining the carrying value require adjustment had been validated with the relevant of receivables and payables in respect of these by up to 15m in counterparties.
The degree of estimation the year ending 27 uncertainty has increased since 29 April 2017 The Committee agreed that managements April 2019, as a due to increased uncertainty arising from the estimates of contractual receivables and result of the end of the South West Trains franchise in payables in relation to current and former train reassessment of rail August 2017 and the end of the Virgin Trains operating companies were appropriate.
contractual East Coast franchise in June 2018. positions.
The Groups key sources of estimation uncertainty described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements include rail contractual positions.
Virgin Trains East Coast accounting The Group has recorded an onerous contract The Committee considered the accounting Pre-tax exceptional 4, 15, 22 provision in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast, estimates made in respect of Virgin Trains East charges of 49.0m whose rail franchise agreement was terminated Coast and challenged the assumptions made.
for the year ended in June 2018 and whose business was The Committee concluded that the judgements 28 April 2018 were transferred to a public sector company.
and assumptions made were appropriate.
recognised in respect of Virgin The Group has also reviewed the carrying values The Committee agreed with management's Trains East Coast.
of Virgin Trains East Coast's assets and liabilities judgement that the expense relating to the as at 28 April 2018 and made appropriate Virgin Trains East Coast franchise onerous adjustments to them.
contract provision and related adjustments should be recognised as exceptional expenses.
While the terms of the transfer of the business, as well as certain assets and liabilities, to the public sector company have been agreed, the transfer values have not yet been agreed for all of the individual transferring items.
page 42 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 43 Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Committee Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee consolidated financial statements North America impairment review The financial performance of the North The Committee considered and challenged the The carrying value 1, 11 America Division has been less favourable than methodology and assumptions used by of North America was assumed in estimating its value in use as management in estimating the value in use of the non-current assets at 29 April 2017. non-current assets of the North America Division.
as at 28 April 2018 The Committee considered sensitivity analysis was US$501.7m and The value in use as at 28 April 2018 has been undertaken on those assumptions.
the estimated value estimated to exceed the carrying value of the in use was Divisions non-current assets.
However, there The Committee also considered third party US$689.0m.
Note 11 are alternative but still reasonably possible evidence relevant to assessing whether the to the consolidated assumptions that when applied result in a carrying value of the assets was impaired.
financial statements value in use estimate below carrying value.
The Committee agreed with management that the provides The Groups key sources of estimation carrying value of the North America non-current information on the uncertainty described in note 1 to the assets as at 28 April 2018 was not impaired but sensitivity of the consolidated financial statements include noted that alternative assumptions could result in value in use amount matters related to the NorthAmerica a material impairment loss and that it was possible to changes in impairment review.
that such a loss could arise within the next year.
Pensions assumptions The determination of the Groups pension The Committee considered the appropriateness The total pensions 1, 7, 23 benefit obligation and expense for bus and rail of pension assumptions by receiving reports expense recognised defined benefit pension schemes is dependent from management outlining the basis of the in the consolidated on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used, comparing these assumptions income statement assumptions used by actuaries in calculating to those applied by other companies operating for the year ended such amounts.
Those assumptions include the in the same sector as the Group as well as by 28 April 2018 was discount rate, annual rate of increase in future listed companies more generally, considering 90.6m 2017: salary levels and life expectancies.
advice from external actuaries and considering 95.2m and the net analysis undertaken by the external auditors.
retirement benefit Pensions assumptions are a key source of The Committee noted that there was a range of liability as at 28 April estimation uncertainty described in note 1 to acceptable assumptions but concluded that the 2018 was 142.2m the consolidated financial statements.
In note 23 to the consolidated financial statements, analysis is provided that shows the sensitivity of pension amounts to changes in key assumptions.
Insurance provisions The estimation of the insurance provision in The Committee discussed with management the The insurance 1,22 respect of traffic accidents and employee key judgements made in determining the provision in the incidents is based on an assessment of the insurance provision, challenging the consolidated expected settlement on known claims methodology used, and understanding the balance sheet as at together with an estimate of settlements that extent to which estimates are supported by 28 April 2018 was will be made in respect of incidents occurring third party actuarial advice and analysis 153.8m 2017: prior to the balance sheet date but for which provided by the external auditors.
claims have not been reported to the Group.
Committee noted that there was a range of acceptable estimates for the year-end insurance Insurance provision assumptions are a key provision and after challenge, concluded that source of estimation uncertainty described in the amount of the insurance provision was at note 1 to the consolidated financial an appropriate point within that range.
Uncertain tax positions Estimation of the tax charge requires an The Committee considered the judgements made The consolidated 1, 8, 21 assessment to be made of the potential tax in respect of tax by reviewing reports from tax charge for the consequences of certain items that will only management outlining the basis of the year ended 28 April be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax assumptions, challenging the estimates formed 2018 was 31.5m authorities.
and considering the extent to which third party 2017: 0.2m professional advice and or historical experience credit.
The net Uncertain tax positions are a key source of informed the judgements.
The Committee met consolidated tax estimation uncertainty described in note 1 to with the Groups Tax Director, the Group Tax liability as at 28 the consolidated financial statements.
Manager and a tax specialist from the external April 2018 was auditors in April 2018.
The specific tax accounting 67.0m 2017: judgements considered by the Committee 21.9m.
Further included tax losses incurred by Virgin Trains East information on Coast, the financing of and transactions with uncertain tax overseas i. e. non-UK operations and losses estimates is incurred by overseas operations in the ordinary provided in section course of business.
4 of this Annual appropriate judgements had been made in Report.
determining the tax amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 43 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 44 Audit Committee report 5.4.
3 Non-Audit services Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in Ernst & Young was appointed as the Groups external auditor at the place to safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups Annual General Meeting in August 2016.
Mark Harvey, who was policies on non-audit services are set by the Audit Committee and are appointed in August 2016, is the current audit engagement partner, and currently: under partner rotation rules, a new lead audit partner will be required in 2022.
In accordance with the Code, the Group will be expected to General The auditors are not permitted to provide any non-audit tender the external audit by 2026. services that they would be prohibited by law from providing due to either the nature of the services or the level of the fee for the The external auditors presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee, services.
setting out their analysis of significant audit risks and key judgemental accounting matters, which would inform their planned scope and Audit related services These are services that the auditors must approach to the current year audit.
For the year ended 28 April 2018, undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as the most significant risks identified were in relation to provisioning for auditors.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, insurance claims, carrying value of goodwill and intangibles, pensions regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors accounting, Virgin Trains East Coast accounting, rail contractual would generally provide all such services, subject to any legal positions and uncertain tax positions, based on the inherent level of restrictions.
management judgement required in these areas.
These risks are Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each monitored through the year and the Committee challenged the work specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate done by the auditors to test managements assumptions and estimates.
skills and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of Private meetings were held with the external auditors at each advisors for tax consulting and prior to July 2016, the Group would Committee meeting without the presence of management.
The consider using the auditors for tax consulting where they were best Committee Chairman also holds discussions with the external auditors suited to the work being undertaken.
It is now the Groups policy not between Committee meetings.
to use the auditors for such work.
The Audit Committee is responsible for agreeing the audit engagement General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select letter, agreeing the scope of the audit, appointing the audit partner and an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and and the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to for general consulting, including the auditors where they are best the external auditors.
suited to the work being undertaken and subject to any legal restrictions.
Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship The auditors are only permitted to provide non-audit services to the between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: Group when the Audit Committee and the auditors are satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit effectively safeguarded.
activities: The Groups policies reflect the European Union Statutory Audit Directive the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: and new Audit Regulation which now prohibits most services relating to tax, and which is effective for the year ended 28 April 2018. the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one In addition to the audit fee, the external auditor received non-audit audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and related fees of 0.1m 2017: 0.1m, which equate to 7.7% 2017: 7.7% of the audit fee and further details of which can be found in note 3 to the discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services process on an annual basis in the context of the wider assurance does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear processes across the Group.
As well as undertaking its own assessment benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good of the audit effectiveness, the Committee also considers the views of a understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting number of finance managers from various parts of the Group.
The firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having auditor assessment questionnaire is completed on an annual basis and particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the examines three main performance criteria robustness of the audit auditors are identified.
The Committee will review its policy on non-audit process, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
This services from time to time, to ensure continued compliance with laws and assessment also includes consideration of the auditors independence regulations, including European Union legislation.
and objectivity, taking into account relevant laws, regulations and professional requirements.
The assessment involves considering all 5.4.
4 Internal auditors relationships between the Group and the auditors, including the nature and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from the  assumed responsibility for managing the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal auditors effective from employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that September 2016.
The Committee has received several reports from could affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account , detailing the planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings and any related material actions to address of relevant ethical standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies and processes for maintaining independence unsatisfactory results.
 attended all meetings of and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements.
the Committee, in addition to meeting privately with the Committee without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee reviews the The Audit Quality Review team of the FRC reviewed Ernst & Youngs internal audit plan at least annually and considers whether it is aligned to audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year the key risks of the Group.
The Committee also has the responsibility for ended 29 April 2017.
The FRC wrote to the Chairman of the Audit making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal Committee setting out the scope of its review, its principal findings and and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function.
There have the actions which Ernst & Young proposed to take in response.
The been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit review raised some important matters and the Audit Committee Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
considered the FRCs report and discussed the proposed actions with Ernst & Young, noting in particular the planned enhancements to audit The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the Risk Assurance work in the areas of rail franchise accounting, insurance provisions and Function on an annual basis and seeks to satisfy itself that the quality, pension scheme obligations.
The Committee followed up with Ernst & expertise and experience of the function is appropriate for the Group.
Young in June 2018 to confirm the actions were implemented for the This assessment involves both Audit Committee members and members 2018 audit.
of the management team completing a questionnaire with the results of Having completed the assessment of both the external audit process that exercise then considered by the Committee.
This assessment and the external auditor for the year ended 28 April 2018, a resolution includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Groups auditor will be put to the level of fees, the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
function in the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
5 Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy The external auditors report on whether the fair, balanced and understandable statement is materially consistent with their The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing their Conduct and use of the Groups Whistleblowing policy, which provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the conduct of audit.
the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee The Audit Committees assessment considered whether: ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act Appropriate weight had been given to bad news as well as good proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee news in the Annual Report: takes a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in The description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, financial reporting.
strategy and objectives in the Annual Report was consistent with the All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the Boards understanding: Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although The principal risks and uncertainties were consistent with the Group there were no such matters that were material.
6 Other activities The Annual Report was presented in an understandable way.
The Committee has considered a range of other matters at its three The Audit Committee also noted the established internal control and risk meetings over the last year and received various reports and management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated presentations as follows: financial statements, including those matters detailed in section 4.14 of A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director and the Group this Annual Report.
Tax Manager on the Groups tax affairs and related accounting judgements and risks.
The Group Treasury team gave a presentation on 5.5 Viability statement the Groups treasury affairs and management of treasury risks.
The Audit Committee advised the Board on the statement on the Groups As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both viability included in section 3.11 of this Annual Report, which was management and the external auditors updated the Committee on underpinned by the consideration of the following points: developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, the The Audit Committee assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code, legislation made about the Groups prospects, with reference to the strategy and affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory risk appetite set by the Board: developments and guidance.
The Audit Committee identified which risks, including those described The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin as principal risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report, could Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Groups potentially impact the Boards assessment of the Groups viability: Finance Director is Chairman of the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the length of the assessment period: 5.4.
7 Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Audit Committee examined the stress testing of financial forecasts, The Audit Committee advised the Board on whether it considers the the potential effectiveness of mitigating actions, and consideration of Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, the Groups ability to withstand the severe but plausible downside balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary scenarios modelled.
for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business A draft of the viability statement was presented to the Audit Committee model and strategy.
The Committee assessed the controls and processes and Board in June 2018 for review and finalisation.
in place in respect of the production of the Annual Report and financial statements as operating effectively during the year, and was able to provide positive assurance to the Board on the fair, balanced and 5.6 Committee evaluation understandable conclusion.
The Committees activities formed part of the review of Board In advising the Board, the Audit Committee noted that: effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this review are provided in section 4.8.
Audit Committee members also completed a separate The Board considers the key risks facing the Group and the Audit questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Committee and the results of Committee considered how these link to the description of principal that exercise were considered by the Committee.
Overall, the Committee risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report: considers that it has continued to operate effectively during the year.
The Board considers the strategy of the Group and its short and longterm objectives: The Board receives regular updates on the actual financial performance of the Group and significant developments affecting the Group: The Board receives summaries of significant media coverage relevant to the Group: The Board annually reviews and approves the Groups budget and is updated at least twice a year on an updated forecast of financial performance for the year: The Audit Committee receives updates on developments in accounting standards and other relevant laws and regulations: The Audit Committee receives updates on key areas such as treasury, taxation and audit: The Audit Committee and the Board generally have the opportunity to consider, comment and request changes to the Annual Report prior to publication: The preparation of the front end of the Annual Report includes the Corporate Communications team, the Company Secretariat, and Group Finance as well as divisional management validating the appropriateness of the material relating to the relevant division.
The involvement of these various groups helps ensure the balance, completeness and accuracy of the front end: The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors, the internal auditors and management in respect of various matters including the financial statements: Stagecoach Group plc | page 45
