Supplementary Supplementary information financial information Company balance sheet translated to INR As at 31 December 2018 31.12.18 31.12.17 Rs.
million Non-current assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2,432,471 2,432,471 Current assets Derivative financial instruments 628 4,885 Investment securities 805,194 848,605 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,228,763 1,096,716 Taxation 838 209 Total current assets 2,035,423 1,950,415 Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 78,726 34,338 Other creditors 28,127 28,264 Taxation Total current liabilities 106,853 62,602 Net current assets 1,928,570 1,887,813 Total assets less current liabilities 4,361,041 4,320,284 Non-current liabilities Debt securities in issue 1,200,567 1,128,472 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 937,729 968,857 Total non-current liabilities 2,138,296 2,097,330 Total assets less liabilities 2,222,745 2,222,954 Equity Share capital and share premium account 496,293 495,316 Other reserves 1,195,472 1,195,472 Retained earnings 184,740 185,927 Total shareholders equity 1,876,505 1,876,714 Other equity instruments 346,240 346,240 Total equity 2,222,745 2,222,954 Company statement of changes in equity translated to INR For the year ended 31 December 2018 Share capital and share Capital Other premium and merger Retained equity 1 account reserve earnings instruments Total Rs.
349 million, capital redemption reserve of Rs.
907 million and merger reserve of Rs.
1,194,216 million 2 Comprises dividends paid net of scrip Rs.
nil and dividends on preferences shares classified as equity and Additional Tier 1 securities Rs.
31,058 million Standard Chartered 370 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information In making an investment decision, Summary of significant Functional and presentation potential investors should consult their differences between Indian currency own professional advisers for an GAAP and IFRS understanding of the differences between IFRS IAS 21 The Effects of Changes The condensed consolidated interim financial IFRS and Indian GAAP and how those in Foreign Exchange Rates statements of the Group for the year ended differences may have affected the financial An entity may present its financial statements 31 December 2018 with comparatives results of the Group.
The summary does in any currency or currencies.
If the as at 31 December 2017 are prepared in not purport to be complete and is subject presentation currency differs from the accordance with International Financial to and qualified in its entirety by reference entitys functional currency, it translates Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS to the pronouncements of the International its results and financial position into the Interpretations Committee interpretations Accounting Standards Board IASB, presentation currency.
as adopted by the European Union.
together with the pronouncements of the Monetary assets and liabilities are translated Indian accounting profession.
IFRS differs in certain significant respects at the closing rate at the date of that from Indian Generally Accepted Accounting statement of financial position.
Income Changes in accounting policy Principles GAAP.
Such differences involve statement items are translated at the methods for measuring the amounts shown exchange rate at the date of transaction or IFRS IAS 8 Accounting Policies, in the financial statements of the Group, as at average rates.
The functional currency Changes in Accounting Estimates well as additional disclosures required by is the currency of the primary economic and Errors Indian GAAP.
environment in which an entity operates.
Changes in accounting policy are applied The functional and presentation currency Set out below are descriptions of certain retrospectively.
Comparatives are restated of the Group is US dollars.
accounting differences between IFRS and and the effect of period s not presented is Indian GAAP that could have a significant adjusted against opening retained earnings Indian GAAP AS 11 The Effects of effect on profit or loss attributable to parent of the earliest year presented.
Policy changes Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates company shareholders for the period ended made on the adoption of a new standard are There is no concept of functional or 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 made in accordance with that standards presentation currency.
Entities in India have and total parent company shareholders transitional provisions.
to prepare their financial statements in equity as at the same dates.
does not provide a comprehensive analysis Indian GAAP AS 5 Net Profit or Loss of such differences.
In particular, this for the Period, Prior Period Items and A foreign currency transaction should be description considers only those Indian Changes in Accounting Policies recorded, on initial recognition in the reporting GAAP pronouncements for which adoption The cumulative amount of the change is currency, by applying to the foreign currency or application is required in financial included in the income statement for the amount, the exchange rate between the statements for years ended on or prior to period in which the change is made except reporting currency and the foreign currency 31 December 2018.
The Group has not as specified in certain standards transitional at the date of the transaction.
quantified the effect of differences between provision where the change during the At each balance sheet date: IFRS and Indian GAAP, nor prepared transition period resulting from adoption consolidated financial statements under of the standard has to be adjusted Foreign currency monetary items should Indian GAAP, nor undertaken a reconciliation against opening retained earnings and be reported using the closing rate of IFRS and Indian GAAP financial the impact disclosed.
Non-monetary items which are carried in statements.
Had the Group undertaken Where a change in accounting policy has terms of historical cost denominated in any such quantification or preparation or a material effect in the current period, the a foreign currency should be reported reconciliation, other potentially significant amount by which any item in the financial using the exchange rate at the date of accounting and disclosure differences may statements is affected by such change the transaction have come to its attention which are not should also be disclosed to the extent identified below.
Accordingly, the Group Non-monetary items which are carried ascertainable.
Where such an amount is not does not provide any assurance that the at fair value or other similar valuation ascertainable, this fact should be indicated.
differences identified below represent all denominated in a foreign currency should the principal differences between IFRS be reported using the exchange rates that and Indian GAAP relating to the Group.
existed when the values were determined Furthermore, no attempt has been made to identify future differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP.
In addition, no attempt has been made to identify all differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP that may affect the financial statements as a result of transaction or events that may occur in the future.
371 Supplementary Supplementary information financial information Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting Consolidation for Amalgamations for Amalgamations and AS 26 Intangible Assets IFRS IFRS 10 Consolidated Treatment of a business combination Financial Statements depends on whether the acquired entity Goodwill arising on amalgamations is Entities are consolidated when the Group is held as a subsidiary, whether it is an capitalised and amortised over useful life not controls an entity.
The Group controls an amalgamation or whether it is an acquisition exceeding five years, unless a longer period entity when it is exposed to or has rights to of a business.
For an entity acquired and held can be justified.
For goodwill arising on direct relevant activities, or has the right to as a subsidiary, the business combination is acquisition of a subsidiary or a business, variable returns from its involvement with accounted for as an acquisition.
The assets there is no specific guidance.
In practice, the entity and has the ability to affect those and liabilities acquired are incorporated at there is either no amortisation or amortisation returns through its power over the investee.
Goodwill is reviewed This also includes entities where control is for impairment whenever an indicator of For an amalgamation of an entity, either not derived through voting rights such as impairment exists.
Impairment losses pooling of interests or acquisition accounting structured entities.
recognised may be reversed under may be used.
The assets and liabilities exceptional circumstances only in amalgamated are incorporated at their Indian GAAP AS 21 Consolidated subsequent accounting periods through existing carrying amounts or, alternatively, Financial Statements the income statement.
if acquisition accounting is adopted, the Guidance is based on the power through the consideration can be allocated to individual ability to govern the financial and operating Acquired and internally identifiable assets which may include policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits generated intangible assets intangible assets and liabilities on the basis while not taking into consideration potential of their fair values.
IFRS IAS 38 Intangible Assets Adjustments to the value of acquired or Intangible assets are recognised if they No specific guidance is given by Indian GAAP amalgamated balances are not permitted are deemed separable and arise from on consolidation of structured entities.
Any excess of contractual or other legal rights.
Assets acquirers interest in the net fair values of with a finite useful life are amortised on Business combinations acquirers identifiable assets is recognised as a systematic basis over their useful life.
capital reserve, which is neither amortised An asset with an indefinite useful life IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations nor available for distribution to shareholders.
should be tested for impairment annually.
All business combinations are treated as However, in case of an amalgamation acquisitions.
Assets, liabilities and contingent accounted under the purchase method, the Indian GAAP AS 26 Intangible Assets liabilities acquired are measured at their fair fair value of intangible assets with no active Intangible assets are capitalised if specific values with the excess over this fair value market is reduced to the extent of capital criteria are met and are amortised over their when compared with the acquisition cost reserve, if any, arising on the amalgamation.
useful life, generally not exceeding 10 years.
Minority interests arising on the acquisition The recoverable amount of an intangible of a subsidiary are recognised at their share For acquisitions occurring on or after asset that is not available for use or is being of the historical book value.
1 January 2004, IFRS 3 requires that, amortised over a period exceeding 10 years when assessing the value of the assets should be reviewed at least at each financial of an acquired entity, certain identifiable Goodwill year end even if there is no indication that the intangible assets must be recognised and, asset is impaired.
IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations if considered to have a finite life, amortised and IAS 38 Intangible Assets through the income statement over an Property, plant and equipment IFRS 3 requires that goodwill arising on all appropriate period.
acquisitions by the Group and associated IFRS IAS 16 Property, Plant and Adjustments to provisional fair values are undertakings is capitalised but not amortised Equipment, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs permitted provided those adjustments are and is subject to an annual review for The Groups policy is to hold all property, made within 12 months from the date of impairment.
Goodwill is tested annually plant, aviation, shipping and equipment acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment for impairment.
Any impairment losses fixed assets at cost less depreciation and to goodwill.
After re-assessment of respective recognised may not be reversed in consequently tangible fixed assets are not fair values of net assets acquired, any excess subsequent accounting periods.
Fixed assets are, of acquirers interest in the net fair values of however, subject to impairment testing.
acquirers identifiable assets is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Foreign exchange gains or losses relating to the procurement of property, plant and The Groups policy for non-controlling equipment can be capitalised as part of the interests is generally not to recognise asset.
Depreciation is recorded over the non-controlling interests at their fair value, assets estimated useful life.
Borrowing costs but to recognise them based on their that are directly attributable to the acquisition proportionate share of the fair value of or construction of an asset must be the identifiable net assets acquired.
capitalised as part of that asset.
Standard Chartered 372 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Whether financial assets are held at Mandatorily classified at fair value Property, plant and equipment amortised cost or at FVOCI depends on the through profit or loss continued objectives of the business models under Financial assets and liabilities that are which the assets are held.
A business model mandatorily held at fair value through profit Indian GAAP AS 10 Fixed Assets, refers to how the Group manages financial AS 16 Borrowing Cost and AS 6 or loss include: assets to generate cash flows.
Depreciation Accounting Financial assets and liabilities held for Fixed assets are recorded at historical costs The Group makes an assessment of the trading, which are those acquired or revalued amounts.
Relevant borrowing objective of a business model in which principally for the purpose of selling in costs are capitalised if certain criteria in an asset is held at the individual product the short term AS 16 are met.
Depreciation is recorded over business line, and where applicable within Hybrid financial assets that contain one the assets useful life.
Schedule II Part C business lines depending on the way the or more embedded derivatives of the Companies Act 2013 and Banking business is managed and information is Regulations prescribe minimum rates of provided to management.
Financial assets that would otherwise be depreciation and these are typically used measured at amortised cost or FVOCI but Financial assets that have SPPI as the basis for determining useful life.
which do not have SPPI characteristics characteristics and which are held within a business model whose objective is to hold Equity instruments that have not been Recognition and measurement financial assets to collect contractual cash designated as held at FVOCI of financial instruments flows hold to collect are recorded at Financial liabilities that constitute amortised cost.
IFRSIFRS 9 Financial Instruments contingent consideration in a business Classification and measurement Conversely, financial assets that have SPPI combination Accounting policy characteristics but are held within a business The Group classifies its financial assets into model whose objective is achieved by both Designated at fair value through profit the following measurement categories: collecting contractual cash flows and selling or loss amortised cost: fair value through other financial assets hold to collect and sell are Financial assets and liabilities may be comprehensive income: and fair value classified as FVOCI.
designated at fair value through profit or through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are loss when the designation eliminates or classified as either amortised cost, or held at Equity instruments designated significantly reduces a measurement or as FVOCI fair value through profit or loss.
Management recognition inconsistency that would determines the classification of its financial Non-trading equity instruments acquired otherwise arise from measuring assets or assets and liabilities at initial recognition of for strategic purposes rather than capital liabilities on a different basis accounting the instrument or, where applicable, at the gain may be irrevocably designated at initial mismatch.
recognition at FVOCI on an  liabilities may also be designated instrument basis.
Gains and losses arising at fair value through profit or loss where they Financial assets held at amortised from changes in the fair value of these are managed on a fair value basis or have a cost and fair value through other instruments, including foreign exchange gains bifurcately embedded derivative where the comprehensive income and losses, are recognised directly in equity Group is not able to separately value the Debt instruments held at amortised cost or and are never reclassified to profit or loss, embedded derivative component.
held at fair value through comprehensive even on derecognition.
income FVOCI have contractual terms Financial liabilities held at that give rise to cash flows that are solely Financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost payments of principal and interest SPPI fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities that are not financial characteristics.
Principal is the fair value of Financial assets that are not held at guarantees or loan commitments and that the financial asset at initial recognition but this amortised cost or which are not held at fair are not classified as financial liabilities held at may change over the life of the instrument value through other comprehensive income fair value through profit or loss are classified as amounts are repaid.
Interest consists of are held at fair value through profit or loss.
as financial liabilities held at amortised cost.
consideration for the time value of money, for Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value the credit risk associated with the principal through profit or loss are either mandatorily Financial guarantee contracts and amount outstanding during a particular classified fair value through profit or loss or loan commitments period and for other basic lending risks irrevocably designated at fair value through Financial guarantee contracts and loan and costs, as well as a profit margin.
profit or loss at initial recognition.
commitments issued at below market interest rates are initially recognised as liabilities at fair value and subsequently at the higher of the expected credit loss provision, and the amount initially recognised less the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
373 Supplementary Supplementary information financial information Equity investments designated at FVOCI are Recognition and measurement Derivatives subsequently carried at fair value with all of financial instruments continued unrealised gains and losses arising from IFRS IFRS 9 IAS 39 Financial changes in fair value including any related Instruments: Recognition and Fair value of financial assets and Measurement foreign exchange gains or losses recognised liabilities in other comprehensive income and IFRS 9 requires that all derivatives be Fair value is the price that would be received accumulated in a separate component recognised on-balance sheet at fair value.
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in of equity.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that an orderly transaction between market are not hedges are reported in the income participants at the measurement date in the Financial assets and liabilities mandatorily statement.
Changes in the fair value of principal market for the asset or liability, or in held at fair value through profit or loss and derivatives that are designated as hedges the absence of a principal market, the most financial assets designated at fair value are either offset against the change in fair advantageous market to which the Group through profit or loss are subsequently value of the hedged asset or liability through has access at that date.
The fair value of a carried at fair value, with gains and losses earnings, or recognised directly in equity until liability includes the risk that the Group will arising from changes in fair value recorded the hedged item is recognised in earnings, not be able to honour its obligations.
in the net trading income line in the income depending on the nature of the hedge.
statement unless the instrument is part of a The ineffective portion of the hedges change Initial recognition cash flow hedging relationship.
Contractual in fair value is immediately recognised in Purchases and sales of financial assets and interest income on financial assets held at fair earnings.
A derivative may only be classified liabilities held at fair value through profit or value through profit or loss is recognised as as a hedge if an entity meets stringent loss, and debt securities classified as financial interest income in a separate line in the qualifying criteria in respect of documentation assets held at FVOCI are initially recognised income statement.
on the trade-date the date on which the Financial liabilities designated at fair value Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
The Group continues to apply the hedge through profit or loss Loans and advances and other financial accounting requirements of IAS 39 rather Financial liabilities designated at fair value assets held at amortised cost are recognised than the requirements of IFRS 9. through profit or loss are held at fair value, on the settlement date the date on which with changes in fair value recognised in the cash is advanced to the borrowers.
Indian GAAP net trading income line in the profit or loss, Foreign exchange contracts held for trading All financial instruments are initially recognised other than that attributable to changes in or speculative purposes are carried at fair at fair value, which is normally the transaction credit risk.
Fair value changes attributable value, with gains and losses recognised in the price, plus directly attributable transaction to credit risk are recognised in other income statement.
In the absence of specific costs for financial assets that are not comprehensive income and recorded in a guidance, equity options are carried at the subsequently measured at fair value through separate category of reserves unless this is lower of cost or market value.
expected to create or enlarge an accounting mismatch, in which case the entire change in For banks, there are guidelines prescribed Subsequent measurement fair value of the financial liability designated by RBI on measurement and accounting Financial assets and financial liabilities fair value through profit or loss is recognised of interest rate swaps and forward rate held at amortised cost in profit or loss.
agreements entered into for hedging Financial assets and financial liabilities held at purposes.
Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments amortised cost are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest AS 13 requires investments to be categorised Impairment of financial assets method.
Foreign exchange gains and losses as follows: Under IFRS 9 the impairment of financial are recognised in the income statement.
Current investments, which are those assets is as follows: Financial assets held at FVOCI readily realisable and intended to be held Debt instruments held at FVOCI are for less than one year, are carried at the Measurement subsequently carried at fair value, with all lower of cost and fair value, with changes Expected credit losses are computed as unrealised gains and losses arising from in fair value taken directly to profit or loss unbiased, probability-weighted amounts changes in fair value including any related which are determined by evaluating a range Long-term investments, which are those foreign exchange gains or losses recognised of reasonably possible outcomes, the investments not classified as current, are in other comprehensive income and time value of money, and considering all carried at cost unless there is a permanent accumulated in a separate component of reasonable and supportable information diminution in value, in which case a equity.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on including that which is forward-looking.
provision for diminution is required to be the amortised cost are recognised in income.
made by the entity Changes in expected credit losses are For material portfolios, the estimate of recognised in the profit or loss and are expected cash shortfalls is determined by For investments, the Reserve Bank of India accumulated in a separate component multiplying the probability of default PD with RBI outlines similar classifications to IFRS, of equity.
the loss given default LGD with the expected but the classification criteria and exposure at the time of default EAD.
For less measurement requirements differ from those material Retail Banking loan portfolios, the set out in IFRS.
Financial liabilities are usually Group has adopted simplified approaches carried at cost.
There is no ability to designate based on historical roll rates or loss rates.
Standard Chartered 374 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Significant increase in credit risk is assessed Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments Impairment of financial assets by comparing the risk of default of an Long-term investments are written down continued exposure at the reporting date to the risk of when there is a decline in fair value which is For credit-impaired financial instruments, default at origination after taking into account deemed to be other than temporary.
the estimate of cash shortfalls may require the passage of time.
Significant does not Impairments may be reversed through the the use of expert credit judgement.
As a mean statistically significant nor is it assessed income statement in subsequent periods if practical expedient, the Group may also in the context of changes in expected credit the investment rises in value or the reasons measure credit impairment on the basis loss.
Whether a change in the risk of default is for the impairment no longer exist.
of an instruments fair value using an significant or not is assessed using a number observable market price.
of quantitative and qualitative factors, the In accordance with RBI regulations, in weight of which depends on the type of respect of available-forsale investments, Cash shortfalls are discounted using the product and counterparty.
Financial assets impairments are required to be reversed effective interest rate on the financial that are 30 or more days past due and not through Investment Reserve Account equity instrument as calculated at initial recognition, credit-impaired will always be considered to reserve if the investment rises in value or the or if the instrument has a variable interest rate, have experienced a significant increase in reasons for impairment no longer exist.
the current effective interest rate determined credit risk.
For less material portfolios where under the contract.
For loans and advances, the RBI regulations a loss rate or roll rate approach is applied to Location of expected stipulate minimum provision based on days compute expected credit loss, significant Instruments credit loss provisions past due.
Additionally, RBI regulations require increase in credit risk is primarily based on Financial assets held Loss provisions: banks to hold provisions in respect of 30 days past due.
at amortised cost netted against gross standard assets and for specific country carrying value risk exposures.
Credit-impaired or defaulted Financial assets Other comprehensive exposures stage 3 Derecognition of financial instruments held at FVOCI income FVOCI Financial assets that are credit-impaired or in IFRS 9 Debt instruments expected credit default represent those that are at least 90 loss reserve Financial assets are derecognised when the days past due in respect of principal and or rights to receive cash flows from the financial Loan commitments Provisions for liabilities interest.
Financial assets are also considered assets have expired or where the Group and charges to be credit-impaired where the obligors are has transferred substantially all risks and unlikely to pay on the occurrence of one Financial guarantees Provisions for liabilities rewards of ownership.
If substantially all or more observable events that have a and charges the risks and rewards have been neither detrimental impact on the estimated future retained nor transferred and the Group has cash flows of the financial asset.
It may not Recognition retained control, the assets continue to be be possible to identify a single discrete event recognised to the extent of the Groups but instead the combined effect of several 12 months expected credit losses continuing involvement.
events may cause financial assets to become stage 1 credit-impaired.
Where financial assets have been modified, Expected credit losses are recognised at the modified terms are assessed on a Irrevocable lending commitments to a the time of initial recognition of a financial qualitative and quantitative basis to determine credit-impaired obligor that have not yet instrument and represent the lifetime cash whether a fundamental change in the nature been drawn down are also included within shortfalls arising from possible default events of the instrument has occurred, such as the stage 3 credit impairment provision to up to 12 months into the future from the whether the derecognition of the pre-existing the extent that the commitment cannot balance sheet date.
Expected credit losses instrument and the recognition of a new be withdrawn.
continue to be determined on this basis until instrument is appropriate.
there is either a significant increase in the Loss provisions against credit-impaired credit risk of an instrument or the instrument On derecognition of a financial asset, the financial assets are determined based on an becomes credit-impaired.
If an instrument is difference between the carrying amount of assessment of the recoverable cash flows no longer considered to exhibit a significant the asset or the carrying amount allocated under a range of scenarios, including the increase in credit risk, expected credit to the portion of the asset derecognised realisation of any collateral held where losses will revert to being determined on and the sum of the consideration received appropriate.
The loss provisions held a 12-month basis.
including any new asset obtained less any represent the difference between the present new liability assumed and any cumulative value of the cash flows expected to be Significant increase in credit risk gain or loss that had been recognised in recovered, discounted at the instruments stage2 other comprehensive income is recognised original effective interest rate, and the gross If a financial asset experiences a significant in profit or loss except for equity instruments carrying value of the instrument prior to any increase in credit risk SICR since initial elected FVOCI see above and cumulative credit impairment.
recognition, an expected credit loss provision fair value adjustments attributable to the is recognised for default events that may credit risk of a liability that are held in other occur over the lifetime of the asset.
375 Supplementary Supplementary information financial information Indian GAAP AS 29 Provisions, Recognition continued Share-based compensation Contingents Liabilities and Contingent Assets Derecognition of financial instruments IFRS IFRS 2 Share-based Payments IFRS 9 continued Provisions are recognised and measured IFRS 2 requires that all share-based Financial liabilities are derecognised when on a similar basis to IFRS, except that there is payments are accounted for using a fair they are extinguished.
A financial liability is no requirement for discounting the provision value method.
The fair value of the employee extinguished when the obligation is or liability.
services received in exchange for the grant discharged, cancelled or expires and this is of the options is recognised as an expense.
evaluated both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Pension obligations For equity-settled awards, the total amount However, where a financial liability has been to be expensed over the vesting period must modified, it is derecognised if the difference IFRS IAS 19 Employee Benefits be determined by reference to the fair value between the modified cash flows and the For defined contribution plans, contributions of the options granted determined using an original cash flows is more than 10 per cent.
are charged to operating expenses.
For option pricing model, excluding the impact funded defined benefit plans, the liability of any non-market vesting conditions for If the Group purchases its own debt, it is recognised in the balance sheet is the example, profitability and growth targets.
derecognised and the difference between present value of the defined benefit obligation Non-market vesting conditions must be the carrying amount of the liability and the at the balance sheet date less the fair value included in assumptions about the number consideration paid is included in Other of plan assets.
For unfunded defined benefit of options that are expected to become income except for the cumulative fair value plans the liability recognised at the balance exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the adjustments attributable to the credit risk of a sheet date is the present value of the Group revises its estimates of the number liability that are held in other comprehensive defined benefit obligation.
The defined of options that are expected to become income which are never recycled to the profit benefit obligation is calculated annually by exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the or loss.
independent actuaries using the projected revision of original estimates, if any, in the unit method.
The present value of the income statement, and a corresponding IFRS classification debt equity defined benefit obligation is determined adjustment to equity over the remaining The substance of a financial instrument, by discounting the estimated future cash vesting period.
The proceeds received net rather than its legal form, governs its outflows using an interest rate equal to the of any directly attributable transaction costs classification.
A financial instrument is yield on high-quality corporate bonds.
are credited to share capital nominal value classified as a liability where there is a Actuarial gains and losses that arise are and share premium when the options contractual obligation to deliver either cash recognised in shareholders equity and are exercised.
or another financial asset to the holder of presented in the statement of other that instrument, regardless of the manner Cash-settled awards must be revalued at comprehensive income in the period they in which the contractual obligation will be each balance sheet date on an intrinsic value arise.
The net interest expense on the net settled.
Preference shares, which carry basis being the difference between the defined liability for the year is determined by a mandatory coupon or are redeemable market price of the share at the measurement applying the discount rate used to measure on a specific date or at the option of the date and the exercise price with any changes the defined benefit obligation at the beginning shareholder are classified as financial liabilities in fair value charged or credited to staff costs of the annual period to the then net defined and are presented in other borrowed funds.
benefit liability, taking into account any The dividends on these preference shares changes in the net defined benefit liability Indian GAAP are recognised in the income statement as during the year as a result of contributions interest expense on an amortised cost basis Entities may either follow the intrinsic and benefit payment.
Net interest expense using the effective interest method.
value method or the fair value method for and other expense related to defined determining the costs of benefits arising from benefit plans are recognised in the Indian GAAP share-based compensation plans.
Classification is based on the legal form the fair value approach is recommended, rather than substance.
entities may use the intrinsic value method Indian GAAP AS 15 Employee Benefits and provide fair value disclosures.
The discount rate to be used for determining Provisions for liabilities defined benefit obligations is established Deferred tax is not recognised as it is not and charges by reference to market yields at the considered to represent a timing difference.
balance sheet date on government bonds.
Entities are also permitted the option of IFRS IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent The expected return on plan assets is based recognising the related compensation cost Liabilities and Contingent Assets on market expectation for the returns over the service period for the entire award The amount recognised as a provision is the over the entire life of the related obligation.
that is, over the service period of the last best estimate at the balance sheet date of the Actuarial gains or losses are recognised separately vesting portion of the award, expenditure required to settle the obligation, immediately in the statement of income.
provided that the amount of compensation discounted using a pre-tax market discount cost recognised at any date at least equals rate if the effect is material.
the fair value of the vested portion of the award at that date.
Standard Chartered 376 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Deferred taxation Dividends IFRS IAS 12 Income Taxes IFRS IAS 10 Events After the Reporting Date Deferred tax is determined based on Dividends to holders of equity instruments, temporary differences, being the difference when proposed or declared after the balance between the carrying amount and tax sheet date, should not be recognised base of assets and liabilities, subject to as a liability on the balance sheet date.
A company, however, is required to disclose Deferred tax assets are recognised if it is the amount of dividends that were proposed probable more likely than not that sufficient or declared after the balance sheet date future taxable profits will be available to utilise but before the financial statements were to deferred tax assets.
Indian GAAP AS 22 Accounting for Indian GAAP Taxes on Income Accounting and disclosure of dividends is Deferred tax is determined based on timing similar to IFRS with effect from 1 April 2016. differences, being the difference between accounting income and taxable income for a period that is capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Interest income and expense IFRS IFRS 9 Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument.
When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Indian GAAP IAS 9 Revenue Recognition As per IAS 9, interest is recognised on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the rate applicable.
In the absence of a specific effective interest rate requirement, premiums and discounts are usually amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the instrument.
