Directors remuneration report measure recognises the importance of the Group delivering growth 8.1 A statement to shareholders from Julie from its core bus operations during a period of transition in rail Southern, Chairman of the Remuneration franchising.
Committee Activities of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors The main tasks and decisions of the Committee during the year ended 28 remuneration report for the year ended 28 April 2018.
The report includes April 2018 were: the tabular summary of the Directors remuneration policy, which was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 25 August 2017, and the Reviewed the performance and approved the Executive Directors Annual Report on Remuneration.
A complete copy of the approved bonuses for the year ended 29 April 2017. remuneration policy is available on our website at: Set annual performance targets for the Executive Directors bonuses for https: www.
com  the year ended 28 April 2018.
In line with UK legislation, we do not intend to seek further approval of the Reviewed performance of the 2014 awards under the LTIP, in June and policy at the 2018 Annual General Meeting because no changes are December 2017. proposed to the approved policy.
Reviewed and approved targets for LTIP awards made in the year ended 28 April 2018.
Our remuneration policies are designed with the long-term success of the Company in mind.
We believe our remuneration arrangements should Reviewed and approved the vesting of Deferred Shares of the 2014 provide a clear alignment between the long-term interests of our awards under the Executive Participation Plan EPP in June 2017. shareholders and the corporate strategy to be implemented by the Decided on levels of pay and benefits in the annual salary review for the executive management.
We also consider it is important that the Executive Directors and made recommendations to the Board in respect components of remuneration are easily understood and that overall of the remuneration of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, which for remuneration is not excessive.
The principles applied to our approach to all Board members resulted in a pay freeze on basic pay for 2018 19. executive pay and remuneration have, therefore, remained unchanged Reviewed the remuneration for senior non-Board managers.
Consulted with major shareholders on matters of remuneration policy, We engaged in an extensive consultation involving correspondence and noting a commitment to provide more information on the performance meetings with shareholders in the development of the 2017 remuneration against the Directors personal objectives for the year in this 2018 policy, and as a result, the policy that emerged received strong support report.
from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting approving the policy.
Obtained approval from shareholders in a binding vote at the 2017 We will continue to welcome and value input from shareholders.
The main Annual General Meeting for the Directors remuneration policy.
practical change was to stop using cliff edge targets for the annual bonus Obtained shareholder approval in the advisory vote at the 2017 Annual scheme which were instead replaced with sliding scales for performance General Meeting for the rest of the Directors remuneration report.
To accompany the introduction of sliding scale Oversaw the collation and publication of the Groups UK gender pay assessment, the 2017 policy also provides the Committee with the reporting.
discretion each year to set the overall potential bonus that can be earned at between 100% to 150% of basic pay.
Within the total that is set, the Remuneration for 2017 18 Committee has the discretion to set the amount of the potential bonus As explained earlier in the Annual Report, the Group exceeded its that can be earned in respect of financial performance at between 70% expectation of adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 28 April and 120% of the annual basic salary of the relevant Executive Director, 2018 against challenging trading conditions and while the senior with the balance to be applied on directors individual business related i. e. management team also sought to address the contractual challenges personal objectives.
For the 2017 18 year, the new sliding scale presented by the franchise contract for Virgin Trains East Coast.
We approach for performance and bonus assessment was applied, although in continue to manage the business with its long-term success in mind and this, the first year of the new policy, the Committee retained the maximum that approach is reflected in the further investment that has been made in potential award level at 100% of basic pay with a split of 70% maximum for the business during the year.
As a Committee, we try to maintain financial targets and 30% maximum for personal targets.
Applying the remuneration arrangements that balance meeting short-term financial sliding scale approach from the Policy, the on-target payout for the objectives with supporting the Groups long-term success.
We recognised financial objectives was reduced for 2017 18 to 52.5% of basic pay out of a that the challenges of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, as noted in the maximum total potential of 70%, with demanding targets set in order to previous years annual report, have not been resolved in the way we would earn that maximum potential.
have liked, and we have taken that into consideration.
We also note, and The 2017 policy provides that the performance criteria for awards granted consider it important, that the businesses have otherwise performed well under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will be split between measures of during the year, and the Executive Directors have delivered on a range of TSR and profitability.
The policy provides the Committee with the discretion non-financial personal objectives.
to consider and set appropriate measures of profitability for new LTIP awards Financial objectives and it again set an adjusted measure of earnings per share.
The consolidated profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group 2017 18 was the first year we applied a performance range for companies was ahead of the target level set at the start of the year but did determining annual bonus payments, whereby the amount of the bonus not meet the maximum levels.
Accordingly, out of the potential maximum payable in respect of a particular financial target is based on the financial of 23.4% of basic salary that the Executive Directors could have earned as performance achieved relative to the target set.
Prior to 2017 18, 70% of an annual bonus based on this measure, 20.6% of basic salary would be basic salary was payable to the Executive Directors for meeting all of the awarded.
Performance against the target for consolidated adjusted financial targets whereas for 2017 18, only 52.5% of basic salary was earnings per share EPS, which excludes amongst other things the payable for meeting the targets and to achieve 70% of basic salary exceptional costs in respect of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, was required the above-target maximum level to be delivered.
"We consider the also ahead of target and in this case met the threshold required for a move from a ""cliff edge"" approach to a ""sliding scale"" approach to have maximum payout meriting an award of 23.3% of basic salary."
In the year been successful.
For 2018 19, we have decided that 67.5% of basic salary that involved the handover of the South West Trains franchise to a new be payable to the Executive Directors for meeting all of the financial operator, cash management over the year has been excellent, and the targets, broadly in line with the 70% previously payable in 2016 17. maximum performance on the net debt target was achieved so meriting an Meeting the maximum performance levels across all of the financial award of 23.3% of basic salary.
Consequently, of the maximum of 70% of measures would result in 100% of basic salary being payable.
This will be basic salary that the Executive Directors could have earned as an annual accompanied for 2018 19 with: bonus based on financial performance, 67.2% of basic salary would be a freeze on basic pay for all directors for the year: payable for the year ended 28 April 2018. using challenging financial targets for annual bonuses and: Personal business related objectives setting challenging targets using the growth of non-rail operating profit Details of the objectives and the Committee's assessment of the as the profit based metric for LTIP awards, rather than an adjusted performance against the personal objectives are provided in Tables 5 and 6 measure of earnings per share.
The use of bus profitability as a target later in this report.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 50 Directors remuneration report In summary, the Committee determined that Martin Griffiths achieved four resolution to approve the statement by the Chairman of the out of the five personal, non-financial objectives that we set for him for the Remuneration Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration will year.
That would entitle him to a bonus amount of 24% of basic salary from be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
a potential 30% in respect of his personal, non-financial objectives.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be It determined that Ross Paterson also achieved four of the five personal, made to directors if they are consistent with the approved Directors' non-financial objectives that we set for him for the year.
That would entitle remuneration policy or otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the him to a bonus amount of 24% of basic salary from a potential 30% in shareholders.
respect of his personal, non-financial objectives.
Those sections in the remuneration report that have been audited have been highlighted as such.
The other sections of the remuneration report Overall assessment and use of discretion are not subject to audit.
While the Committee recognises the great efforts and the professional way in which the executive and senior management teams went about trying to address the contractual arrangements with the Department for Transport, it 8.3 Remuneration Committee also notes that the outcome achieved on the Virgin Trains East Coast The Committees principal function is to determine Stagecoach Groups franchise is disappointing.
The Committee had constructive discussions with policy on executive remuneration and to approve specific remuneration both executive directors in arriving at the use of its discretion and packages and service contracts for the Groups Executive Directors and recommendations for the bonus awards for the year.
such senior members of the executive management as it is asked by the It recognised that Martin Griffiths had previously noted he would decline Board to consider.
The Committee also has responsibility for making any bonus award for the year, and the Committee supported this approach recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration of the in exercising its discretion to recommend that no bonus award is made to Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
In coming to this decision, it noted that on an assessment The terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at: of the objectives as set by the Committee, Martin Griffiths would otherwise http: www.
com  merited a bonus award of 91.2% of basic pay out of a maximum total Committee.
Based on the performance relative to the objectives set for the year, the 8.4 Directors remuneration policy Committee considered that Ross Paterson would have been entitled to an This section of the report sets out the tabular summary of the annual bonus equal to 91.2% of basic salary, of which 45.6% would remuneration policy for executive directors and non-executive directors.
ordinarily be paid in cash and 45.6% would have been awarded as Deferred The full policy was approved by a binding shareholder vote at the Shares.
However, in light of the factors explained above, the Committee Companys Annual General Meeting on 25 August 2017 and took effect has also applied its discretion and agreed with Ross that the cash bonus will not be paid and that the bonus award will be limited to an award of from that date.
A complete copy of the approved remuneration policy is Deferred Shares equivalent in value to 45.6% of basic salary.
available on the Companys website at: http: www.
com  The Committee remains focused in ensuring that there is a clear linkage between pay and performance and that there is a strong alignment of interests of managers, shareholders and other major stakeholders through 8.4.
1 Key principles of the remuneration policy an appropriate mixture of pay, incentives and the use of shareholding In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive guidelines for the Executive Directors.
Directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall We are grateful for the work undertaken by the Group and our packages of terms and conditions that are competitive in the UK and remuneration advisers and for the support we have received from our will attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of major shareholders and investor representative bodies.
We continue to achieving the Groups objectives and to ensure that they are fairly value shareholders views on our remuneration arrangements and I can be rewarded for their individual responsibilities and contributions to the contacted via the Company Secretary, should any shareholder wish to meet Groups overall performance.
with me before Ileave the Company on 31 August 2018.
The Committee believes that remuneration packages for the Executive At the Groups Annual General Meeting on 31 August 2018, shareholders Directors should contain meaningful and effective performance-related will be invited to approve this statement and the Annual Report on elements, and that the performance-related elements should be Remuneration together in an advisory vote.
designed to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other It is my hope that all of our shareholders, whether they are large senior managers with the interests of shareholders.
institutional shareholders or individual shareholders, will find value in this The Remuneration Committee is able to consider all relevant factors report.
when setting the Executive Directors remuneration, including In conclusion, I have tendered my resignation from the Board effective 31 environmental, social and governance matters.
Performance targets August 2018 to take up a position with another company.
I am confident are established to achieve consistency with the interests of my successor as Chairman of the Committee, Ray OToole, will be an shareholders, with an appropriate balance between short-term and effective chairman in the interest of shareholders.
Performance targets can include financial measures as well as non-financial targets, such as environmental and safety objectives.
The incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors are structured so as not to unduly increase environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Julie Southern The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the existing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee remuneration of the Executive Directors, making comparisons with peer 28 June 2018 companies of similar size and complexity and with other companies in the public transport industry.
Proposals for the forthcoming year are then discussed in the light of the prospects for the Group as a whole.
8.2 Compliance statement The Remuneration Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels This Directors remuneration report covers the year from 30 April 2017 of other senior executives employed by the Group.
The approach is to 28 April 2018 and provides details of the Remuneration Committees consistent with that applied for the workforce in that we look to pay role and the remuneration policy we apply in decisions on executive competitively with reference to the market rate for a job.
to pensions, the Remuneration Committee has access to reports from pension scheme trustees and scheme actuaries regarding the cost of This report has been prepared in accordance with the Large & Mediumpension obligations.
sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations.
In accordance with Sections We also consult our major shareholders in developing remuneration 439 and 439A of the Companies Act 2006, an advisory ordinary policy.
2Remuneration policy table for the Executive Directors This section of our report sets out the key components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors in tabular form.
2.1Fixed elements of pay BASICSALARY Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value To attract, retain and motivate executives ensuring basic salaries are Basic salary increases are applied in line with the outcome of the competitive in the market.
An executive directors annual basic salary may not exceed 850,000.
Operation The Committee would only set a salary which exceeded the top Basic salaries are generally reviewed as at 1 May each year but the quartile of salaries applicable in FTSE 250 companies in unforeseen Remuneration Committee also has discretion to adjust them at other and exceptional circumstances.
Account is taken of changes in individual responsibilities that may have occurred and the salaries for similar roles in comparable Performance metrics companies.
The Committee also considers the published salary data for Basic salary levels are predicated on continued good performance by FTSE 250 companies and other companies in the public transport industry.
Account is also taken of pay conditions throughout the Group.
Salary levels set effective from 1 May 2018 are set out in section 8.5.
1 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PENSIONS AND LIFE ASSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value To provide relevant life assurance and pension benefits that are Final salary elements are related to basic salary and length of service, competitive in the market.
and any payment to a money-purchase arrangement or an employer cash allowance would be limited to a third of basic salary.
Operation Performance metrics Pension arrangements for executive directors are designed to provide Pensions and life assurance arrangements are predicated on continued pension benefits on retirement of up to two thirds of final pensionable good performance by the director.
pay and may be met through a combination of defined benefit pension arrangements, money purchase or cash allowances.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC and pension scheme rules provide that defined benefit pension benefits may not be drawn before age 55.
Freedom and Choice regulations introduced by the United Kingdom Government in 2015 have impacted the flexibility for pension scheme members in transferring benefits out of pension schemes.
Consistent with arrangements for other members of the relevant pension schemes, accrued defined benefits pensions may be transferred out to the beneficiary in accordance with the transfer arrangements established by the trustees or in the case of the company funded arrangements, at the amount accrued in the Group accounts in respect of such benefits at the point of transfer.
BENEFITS IN KIND AND OTHER ALLOWANCES Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Designed to be competitive in the market.
Benefits vary by role, and are reviewed periodically to ensure they are reasonable relative to market.
There is no maximum value of a core Operation benefit package as this is dependent on the cost to the employing Benefits in kind and other allowances can include: company and the individuals circumstances.
Health-care benefits, life assurance cover, company car allowance, and Participation in the BAYE scheme is subject to HMRC limits.
Opportunities to join the Buy As You Earn BAYE scheme.
Performance metrics Relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
Benefits in kind and other allowances are predicated on continued good performance by the director.
Business related travel and subsistence costs will be met or reimbursed including directors partners attending corporate events or management conferences.
Where the Committee considers it appropriate other benefits may be provided, including on recruitment or relocation.
2.2Variable pay PERFORMANCE-RELATED ANNUAL CASH BONUSES Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Aims to focus the Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual The potential annual bonus that can be earned by an executive targets relating to Group performance.
director in respect of any financial year may never exceed 150% of basic salary.
The maximum annual bonus would be set each year Operation within a range of 100% to 150% of basic salary, of which no more than Around the start of each financial year, the Committee agrees specific 50% of any actual bonus award in the year will be settled in cash.
objectives for each executive director.
Following the end of each financial Performance metrics year, the Remuneration Committee determines the performance-related annual bonus for each executive director for the year just ended.
This is The performance conditions for the annual bonus awards are subject to based on each directors performance in achieving the set objectives, and a combination of financial objectives and individual business related affordability for the Group.
Around the start of each financial year, the Committee will determine one In accordance with the rules of the Executive Participation Plan the or more financial measures that will apply for bonus purposes for that EPP, at least 50% of any actual bonus will be deferred as shares.
The Committee will also determine the maximum potential bonus Claw-back and malus provisions will apply to the cash and deferred amount expressed as a percentage of basic salary that an executive elements of the annual bonus.
director will have the ability to earn in respect of each financial measure.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 52 Directors remuneration report 8.4.
2.2 Variable pay continued PERFORMANCE-RELATED ANNUAL CASH BONUSES continued The aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives will be between 70% and 120% of basic salary.
For each financial measure, the Committee will determine the performance levels that will trigger Threshold, Target and Maximum payout.
The Threshold amount for a given financial measure will be triggered on the minimum performance that needs to be achieved to earn any bonus in respect of that measure.
The Maximum amount is the maximum potential bonus in respect of that measure.
The Target amount will be the arithmetic average of the Threshold and Maximum amounts.
For each financial measure: The maximum potential bonus amount, payable only on the achievement of Maximum performance is the amount set by the Committee subject to the overall aggregate limits explained above.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be 50% of the maximum potential bonus amount where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is 70% of basic salary.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be 25% of the maximum potential bonus amount where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is 120% of basic salary.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be between 25% and 50% of the maximum potential bonus amount, determined on a straight-line basis, where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is greater than 70% but less than 120% of basic salary.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of performance between the Threshold and the Maximum will be between a the bonus amount payable on Threshold performance and b the maximum potential bonus, determined on a straight-line basis proportionate to the extent actual performance exceeds Threshold performance.
The tables below provide examples of how the above policy may be implemented.
Example 1: Bonus potential of 70% of basic pay for financial performance: Financial objectives Maximum Potential payout as a percentage of: Potential Threshold Target Maximum Maximum award level 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% Basic pay 70.0% 35.0% 52.5% 70.0% Example 2: Bonus potential of 120% of basic pay for financial performance: Financial objectives Maximum Potential payout as a percentage of: Potential Threshold Target Maximum Maximum award level 25.0% 62.5% 100.0% Basic pay 120.0% 30.0% 75.0% 120.0% The aggregate maximum potential bonus amount for achievement of the individual business related objectives will be between 30% and 45% of basic pay.
A number of objectives are set for the individual business related objectives.
To the extent that a particular objective is satisfied then there would be a payout in respect of that objective.
If the objective is not satisfied then there is no payout in respect of that objective.
The minimum level of performance required to be met for payout for each of the discrete objectives is that specified in the objectives.
In assessing the level of bonuses that will be paid, including individual business related objectives, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the level of any payouts after taking into account the financial performance and standing of the Group and the overall individual performance of the relevant director.
So, even where one or more of the specified objectives have been achieved, the Committee has the discretion to pay no or a reduced bonus.
Further details of the performance measures used for the 2018 bonus are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration in section 8.5.
page 52 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 53 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Purpose and link to strategy objectives Performance metrics Aims to align the interests of shareholders and management in Awards granted prior to 25 August 2017 are subject to the terms of the 2014 remuneration policy that was in effect up to that date.
growing the return to shareholders and the value of the business over the long-term.
Awards granted from 25 August 2017 are subject to the following arrangements.
Operation Awards are subject to two performance conditions, with one half of Participants are awarded Incentive Units, which have a nominal value annual awards being made based on relative total shareholder return equal to one of the Groups ordinary shares.
Incentive Units can be in TSR, and the other half based on challenging profit targets set by the form of a conditional award, a cash award or a nil-cost option.
the Committee for a three-year period.
Awards are subject to malus, and all awards granted after 25 August TSR is calculated as the movement in share value after taking account 2017 are subject to both malus and claw-back.
The Committee may of re-invested dividends.
TSR is measured relative to an appropriate adjust and amend awards only in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
comparator group of FTSE 250 companies or other peer grouping of Subject to performance conditions, Incentive Units vest around three companies in the public transport industry.
years after the date of award.
In setting targets for the profit based performance condition the Committee may take into account a range of factors such as: Maximum value The maximum awards granted in relation to any financial year for an internal and external factors affecting the Group: individual is limited to Incentive Units with an aggregate face value at the long-term expectations for each of the operating divisions: and the time of award, not exceeding 150% of basic salary.
The actual value of the awards at vesting will reflect the face value of the analysts consensus expectations for the operating divisions and the Incentive Units at the time of award but also subsequent movements Group as a whole.
in the Companys share price, dividends paid by the Company and For the Incentive Units awarded that are subject to the TSR condition, actual performance relative to the performance metrics.
vesting will be as follows: If the TSR does not exceed the median of the comparator group, then none of the relevant Incentive Units awarded will vest and they will lapse: If the TSR exceeds the median of the comparator group which is the threshold performance level, then one-quarter 25% of the available Incentive Units will vest and the remainder will lapse: If the TSR is in the top quartile of the comparator group, then all of the available Incentive Units will vest: If the TSR is higher than the median but less than the top quartile of the comparator group, then the proportion of the Incentive Units that will vest would be between 25% and 100% of the available Incentive Units adjusted on a straight-line basis depending on the actual ranking against the comparator group.
For the Incentive Units awarded that are subject to the profit condition, vesting will be as follows: If the profit achievement is below the target for threshold vesting set by the Remuneration Committee, then none of the relevant available Incentive Units will vest and they will all lapse: If the profit achievement equals the target for threshold vesting set by the Remuneration Committee which is the threshold performance level, then one-quarter 25% of the available Incentive Units will vest and the remainder will lapse: If the profit achievement equals or exceeds the target for maximum vesting set by the Remuneration Committee then all of the available Incentive Units will vest: If the profit achievement is higher than the threshold vesting target but less than the maximum vesting target, then the proportion of the Incentive Units that will vest would be between 25% and 100% of the available Incentive Units adjusted on a straight-line basis depending on the profit achieved.
The performance conditions are tested over a three-year period, being the three years commencing on or around the 1 May or 1 November immediately preceding the date of the relevant award.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 54 Directors remuneration report 8.4.
2.2 Variable pay continued ExECUTIVE PARTICIPATION PLAN EPP Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Aims to align the interests of managers and shareholders by awarding At least 50% of any actual bonus earned in the year will be deferred as interests in shares out of the annual bonus award.
By agreement with the Remuneration It is also designed to provide an incentive for managers to remain with Committee, more than 50% may be deferred.
Additional shares are allocated in respect of dividends payable during the relevant period.
Operation The actual value of the awards at vesting will reflect the face value of Participants are awarded Deferred Shares with a minimum 3 year the Deferred Shares at the time of award but also subsequent vesting period, which can be issued as either a conditional award or a movements in the Companys share price and dividends paid by the nil-cost option, with an initial market value approximately equal to the Company.
amount of the actual cash bonus forgone.
Performance metrics Unvested awards are subject to malus.
The EPP is an effective retention programme in that participants would lose their entitlement to the Deferred Shares if, save for good leaver provisions, they left of their own volition during the three-year deferral period.
It also increases participants effective equity interests in the Group and so better aligns their interests with shareholders.
There are no specific performance conditions attaching to the release of Deferred Shares because the annual bonus under which the Deferred Shares are earned is already subject to performance conditions.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk taking.
As part of the Directors remuneration policy, the Committee reserves the right to make minor amendments to the policies set out for regulatory, exchange control, administrative or tax purposes.
3 Remuneration policy table for the Non-Executive Directors The table below summarises our policy on the remuneration paid to our Non-Executive Directors.
BASICSALARY FEES Purpose and link to strategy objectives related expenses and travel and accommodation expenses will be met or reimbursed including for partners to corporate events or management To attract and retain non-executive directors with an appropriate conferences.
Home telephone and communications costs may be met or degree of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the reimbursed.
To attract and retain a Chairman and Deputy Chairman to provide Maximum value effective leadership for the Board.
Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
Operation Non-Executive Directors fees are subject to an aggregate maximum Fee levels for non-executive directors are generally reviewed by the Board cap which is stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Following annually with any adjustments effective 1 May in the year following review shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, that cap although there is discretion to adjust them at other times of the year.
was set at 1,200,000 and may subsequently be further adjusted by an Account is taken of individual responsibilities, involvement in Board ordinary resolution of the Company.
That cap, as adjusted from timecommittees and fees for similar roles in comparable companies.
to-time, is the only limit in place that acts as setting a maximum value Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a non-executive for fees payable to non-executive directors.
Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for acting as Performance metrics Chairman.
Non-executive directors do not participate in pensions or incentive benefits, or receive other remuneration in addition to their fees.
4 Employment conditions across the Group The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors remuneration policy, the wider employee group is not formally consulted.
In determining any adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group executive salaries, the Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
5 Consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year at its first meeting following the Annual General Meeting.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during other meetings with shareholders and representative bodies, is then considered when reviewing remuneration policy.
When any material changes are proposed by the Group to the remuneration policy, the Committee will consult major shareholders.
6 External appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other unconnected companies and to retain any related remuneration, as this will broaden and enrich the business skills of the directors so long as the time commitments do not have any detrimental impact on the ability of the director to fulfil his duties.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Board.
page 54 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 55 8.5 Annual Remuneration Report This section of the remuneration report provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year ended 28 April 2018.
1 Committee members The Remuneration Committee is currently composed of three independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Group Director of Tax and Employee Benefits attended as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive attended meetings to provide information on performance and strategy.
A representative from the Committees independent external remuneration advisor attended meetings during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in section 4.10.
No director was involved in decisions as to their own remuneration.
The members who served on the Committee during the year ended 28 April 2018 were: Julie Southern Chair Gregor Alexander James Bilefield The remuneration of executive directors was not considered by any other Committee or group of directors during the year.
2 Advisers The Committee retained Osborne Clarke LLP as its remuneration consultant to provide access to independent research and advice.
It has no other connection to the Group.
12,697 2017: 10,211 was payable to Osborne Clarke LLP in respect of work it carried out in the year ended 28 April 2018.
The fees payable were determined by Osborne Clarke LLP with reference to time spent and applicable hourly rates.
We do not consider the level of fees paid or the nature of the work performed would prejudice the objectivity or independence of Osborne Clarke LLP.
3 Remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors audited The remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may comprise a number of elements, as described in the Directors remuneration policy.
Directors remuneration and the single figure total for the year ended 28 April 2018 are shown in Table 1 below.
Each of the elements of remuneration is discussed further below.
Basic Salary fees Salary is paid monthly and the basic salary fees in Table 1 correspond to the amounts payable in respect of the financial year ended April.
Both Executive Directors participated in pension salary sacrifice arrangements during the year and the basic salary amounts are shown gross before any salary sacrifice arrangements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 56 Directors remuneration report 8.5.
3 Remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors audited continued ii.
Benefits in kind and other allowances Reimbursement Employer TABLE 2 BENEFITS IN KIND Cash allowance in lieu Healthcare Total of home BAYE of company car benefits AND OTHER ALLOWANCES telephone expenses contributions 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Martin Griffiths 22,000 22,000 1,086 964 1,549 1,906 214 202 24,849 25,072 Ross Paterson 22,000 22,000 1,086 964 214 202 23,300 23,166 Sir Brian Souter 350 337 350 337 During the year, both Executive Directors participated in the Buy As You Earn BAYE Plan.
We believe that the BAYE plan aligns the interests of employees and shareholders by allowing all UK employees of the Group to purchase shares out of their salary.
It is designed to aid staff motivation and retention.
The maximum employee purchase is governed by HMRC limits and is currently 1,800 per annum.
The Group provides two matching shares for every share purchased on the first 10 of each employees monthly investment.
The amounts shown in Table 2 are the values of such matching shares allocated to directors as at the dates of allocation.
Details of the shares held under the BAYE plan are shown in Table 13. iii.
Performance-related bonus Around the start of each financial year, the Committee agrees specific objectives for each executive director.
Following the end of each financial year, the Committee determines the annual bonus for each executive director for the year just ended.
This is based on the directors performance in achieving the set objectives.
The objectives comprise both financial objectives for the Group and individual business related objectives for each director.
For each executive director, the Group financial objectives for the year ended 28 April 2018 were with respect to adjusted measures of profit before interest and taxation, earnings per share, and net debt.
For the year ended 28 April 2018, Martin Griffiths and Ross Paterson each had a maximum potential bonus of up to 100% of basic salary, with 70% allocated over a range of financial objectives and 30% for meeting individual business related objectives.
As explained in the statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in section 8.1 of this Annual Report, the Committee considered that the disappointing outcome on Virgin Trains East Coast should be considered in determining the Executive Directors bonuses for the year ended 28 April 2018.
2.2, in assessing the level of bonuses to be paid, including in respect of personal objectives, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the level of any awards taking into account the financial performance and standing of the Group and the overall individual performance of the relevant director.
The Committee exercised its discretion on the level of bonus awards granted and it agreed that the actual bonuses awarded to each director would be less than the amounts they would have been entitled to if based simply on determining the bonuses with reference to the performance against the objectives set at the start of the year.
As a result, it was agreed that no bonus would be awarded to the Chief Executive and that the cash element of the bonus would not be awarded to the Finance Director.
The maximum potential awards and the performance-related assessment in respect of the year ended 28 April 2018 are summarised in Table 3: TABLE 3 ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive Finance Director ANNUAL BONUSES FOR THE YEAR ENDED Performance Performance 28 APRIL 2018 Maximum bonus Related Assessment Maximum bonus Related Assessment % of basic salary % of basic salary % of basic salary % of basic salary Annual bonus in respect of financial objectives See Table 4 70.0% 67.2% 70.0% 67.2% Annual bonus in respect of personal objectives See Tables 5 and 6 30.0% 24.0% 30.0% 24.0% Personal Related Assessment 100.0% 91.2% 100.0% 91.2% Reduction through Committees discretion awards declined 91.2% 45.6% Bonus Awarded 100.0% 100.0% 45.6% Applying the bonus awards from Table 3, the Finance Director would receive an award only of Deferred Shares 3 year deferral for the amount of the bonus of 198,223. page 56 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 57 Details of the Directors personal objectives for the year ended 28 April 2018 are shown in Tables 5 and 6.
TABLE 4 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Maximum Level of Threshold Target Maximum Potential Bonus Performance Proportion of maximum potential bonus achievable: 50% 75% 100% Achieved % of basic salary % of basic salary Consolidated adjusted profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group companies 154.7m 171.8m 189.0m 180.9m 23.4% 20.6% Consolidated adjusted earnings per share EPS 21.1p 23.4p 25.7p 26.2p 23.3% 23.3% Consolidated net debt Net Debt 646.1m 621.1m 596.1m 400.7m 23.3% 23.3% Element of bonus related to Group financial objectives 70.0% 67.2% The PBIT and EPS measures shown above are determined in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards but adjusted to exclude intangible asset expenses, exceptional items, and rail franchise bid costs.
The PBIT measure also excludes any share of profit or loss from joint ventures.
The Net Debt measure is determined in accordance with the definition of net debt given in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements, adjusted to exclude: i any unbudgeted over or under spend on rail franchise bid costs.
ii the impact of unbudgeted transactions with shareholders such as additional dividends or other distributions.
iii the impact of currency translation on opening and closing debt balances.
The actual values achieved in respect of each of the three measures are adjusted to exclude the impact of any acquisitions and disposals of businesses that were not included in determining the target values.
The Committee separately assessed the extent to which each executive director achieved the personal objectives that were set for them in respect of the year ended 28 April 2018.
As noted above, even where one or more of the specified objectives have been achieved, the Committee has the discretion to pay no or a reduced bonus.
However, the Committee is not of the view that it necessarily follows that there should be no payouts in respect of personal objectives in circumstances where some or all of the financial objectives for the year are not met.
Indeed, the financial objectives for the annual bonus are relatively short-term in nature, while the personal objectives can encompass matters that are important to the long-term development and performance of the Group.
For example, the Board and the Committee regard maintaining an appropriate health and safety culture as important to the Groups long-term success and look to reflect that in the Chief Executives objectives.
The Committee believes executives should be incentivised to ensure effective health and safety arrangements are maintained even if, or as a consequence of which, shorter term financial targets are not met.
It similarly looks to balance shorter term and longer term considerations in assessing bonus payouts in relation to other personal objectives.
The Executive Directors personal objectives for the year ended 28 April 2018 and the Committees assessment of the extent that they were met are summarised in Tables 5 for Chief Executive and 6 for Finance Director.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 58 Directors remuneration report TABLE 5 CHIEF ExECUTIVES PERSONAL OBJECTIVES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 APRIL 2018 Objectives Relating to: Committees assessment of the extent objective was met Potential bonus Bonus entitlement % of basic salary % of basic salary Leadership on health The Committee consulted with the Health, Safety and Environmental 6.0% 6.0% and safety performance Committee in assessing the extent to which the Chief Executives health across all business units and safety objective had been achieved.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee noted that the Chief Executive continued to take a lead on health and safety matters, including the promotion and achievement of continual improvement in health and safety performance across all business units and the promotion of an appropriate safety culture, and reported to it at each meeting.
Based on its interaction with the Chief Executive and its monitoring of health and safety performance indicators during the year, the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee considered the objective to be met and the Remuneration Committee concurred.
Implementation of a The Committee acknowledged the rail franchising strategy that was 6.0% Nil strategy for rail developed and approved by the Board and further noted the planning franchising activities that had progressed in the UK Rail Division in order to support the implementation of the strategy.
The Committee also noted that the Group had expended significant resource and energies to maintain a constructive working relationship with the UK Department for Transport.
The Committee also noted that as at the year end the Group retained a profitable interest in UK Rail and was involved in three live franchise bids.
When taken against the position at the start of the year, the Committee considered that much good progress had been achieved, but it nevertheless considered that given the outcome on Virgin Trains East Coast, that this objective was not achieved.
Strategic review of The Chief Executive led the review that resulted in the restructuring of 6.0% 6.0% North American the North American business segments.
The Committee agreed that as operations a result of the restructuring across North American operations, the level of profitability in the contract business had increased and therefore concluded the objective had been met.
People and Talent The Chief Executive leads the Groups approach on people 6.0% 6.0% Development development, talent pool progression, engagement and training.
During the year, the Chief Executive reshaped and strengthened the UK Bus management team, with a particular focus on commercial development and management leadership, supporting the succession arrangements within the business.
Successful pilots have also been introduced making use of the Apprentice Levy arrangements and we have become the first UK Bus company to successfully adopt the Institute of Apprenticeships bus driver standards to enhance new driver skills.
We have also commenced a review of our successful graduate programme which has supported the careers of many of the Groups managers, to ensure we further strengthen the digital and commercial elements of that programme.
The Chief Executive continues to lead on the development of our talent pool, where we have been pleased to see a number of our developing managers progressing successfully into director roles across the business.
We continue to make progress on diversity and inclusion, and are setting targets across our business to support the aspirations of all of our employees to realise their full potential to contribute to the success of the businesses.
Taking account of these and other factors, the Committee considered the objective to be met.
Implementation of The Committee acknowledged the three-year digital and technology 6.0% 6.0% the Group digital strategy that was developed and approved by the Digital and Technology strategy Committee in the prior year.
Noting the range of measures taken through changes to strengthen the organisational structure in order to support the implementation and delivery of this strategy, and the good progress being made against a range of digital related performance indicators, the Committee considered the objective to be met.
Percentage of basic salary earned in respect of personal objectives 30.0% 24.0% page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 59 TABLE 6 FINANCE DIRECTORS PERSONAL OBJECTIVES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 APRIL 2018 Objectives Relating to: Committees assessment of the extent objective was met Potential bonus Bonus entitlement % of basic salary % of basic salary Maintain an investment The Finance Director is responsible for managing the relationships with 6.0% 6.0% grade credit rating the ratings agencies and for the overall financial management of the Group.
The Committee considered this objective to have been met, noting that the parent company had held three investment grade credit ratings one from each of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch throughout the year.
Secure an agreement The Committee noted that the Group had made significant progress 6.0% Nil with the Department for with the Department for Transport on the contractual terms relating to Transport in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast.
However, it nevertheless considered that the Virgin Trains East given the outcome on Virgin Trains East Coast, that this objective was Coast franchise not achieved.
Enhance the Groups The Finance Director was responsible for improving the Group periodic 6.0% 6.0% periodic reporting management accounts and KPI reporting for management and the cycle Board.
The Committee noted that a new four-weekly KPI pack had been developed, taking account of Board feedback and that the new form of four-weekly pack is shared with the Board on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Committee noted that significant enhancements have been made to the Groups IT & Digital Dashboard.
Short and longer versions of the dashboard are now issued four-weekly, and include KPIs to monitor the performance of the Groups key digital retail channels.
Support the The Finance Director has had a high level involvement in documenting 6.0% 6.0% documentation and the digital and technology strategy that was approved by the Digital delivery of the and Technology Committee and supported the organisational changes Groups digital and necessary for the implementation and delivery of this strategy.
The technology plan Committee considered the objective to be met.
Enhance reporting The Committee noted that the quality of information and analysis 6.0% 6.0% and analytics within on UK Bus regional operations commercial passenger revenue, UK Bus regional transaction and journey numbers has been improved through a operations number of initiatives, including improved trend analysis reports, a new Revenue and Passenger Analysis System RAPAS and appointments to enhance finance business partnering and decision analysis.
The Committee was satisfied that significant progress was made in the year and the Committee considered the objective to be met.
Percentage of basic salary earned in respect of personal objectives 30.0% 24.0% iv.
LTIP No amount is shown in Table 1 in respect of the LTIP vestings for the year ended 28 April 2018.
The December 2014 award achieved a ranking of 213 out of the 227 companies in the comparator group throughout the performance period, and so did not pay out.
Similarly, no amount is included for the June 2015 awards as it is considered unlikely they will pay out.
TABLE 7 LTIPAWARDS Amounts treated as vested for As at 29 April Dividends Lapsed As at 28 April included in inclusion in Table 1 2017 in year during year 2018 Table 1 including Incentive Incentive Incentive Incentive dividend amounts Grant date Units Units Units Units Vesting Date Martin Griffiths 11 Dec 14 134,145 6,460 140,605 11 Dec 17 25 Jun 15 123,260 9,431 132,691 25 Jun 18 Ross Paterson 11 Dec 14 89,429 4,306 93,735 11 Dec 17 25 Jun 15 82,171 6,288 88,459 25 Jun 18 LTIP awards vested in June 2017 In the 2017 Annual Report an estimate of nil value was included in respect of the June 2014 LTIP awards, and it is confirmed that this was in accordance with the actual vesting as no payment was made on vesting in June 2017.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 60 Directors remuneration report v. Pension related benefits The pension amounts shown in Table 1 are calculated in accordance with the provisions of the 2013 Regulations and so represent 20 times the increase excluding inflation in the accrued annual pension entitlement plus the increase excluding inflation in the accrued cash lump sum entitlement, less contributions paid by the director.
External Appointments Martin Griffiths is a non-executive director of AG Barr plc, and was permitted to retain the 57,148 fees received from this position in the year ended 28 April 2018 2017: 56,289.
Ross Paterson was appointed as a non-executive director of The Unite Group plc on 21 September 2017.
He was permitted to retain the 30,755 fees received from this position for the period from 21 September 2017 to 28 April 2018 2017: Nil.
4 Pensions audited Under the legacy terms of their service agreements, the Executive Directors accrued benefits under defined benefit pension arrangements.
Historic benefits previously accrued under an HMRC approved pension scheme and included in Table 8 below were revalued only for inflation.
The directors accrued benefits in the year ended 28 April 2018 under Group funded pension arrangements.
Other than adjustments for inflation, no further benefits accrued under the HMRC approved Group defined benefit pension scheme during the year.
Pension benefits are targeted with a normal retirement age of 60 and in accordance with HMRC rules, accrued defined benefits may not be drawn before age 55.
Table 8 below provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and gives details of benefits accruing during the year under the Groups pension arrangements.
TABLE 8 DIRECTORS PENSION Contributions paid Accrued Accrued BENEFITS Normal by the director Accrued cash annual pension Accrued cash annual pension Retirement for the year ended entitlement at entitlement at entitlement at entitlement at date 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 29 April 2017 28 April 2018 28 April 2018 000 000 000 000 000 Martin Griffiths 31 March 2026 58 169 153 174 176 Ross Paterson 29 July 2031 38 138 87 142 102 The totals above include pension benefits accrued for service prior to appointment as a director of the Company.
Directors contributions to pension schemes as shown in Table 8 above are made by way of salary sacrifice arrangements.
No non-executive directors accrued benefits in the year under money purchase schemes or defined benefit schemes in connection with their roles with the Group.
5 EPP and LTIP awards during the financial year audited Tables 9 and 11 set out the awards to the Executive Directors under the Companys share schemes during the year ended 28 April 2018.
TABLE 9 LTIP AWARDS IN YEAR Awards Expected Face Type of Share price at granted in year total value at value at Performance interest time of award Basis Incentive time of grant time of grant Vesting period awarded of award Units Date approximate Martin Griffiths 25 Aug 17 Incentive 1.7450 75% of 280,229 334,565 489,000 25 Aug 20 1 May 2017 - Units basic salary 30 April 2020 7 Dec 17 Incentive 1.7800 75% of 274,719 334,567 489,000 7 Dec 20 1 Nov 2017 - Units basic salary 31 Oct 2020 Ross Paterson 25 Aug 17 Incentive 1.7450 75% of 186,833 223,060 326,024 25 Aug 20 1 May 2017 - Units basic salary 30 April 2020 7 Dec 17 Incentive 1.7800 75% of 183,160 223,060 326,025 7 Dec 20 1 Nov 2017 - Units basic salary 31 Oct 2020 Each Incentive Unit shown in Table 9 has a notional face value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares and was granted as a cash-settled award.
The closing price on the preceding dealing day was used to determine the number of Incentive Units.
The face values shown above ignore non-market vesting conditions and do not include any assumed share price appreciation or dividends paid.
The actual number of Incentive Units if any which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved.
Both awards are subject to two performance conditions.
One half of the award is based on TSR, where the TSR over the performance period must exceed the median of the comparator group, which is the list of FTSE 250 companies over the period.
The amount of units awarded which are released will range from 25% to 100% depending on the actual ranking achieved.
A top quartile ranking is required to achieve a 100% release of units.
No units will vest for belowthreshold performance.
The other half of each award is based on targets set for a measure of EPS over a three-year period.
The threshold and upper performance targets for each award over the three year performance period are as follows: TABLE 10 EPSPERFORMANCE CRITERIA Award date Threshold Maximum 25 Aug 17 24.4p 25.7p 7 Dec 17 24.4p 25.7p 25% of the Incentive Units would vest for a threshold level of performance and 100% for maximum performance.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis would be applied between these lower and upper vesting levels.
page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 61 TABLE 11 EPP AWARDS IN YEAR Maximum and Share price Awards expected total Type of at time granted in value of award interest of award Basis year Deferred at time of grant Vesting Performance Award date awarded of award Shares Date period Martin Griffiths 29 Jun 17 Deferred Shares 1.9110 50% of 79,105 151,170 29 Jun 20 n a annual bonus Ross Paterson 29 Jun 17 Deferred Shares 1.9110 50% of 51,072 97,599 29 Jun 20 n a annual bonus Each Deferred Share shown in Table 11 has a notional face value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares.
The maximum and total expected values ignore non-market vesting conditions and do not include any assumed share price appreciation or dividends paid.
There are no specific performance conditions attaching to the release of these Deferred Shares because the annual bonus is already subject to performance conditions.
6 Payments to past directors audited There have been no payments 2017: Nil in excess of the fide minimis threshold to former directors during the year ended 28 April 2018 in respect of their former roles as directors.
The Company has set a fide minimis threshold of 10,000 under which it would not report such payments.
7 Payments for loss of office audited There have been no payments for loss of office to directors during the year ended 28 April 2018 2017: Nil.
8 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited The Executive Directors and certain other senior executives are expected to accumulate significant shareholdings in the Company.
In the case of the Executive Directors, they are each expected to accumulate an effective interest in shares in the Group with a value of at least 200% of basic salary.
A target of 100% was first introduced in 2005 and was amended to 200% in June 2014 following feedback from shareholders.
The Executive Directors are allowed five years from the date of appointment to accumulate the appropriate level of shares.
Where there have been relevant increases in basic salary or significant fluctuations in the share price of the Company, the Committee may allow a further period of three years for directors to adjust their holdings within the shareholding guideline.
For these purposes, EPP Deferred Shares will be counted on a post-tax basis only and all interests in shares will be counted at current value as at the relevant measurement date.
LTIP Incentive Units are not included in this measurement.
As at 28 April 2018, Martin Griffiths had an interest in shares equivalent to 166% 2017: 197% of his basic salary and Ross Paterson an interest in shares equivalent to 135% 2017: 154% of his basic salary.
Both directors have at various points in the previous two years comfortably met the guideline and the Committee also noted that both directors increased their interest in the number of shares held outright during the year.
There was no divestment in the year by either director and they are below the target because of the fall in the Companys share price.
As such the Committee remains satisfied that both directors retained significant interests in the shares of the Company and consistent with the guidelines explained above it is satisfied that the directors should have a period of three years to adjust their holding in shares to achieve the shareholding guideline.
The effective interests of the Directors including those of connected persons as at 28 April 2018 were: Scheme interests vested TABLE 12 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES OF THE Interests as at during year ended GROUP AS AT 28 APRIL 2018 28 April 2018 28 April 2018 LTIPIncentive EPPShares BAYE Shares LTIP Incentive EPPShares Units subject to not subject to not subject to Units subject to not subject to Shares held performance performance performance performance performance outright conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions Executive directors Martin Griffiths 559,367 1,382,733 225,417 5,295 89,179 Ross Paterson 286,581 921,897 148,485 5,295 59,454 Non-executive directors Gregor Alexander 10,406 James Bilefield Sir Ewan Brown see note below Ann Gloag 62,501,721 Ray O'Toole Sir Brian Souter 86,900,445 Julie Southern Karen Thomson Will Whitehorn 72,888 Sir Ewan Brown has an indirect interest in the share capital of the Company.
He and his connected parties own approximately 18% 2017: 18% of the ordinary shares of Noble Grossart Holdings Limited, which in turn through its subsidiary, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, held 3,567,999 ordinary shares in the Company at 28 April 2018 2017: 3,567,999.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 62 Directors remuneration report Further details of directors interests in the LTIP, EPP and BAYE schemes are shown in Table 13 below.
9 Performance graph The graph below charts the performance of the total shareholder return TSR share value movement plus reinvested dividends from the Companys ordinary shares over the nine years to April 2018 compared with that of the FTSE Travel and Leisure All-Share Index, and the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected for this comparison because it is the index currently used by the Company for the TSR based performance criterion for the LTIP Scheme, while the FTSE Travel and Leisure All-Share Index is shown as the Company and a number of its peers make up a significant element of that index.
Stagecoach 9-Year TSR Comparative Performance to April 2018: Stagecoach TSR FTSE 350 Travel &Leisure TSR FTSE 250 TSR 420 380 340 300 260 220 180 140 100 60 20 page 62 | Stagecoach Group plc May-09 Jul-09 Oct-09 Jan-10 Apr-10 Jul-10 Oct-10 Jan-11 Apr-11 Jul-11 Oct-11 Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12 Jan-13 Apr-13 Jul-13 Oct-13 Jan-14 Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 Jul-15 Oct-15 Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18 TAB A CUTIVE Brian Souter before waivers Y April: 2010 2011 2012 2013 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 63 For comparative purposes, the pay for the role of Chief Executive over time is shown in Table 14 below.
TABLE 14 PAY FOR THE ROLE OF CHIEF ExECUTIVE Sir Brian Souter Martin Griffiths Year ended April: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Bonus percentage of maximum 35% 46% 47% 64% 100% 65% 53% 47% 0% LTIP vesting rates against maximum opportunity 100% 0% n a 61% 56% 10% 0% 0% 0% Single figure of total remuneration 000 2,491 1,269 1,227 3,443 2,212 1,451 1,316 1,313 987 Sir Brian Souter waived entitlement to part of his cash bonus, with the amounts waived being used to support funding of medical screening in the UK Bus Divisions.
Therefore the bonus percentages shown in Table 14 above reflect the amounts awarded to Sir Brian net of the waivers.
For information, the full bonus percentage entitlements based on performance and before the waivers are shown in Table 15 below.
LE 15 BONUS WARDED TOCHIEF ExE Sir ear ended Bonus percentage of maximum 80% 90% 90% 90% The total remuneration figures in Table 14 are calculated on the same basis as the single total figure of remuneration for directors shown in Table 1 in section 8.5.
10 Percentage change in Chief Executive Remuneration audited The change in the Chief Executives remuneration from 2016 17 to 2017 18 in comparison to a comparator group of employees is shown in Table 16 below.
TABLE 16 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION FOR THE ROLE Percentage change of Chief Executive Percentage change per capita of employees in OF CHIEF ExECUTIVE the comparator group throughout both years Salary 2.0% 4.3% Benefits 0.9 % 5.6% Bonus 100.0 % 2.2 % The comparator group used comprises over 300 employees including the corporate head office employees, the management teams of each of the Groups divisions and their administrative support staff.
This comparator group was used because the Committee believes it provides a sufficiently large and relative comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, based on similar annual bonus performance measures utilised by Group management and support functions.
The Group seeks to ensure that the basis for pay increases for Group management support functions are generally consistent with the pay rises at UK Bus and Rail operations.
11 Relative importance of spend on pay audited The table below shows the expenditure of the Group on employee remuneration costs in the year ended 28 April 2018 and the year ended 29 April 2017.
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
TABLE 17 SPEND ON PAY RELATIVE TO DIVIDENDS AND STAFF COSTS 2018 2017 Percentage m m change Profit distributed by way of dividend to shareholders 68.3 67.1 1.8% Overall spend on pay for employees 1,284.2 1,436.8 10.6 % The fall in the overall spend on pay for employees reflects the expiry of the Groups South West Trains franchise in August 2017 and the legal transfer of the employees of that business to the new operator.
12 Shareholder voting at general meetings The following table shows the results of the vote on the 2017 remuneration report at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, along with the last vote on the policy, also from the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
TABLE 18 SHAREHOLDER VOTES Directors 2017 Remuneration Report Directors 2017 Remuneration Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 410,449,250 89.38% 435,077,565 94.70% Against 48,780,786 10.62% 24,354,070 5.30% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 459,230,036 100.00% 459,431,635 100.00% Votes withheld 443,680 215,151 Total votes cast including withheld votes 459,673,716 459,646,786 the number of votes for the resolution includes those cast at the Chairmans discretion.
A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 64 Directors remuneration report 8.5.
13 Implementation of remuneration policy in the financial year ending 27 April 2019 In the year ending 27 April 2019, the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors remuneration policies will be implemented as follows.
13.1 Implementation of executive directors remuneration policy 8.5.
1 Fixed elements basic salary The Committee made the following 2018 19 basic salary decisions which are in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
TABLE 19 INCREASES IN BASIC SALARY 2018 19 2017 18 Percentage salary salary change Martin Griffiths 652,000 652,000 0.0% Ross Paterson 434,700 434,700 0.0% Salaries are effective from 1 May each year.
The Committee has considered the broader employee context in determining salaries.
2 Other elements The implementation of policy in relation to other elements of remuneration is in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
The maximum potential bonus award for the year to 27 April 2019 has been set at 130% of basic salary and the nominal value of LTIP awards will be retained at 150% of basic salary.
Short-term incentives Annual Bonus The implementation of policy in relation to annual bonus is in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
Targets are approved by the Remuneration Committee around the beginning of the year.
For 2018 19, each director has a maximum potential bonus of up to 130% of basic salary, with up to 100% being based on achieving demanding financial objectives and up to 30% based on achieving specified personal objectives.
The on-target level of bonus award for financial targets has been set at 67.50% of basic pay, and 30% available for individual business related targets producing a total ontarget level of bonus of 97.5% of basic pay.
Payout at threshold level on the financial targets has been reduced from 50% in 2017 18 to 35% for 2018 19, with payout for maximum performance on demanding financial targets limited to 100% of basic pay.
"The Committee has determined that the element of the potential bonus related to three key financial objectives for 2018 19 will be allocated as follows: TABLE 20 POTENTIAL 2018 19 BONUS PAYOUTS FOR Threshold Target FINANCIALOBJECTIVES performance performance Maximum % of basic % of basic Bonus % of salary salary basic salary Consolidated profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group companies 11.67% 22.50% 33.34% Consolidated adjusted earnings per share EPS 11.67% 22.50% 33.33% Consolidated net debt ""Net Debt"" 11.66% 22.50% 33.33% Element of bonus related to Group financial objectives 35.00% 67.50% 100.00% The three measures listed in Table 20 will be defined consistently with 2017 18 see note iii to Table 1, except that: PBIT and EPS amounts will be measured after deducting software amortisation whereas for 2017 18 PBIT and EPS were measured exclusive of all intangible asset amortisation PBIT and EPS amounts will be measured after deducting all rail franchise bid costs whereas for 2017 18 PBIT and EPS were measured exclusive of all rail franchise bid costs Net debt amounts will be measured without adjustment for unbudgeted variances in rail franchise bid costs whereas for 2017 18 actual net debt was adjusted for unbudgeted variances in rail franchise bid costs."
3 of this report, detailed information has been provided in relation to a the financial targets for annual bonus purposes for the year ended 28 April 2018 and b the Executive Directors personal objectives for the year ended 28 April 2018 and the Committees assessment of the extent that they were met.
The Committee is of the view that the values of the 2018 19 performance targets for the financial measures under the annual bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose these before the end of the financial year.
The targets and achievements in respect of the year ending 27 April 2019 will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the 2018 19 individual business related objectives are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal management projects, strategic objectives and personal goals and it is not intended that these will be disclosed in advance.
The Committees intention is that a summary of these objectives will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report to the extent it considers that they are no longer considered commercially sensitive.
50% of any actual bonus earned in the year would ordinarily be deferred as shares under the EPP.
Long-term incentives LTIP awards LTIP awards vest after three years subject to performance conditions.
A summary of the intended awards during the year ending 27 April 2019 and the nature of the performance conditions are provided in Table 21 below.
TABLE 21 INTENDED LTIP AWARDS Percentage of Face value of award award vesting for Length of at maximum vesting threshold Performance Award Type Performance metric % of 2018 19 salary achievement period Martin Griffiths Incentive Units TSR relative against FTSE 250 75% 25% 3 years Incentive Units Profitability targets 75% 25% 3 years Ross Paterson Incentive Units TSR relative against FTSE 250 75% 25% 3 years Incentive Units Profitability targets 75% 25% 3 years In all cases, LTIP awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of awards.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:56 Page 65 Long-term incentives LTIP awards continued Awards are generally made twice a year following the announcement of the annual results in June, and in December following the issue of the results for the half-year.
For 2017 18, however, the first tranche of LTIP awards were made following the shareholders vote on the policy at the Annual General Meeting on 25 August 2017.
The maximum level of awards granted for an individual in relation to any financial year is limited to Incentive Units with an aggregate face value at the time of award not exceeding 150% of basic salary.
The 2018 19 awards will be split one half based on TSR performance against a comparator group of the FTSE 250 companies, and the other half based on a measure of profitability.
For any TSR based awards to vest, the TSR must exceed the median of the comparator group and the amount of Incentive Units awarded which are released will range from 25% to 100% of the available Incentive Units depending on the actual ranking.
A top quartile ranking is required to achieve 100% release of units.
Demanding profitability targets will be set for the other half of the awards based on relevant market factors and expectations for the Group as at the date of award and a sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis would be applied between the lower and upper vesting levels.
13.2 Implementation of non-executive directors remuneration policy Annual fees for 2018 19 The implementation of policy in relation to the Non-Executive Directors is in line with the Directors remuneration policy.
Each non-executive directors fee is set by the Board taking account of the views of each director, the specific responsibilities of each director and the fees for equivalent roles in similar companies.
There are no changes to the fees for non-executive directors for the 2018 19 financial year.
The fees per annum for the NonExecutive Directors for 2017 18 and the amount set for 2018 19 are set out in Table 22 below.
TABLE 22 NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES 2018 19 fees 2017 18 fees Chairman 217,400 217,400 Deputy chairman 153,000 153,000 Other non-executive directors range 52,500 - 60,900 52,500-60,900 Stagecoach Group plc | page 65
