notes to the Financial statements financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Statement of compliance Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Chartered The consolidated and Company financial statements have been PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and convention, as modified by the revaluation of cash-settled sharejointly controlled entities.
based payments, fair value through other comprehensive income, and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value The parent company financial statements present information about through profit or loss.
the Company as a separate entity.
Both the parent company financial statements and the Group Significant accounting estimates and judgements financial statements have been prepared and approved by the In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may The Groups estimates and assumptions are based on historical differ from IFRS published by the International Accounting Standards experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed Board IASB if a standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty and The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 judgement, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes for the of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of following areas: comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
Credit impairment Note 8 The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review form part Taxation Note 10 of these financial statements: Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value Note 13 a From the start of Risk profile section page 140 to the end of other Goodwill impairment Note 17 principal risks in the same section page 192 excluding: Provisions for liabilities and charges Note 24 Credit quality by geographic region, page 151 Retirement benefit obligations Note 30 Credit quality by industry, page 153 Investments in associates and joint ventures Note 32 Forborne and other modified loans by region page 162 Credit-impaired stage 3 loans by geographic region, page 164 IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements Industry and Retail products analysis by geographic region, As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the page 170 differences in accounting practices between EU-endorsed IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be Asset-backed securities, page 174 disclosed.
There would be no significant differences had these Country risk, page 180 accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
Risks not in VaR, page 182 Backtesting, page 182 Comparatives Prior period comparatives are presented on an IAS 39 Financial Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 183 Instruments: Recognition and Measurement basis Refer to the Liquidity coverage ratio LCR, page 185 31 December 2017 audited financial statements for the IAS 39 accounting policies.
Certain comparatives have been changed to Stressed coverage, page 185 align with current year disclosures.
The main changes are in respect Net stable funding ratio NSFR, page 186 of IFRS 9 see below.
Liquidity pool, page 186 Amortised cost reverse repurchase agreements and other similar lending balances have been included with Loans and advances to Encumbrance, page 187 customers and Loans and advances to banks as appropriate.
Interest rate risk in the banking book, page 191 In addition, the comparatives for commitments disclosed in Note 25 Operational risk, page 192 Contingent liabilities and commitments have been restated, as a result of the availability of more reliable, centralised information Other principal risks, page 192 following the implementation of IFRS 9.
The ageing of commitments b Capital review: from the start of Capital Requirements Directive is now based on residual rather than original maturity.
The Risk CRD IV capital base to the end of Impact of IFRS 9 on CET1, profile has similarly been updated.
These changes have not resulted excluding capital ratios and risk-weighted assets RWA in any amendments to the reported income statement or balance sheet of the Group.
