Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 24.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Accounting policy The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or constructive obligation resulting from a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to transfer economic benets to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at a specified date, the obligation is recognised in the financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the period.
Signi cant accounting estimates and judgements The recognition and measurement of provisions for liabilities and charges requires significant judgement and the use of estimates about uncertain future conditions or events.
Estimates include the best estimate of the probability of outow of economic resources, cost of settling a provision and timing of settlement.
Judgements are required for inherently uncertain areas such as legal decisions including external advice obtained, and outcome of regulator reviews.
31.12.18 31.12.17 Provision Provision for credit Other for credit Other commitments provisions Total commitments provisions Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 31 December IAS 39 83 100 183 109 104 213 IFRS 9 expected credit loss 176 176 At 1 January IFRS 9 259 100 359 109 104 213 Exchange translation differences 9 1 10 2 1 1 Transfer 39 39 Charge release against profit 39 956 995 23 83 60 Provisions utilised 8 45 53 1 88 89 At 31 December 281 1,049 1,330 83 100 183 Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions consists mainly of provisions for regulatory settlements and legal claims including provisions for potential penalties relating to the US investigation, the FCA decision and the previously disclosed foreign exchange trading issues, the nature of which are described in Note 26 page 305.
Contingent liabilities and commitments Accounting policy Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised because either an outow of economic benets is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any outow of economic benets in settlement is remote.
Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups Transaction Banking business, for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date, those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs ofcials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
Commitments are where the Group has confirmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date: those instruments are included in these financial statement as commitments.
Capital commitments are contractual commitments the Group has entered into to purchase non-financial assets.
