159166 STC AR18 Back PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Back v19 05 07 2018 16:01 Page 140 Notes to the Company financial statements Note 1 Parent company accounting policies These financial statements are presented in respect of Stagecoach Group plc.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited liability company limited by shares.
It is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its registered number is SC100764 and its registered address is 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth, Perthshire, PH1 5TW.
The Company financial statements are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced DIsclosure Framework FRS 101.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost accounting convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the legal dispensation contained in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 allowing it not to publish a separate income statement and related notes.
The Company has also taken advantage of the legal dispensation contained in Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 allowing it not to publish a separate statement of other comprehensive income.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, in accordance with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Paragraphs 10 d, 10 f and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IAS 7, Statement of cash flows Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures The requirements in IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group Intangible assets Intangible assets, consisting of software, are shown at their original historic cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the assets and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life of each asset, typically between 2 to 5 years.
The need for any impairment write-down is assessed by comparing the carrying value of the asset against the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at their original historic cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: IT and other equipment, furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years Motor cars and other vehicles 3 to 5 years The need for any impairment is assessed by comparing the carrying value of the asset against the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provision for impairment.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency equity investments and on foreign currency borrowings including loans from other Group companies, to the extent the borrowings hedge the equity investments, are dealt with in the income statement.
Taxation Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable.
Tax charges and credits are accounted for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax is measured at tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and law enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year-end.
Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the income statement.
For the principal rates of exchange used, see the Group accounting policies on page 86.
Share based payments The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees of its subsidiary companies.
Share based payment awards made by the Company to employees of its subsidiary companies are recognised in the Companys financial statements as an increase in its investments in subsidiary undertakings rather than as an expense in the income statement to the extent that the amount is not recharged to each subsidiary company.
