Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary CET1 or Common Equity Tier 1 capital AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital BCBS or Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Additional Tier 1 capital consists of Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists of the A forum on banking supervisory matters instruments other than Common Equity common shares issued by the Group and which develops global supervisory standards Tier 1 that meet the Capital Requirements related share premium, retained earnings, for the banking industry.
Its members are Regulation CRR criteria for inclusion in accumulated other comprehensive income ofcials from 45 central banks or prudential Tier 1 capital.
and other disclosed reserves, eligible supervisors from 28 countries and territories.
non-controlling interests and regulatory Additional value adjustment adjustments required in the calculation of Basic underlying earnings per share Common Equity Tier 1.
EPS CET1 ratio Represents the underlying earnings divided Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB approach by the basic weighted average number A measure of the Groups CET1 capital as of shares.
The AIRB approach under the Basel a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
framework is used to calculate credit risk Basis point bps Constant currency capital based on the Groups own estimates of prudential parameters.
One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent : Constant currency change is derived by 100 basis points is 1 per cent.
applying a simple translation of the previous Advances-to-deposits customer period functional currency number in each advances-to-deposits ADR ratio CRD IV or Capital Requirements entity using the current average and period Directive IV The ratio of total loans and advances to end US dollar exchange rates to the income A capital adequacy legislative package customers relative to total customer statement and balance sheet respectively.
adopted by EU member states.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio comprises the recast Capital Requirements Contractual maturity demonstrates that customer accounts Directive and the Capital Requirements exceed customer loans resulting from Contractual maturity refers to the final Regulation CRR.
The package implements emphasis placed on generating a high payment date of a loan or other financial the Basel III framework together with level of stable funding from customers.
instrument, at which point all the remaining transitional arrangements for some of its outstanding principal and interest is due to Alternative performance measures requirements.
CRD IV came into force on be paid.
A financial measure of historical or future CIR or Cost to income ratio financial performance, financial position, or Capital-lite income cash ows, other than a financial measure Represents the proportion of total operating Comprises of income from products with low dened or specified in the applicable financial expenses to total operating income.
RWA consumption or products which are reporting framework.
Underlying CIR represents the proportion of non-funding in nature.
total underlying expenses to total underlying ASEAN operating income.
Capital resources Association of South East Asian Nations Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after Countercyclical capital buffer ASEAN, which includes the Groups regulatory adjustments.
operations in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB is Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and part of a set of macroprudential instruments, CGU or Cash-generating unit Vietnam.
designed to help counter procyclicality in the The smallest identiable group of assets financial system.
CCyB as dened in the AUM or Assets under management that generates cash inows that are largely Basel III standard provides for an additional independent of the cash inows from other capital requirement of up to 2.5 per cent of Total market value of assets such as assets or groups of assets.
risk-weighted assets in a given jurisdiction.
deposits, securities and funds held by The Bank of Englands Financial Policy the Group on behalf of the clients.
Cash shortfall Committee has the power to set the CCyB Basel II rate for the United Kingdom.
Each bank must The difference between the cash ows that calculate its institution-specic CCyB rate, The capital adequacy framework issued by are due in accordance with the contractual dened as the weighted average of the CCyB the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision terms of the instrument and the cash ows rates in effect across the jurisdictions in BCBS in June 2006 in the form of the that the Group expects to receive over the which it has credit exposures.
The  Convergence of Capital contractual life of the instrument.
specic CCyB rate is then applied to a banks Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III An amount an individual is required to pay Counterparty credit risk The global regulatory standards on bank back to the Group, which has to be returned The risk that a counterparty defaults before capital adequacy and liquidity, originally to the Group under certain circumstances.
satisfying its obligations under a derivative, issued in December 2010 and updated in CRE or Commercial real estate a securities nancing transaction SFT or June 2011.
In December 2017, the BCBS a similar contract.
published a document setting out the Includes ofce buildings, industrial property, nalisation of the Basel III framework.
medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, The latest requirements issued in December shopping centres, farm land, multi-family 2017 will be implemented from 2022. housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial properties.
Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package of commercial real estate assets.
387 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Deposits by banks Cover ratio DVA or Debit valuation adjustment The ratio of impairment provisions for each An adjustment to the fair value of derivative Deposits by banks comprise amounts stage to the gross loan exposure for each contracts that reects the possibility that the owed to other domestic or foreign credit stage.
For stage 3, the cover ratio is also Group may default and not pay the full market institutions by the Group including securities presented as the ratio of impairment value of contracts.
provisions plus the realisable value of Debt securities Diluted underlying earnings per share collateral to the gross loan exposure.
EPS Debt securities are assets on the Groups Cover ratio after collateral Represents the underlying earnings divided balance sheet and represent certicates of by the diluted weighted average number Represents the extent to which nonindebtedness of credit institutions, public of shares.
performing loans are covered by both bodies or other undertakings excluding impairment provisions, and collateral held those issued by central banks.
Dividend per share against the exposure.
Debt securities in issue Represents the entitlement of each CCF or Credit conversion factor shareholder in the share of the profits of the Debt securities in issue are transferrable Company.
Calculated in the lowest unit of An estimate of the amount the Group expects certicates of indebtedness of the Group currency in which the shares are quoted.
a customer to have drawn further on a facility to the bearer of the certicate.
These are limit at the point of default.
This is either liabilities of the Group and include certicates Early alert, purely and non-purely prescribed by CRR or modelled by the bank.
precautionary CDS or Credit default swaps DTA or Deferred tax asset A borrowers account which exhibits risks or potential weaknesses of a material nature A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby Income taxes recoverable in future periods in requiring closer monitoring, supervision, or the credit risk of an asset the reference asset respect of deductible temporary differences attention by management.
Weaknesses is transferred from the buyer to the seller of between the accounting and tax base of in such a borrowers account, if left protection.
A credit default swap is a contract an asset or liability that will result in tax uncorrected, could result in deterioration of where the protection seller receives premium deductible amounts in future periods, the repayment prospects and the likelihood of or interest-related payments in return for carry-forward of tax losses or the carrybeing downgraded to credit grade 12 or contracting to make payments to the forward of unused tax credits.
When an account is on early alert, protection buyer upon a dened credit event.
it is classied as either purely precautionary DTL or Deferred tax liability Credit events normally include bankruptcy, or non-purely precautionary.
A purely payment default on a reference asset or Income taxes payable in future periods in precautionary account is one that exhibits assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
respect of taxable temporary differences early alert characteristics but these do not between the accounting and tax base of present any imminent credit concern.
If the Credit institutions an asset or liability that will result in taxable symptoms present an imminent credit An institution whose business is to receive amounts in future periods.
concern, an account will be considered for deposits or other repayable funds from classication as non-purely precautionary.
Default the public and to grant credits for its own account.
Financial assets in default represent those Effective tax rate that are at least 90 days past due in respect The tax on profit losses on ordinary Credit risk mitigation of principal or interest and or where the activities as a percentage of profit loss assets are otherwise considered to be Credit risk mitigation is a process to mitigate on ordinary activities before taxation.
unlikely to pay, including those that are potential credit losses from any given credit-impaired.
account, customer or portfolio by using a Encumbered assets range of tools such as collateral, netting On-balance sheet assets pledged or used Dened benefit obligation agreements, credit insurance, credit as collateral in respect of certain of the derivatives and guarantees.
The present value of expected future Groups liabilities.
payments required to settle the obligations CVA or Credit valuation adjustments of a dened benefit scheme resulting from EU or European Union An adjustment to the fair value of derivative employee service.
The European Union EU is a political and contracts that reects the possibility that economic union of 28 member states that the counterparty may default such that the Dened benefit scheme are located primarily in Europe.
Group would not receive the full market value Pension or other post-retirement benefit of the contracts.
scheme other than a dened contribution Eurozone scheme.
Customer accounts Represents the 19 EU countries that have adopted the euro as their common currency.
Money deposited by all individuals and Dened contribution scheme companies which are not credit institutions A pension or other post-retirement benefit ECL or Expected credit loss including securities sold under repurchase scheme where the employers obligation is agreement see repo reverse repo.
Such Represents the present value of expected limited to its contributions to the fund.
funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups cash shortfalls over the residual term of a balance sheet under customer accounts.
financial asset, undrawn commitment or Delinquency financial guarantee.
A debt or other financial obligation is Days past due considered to be in a state of delinquency One or more days that interest and or when payments are overdue.
Loans and principal payments are overdue based advances are considered to be delinquent on the contractual terms.
when consecutive payments are missed.
Standard Chartered 388 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION IRB approach or internal ratings-based Expected loss Free deliveries approach The Group measure of anticipated loss A transaction where a bank takes receipt Risk-weighting methodology in accordance for exposures captured under an internal of a debt or equity security, a commodity with the Basel Capital Accord where capital ratings-based credit risk approach for capital or foreign exchange without making requirements are based on a rms own adequacy calculations.
It is measured as the immediate payment, or where a bank estimates of prudential parameters.
Group-modelled view of anticipated loss delivers a debt or equity security, a based on probability of default, loss given commodity or foreign exchange without IMA or internal model approach default and exposure at default, with a receiving immediate payment.
The approach used to calculate market risk Free funds capital and RWA with an internal market risk Exposures model approved by the PRA under the terms Free funds include equity capital, retained of CRD IV CRR.
Credit exposures represent the amount lent reserves, current year unremitted profits and to a customer, together with any undrawn capital injections net of proposed dividends.
IAS or International Accounting commitments.
It does not include debt capital instruments, Standard unrealised profits or losses or any nonEAD or Exposure at default cash items.
A standard that forms part of the International Financial Reporting Standards framework.
The estimation of the extent to which the Funded unfunded exposures Group may be exposed to a customer or IASB or International Accounting counterparty in the event of, and at the time Exposures where the notional amount of Standards Board of, that counterpartys default.
At default, the transaction is funded or unfunded.
An independent standard-setting body the customer may not have drawn the loan Represents exposures where a commitment responsible for the development and fully or may already have repaid some of the to provide future funding is made but funds publication of IFRS, and approving principal, so that exposure is typically less have been released not released.
interpretations of IFRS standards that are than the approved loan limit.
FVA or Funding valuation adjustments recommended by the IFRS Interpretations ECAI or External Credit Assessment Committee IFRIC.
FVA reects an adjustment to fair value in Institution respect of derivative contracts that reects IFRS or International Financial External credit ratings are used to assign the funding costs that the market participant Reporting Standards risk-weights under the standardised would incorporate when determining an A set of international accounting standards approach for sovereigns, corporates and exit price.
developed and issued by the International institutions.
The external ratings are from Accounting Standards Board, consisting of credit rating agencies that are registered or G-SIBs or Global Systemically principles-based guidance contained within certied in accordance with the credit rating Important Banks IFRSs and IASs.
All companies that have agencies regulation or from a central bank Global banking financial institutions issued publicly traded securities in the EU issuing credit ratings which is exempt from whose size, complexity and systemic are required to prepare annual and interim the application of this regulation.
interconnectedness mean that their distress reports under IFRS and IAS standards that or failure would cause significant disruption have been endorsed by the EU.
FCA or Financial Conduct Authority to the wider financial system and economic The Financial Conduct Authority regulates activity.
The list of G-SIBs is assessed under IFRIC the conduct of financial rms and, for certain a framework established by the FSB and the The IFRS Interpretations Committee rms, prudential standards in the UK.
In the EU, the G-SIB framework is supports the IASB in providing authoritative strategic objective to ensure that the relevant implemented via CRD IV and G-SIBs are guidance on the accounting treatment of markets function well.
referred to as Global Systemically Important issues not specically dealt with by existing Institutions G-SIIs.
Forbearance G-SIB buffer Forbearance takes place when a concession Investment grade is made to the contractual terms of a loan in A CET1 capital buffer which results from A debt security, treasury bill or similar response to an obligors financial difficulties.
The G-SIB buffer instrument with a credit rating measured The Group classies such modied loans as is between 1 per cent and 3.5 per cent, by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
either Forborne not impaired loans or depending on the allocation to one of five Loans subject to forbearance impaired.
buckets based on the annual scoring.
Leverage ratio Once a loan is categorised as either of these, The G-SIB buffer has been phased in by it will remain in one of these two categories 1 January 2019.
In the EU, the G-SIB buffer A ratio that compares Tier 1 capital to total until the loan matures or satisfies the curing is implemented via CRD IV as Global exposures, including certain exposures held conditions described in Note 8 to the financial Systemically Important Institutions G-SII off-balance sheet as adjusted by stipulated statements.
Intended to be a simple, non-risk-based backstop measure.
Interest rate risk Forborne not impaired loans Liquid asset ratio Loans where the contractual terms have The risk of an adverse impact on the been modied due to financial difficulties of Groups income statement due to changes Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
the borrower, but the loan is not considered in interest rates.
Liquid assets comprise cash less restricted to be impaired.
balances, net interbank, treasury bills and debt securities less illiquid securities.
389 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary NSFR or Net stable funding ratio Liquidation portfolio LGD or Loss given default A portfolio of assets which is beyond our The percentage of an exposure that a lender The ratio of available stable funding to current risk appetite metrics and is held expects to lose in the event of obligor default.
required stable funding over a one-year time for liquidation.
It is Malus a longer-term liquidity measure designed to LCR or Liquidity coverage ratio restrain the amount of wholesale borrowing An arrangement that permits the Group to and encourage stable funding over a The ratio of the stock of high-quality liquid prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of one-year time horizon.
assets to expected net cash outows over an unvested variable remuneration award, the following 30 days.
High-quality liquid due to a specic crystallised risk, behaviour, Net tangible asset value per share assets should be unencumbered, liquid in conduct or adverse performance outcome.
markets during a time of stress and, ideally, Ratio of net tangible assets total tangible Master netting agreement be central bank eligible.
assets less total liabilities to the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of a An agreement between two counterparties Loan exposure reporting period.
that have multiple derivative contracts Loans and advances to customers with each other that provides for the net NPLs or non-performing loans reported on the balance sheet held at settlement of all contracts through a single amortised cost or FVOCI, non-cancellable payment, in a single currency, in the event An NPL is any loan that is more than 90 days credit commitments and cancellable of default on, or termination of, any one past due or is otherwise individually impaired.
credit commitments for credit cards and contract.
This excludes Retail loans renegotiated at or overdraft facilities.
after 90 days past due, but on which there Mezzanine capital has been no default in interest or principal Loans and advances payments for more than 180 days since Financing that combines debt and equity renegotiation, and against which no loss of This represents lending made under bilateral characteristics.
For example, a loan that principal is expected.
agreements with customers entered into in also confers some profit participation to the normal course of business and is based the lender.
Non-linearity on the legal form of the instrument.
MREL or minimum requirement for Non-linearity of expected credit loss occurs Loan loss rate own funds and eligible liabilities when the average of expected credit loss for a portfolio is higher than the base case A requirement under the Bank Recovery Loan loss rate is total credit impairment for median due to the fact that bad economic and Resolution Directive for EU resolution loans and advances to customers over environment could have a larger impact authorities to set a minimum requirement for average loans and advances to customers on ECL calculation than good economic own funds and eligible liabilities for banks, environment.
Loans to banks implementing the FSBs Total Loss Absorbing Capacity TLAC standard.
MREL is intended Amounts loaned to credit institutions Normalised items to ensure that there is sufficient equity and including securities bought under specic types of liabilities to facilitate an See Underlying earnings.
orderly resolution that minimises any impact on financial stability and ensures the Operating expenses LTV or loan-to-value ratio continuity of critical functions and avoids Staff and premises costs, general and A calculation which expresses the amount exposing taxpayers to loss.
administrative expenses, depreciation of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of and amortisation.
Underlying operating the total appraised value of real property.
Net asset value NAV per share expenses exclude expenses as described The loan-to-value ratio is used in determining Ratio of net assets total assets less total in Underlying earnings.
A reconciliation the appropriate level of risk for the loan and liabilities to the number of ordinary shares between underlying and statutory therefore the correct price of the loan to outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
earnings is contained in Note 2 to the the borrower.
Net exposure Loans past due Operating income or operating profit The aggregate of loans and advances to Loans on which payments have been due for customers loans and advances to banks Net interest, net fee and net trading income, up to a maximum of 90 days including those after impairment provisions, restricted as well as other operating income.
Underlying on which partial payments are being made.
balances with central banks, derivatives net operating income represents the income of master netting agreements, investment line items above, on an underlying basis.
Loans subject to forbearance impaired debt and equity securities, and letters of See Underlying earnings.
Loans where the terms have been credit and guarantees.
renegotiated on terms not consistent with OTC or Over-the-counter derivatives current market levels due to financial NII or Net interest income A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is difficulties of the borrower.
Loans in this The difference between interest received on not exchange traded and that is valued using category are necessarily impaired.
See assets and interest paid on liabilities.
NIM or Net interest margin OCA or Own credit adjustment Loss rate Net interest income divided by average An adjustment to the Groups issued debt Uses an adjusted gross charge-off rate, interest earning assets.
designated at fair value through profit or loss developed using monthly write-off and that reects the possibility that the Group may recoveries over the preceding 12 months default and not pay the full market value of and total outstanding balances.
Standard Chartered 390 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV Physical risks PRA or Prudential Regulation Authority The risk of increased extreme weather events The Prudential Regulation Authority is the A framework for identifying and quantifying including ood, drought and sea level rise.
statutory body responsible for the prudential marginal types of market risk that are not supervision of banks, building societies, captured in the Value at Risk VaR measure Pillar 1 credit unions, insurers and a small number for any reason, such as being a far-tail risk of significant investment rms in the UK.
or the necessary historical market data not The first pillar of the three pillars of the The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
Basel framework which provides the approach to calculation of the minimum Repo reverse repo Roll rate capital requirements for credit, market and operational risk.
Minimum capital A repurchase agreement or repo is a Uses a matrix that gives average loan requirements are 8 per cent of the short-term funding agreement, which allows migration rate from delinquency states from Groups risk-weighted assets.
a borrower to sell a financial asset, such period to period.
A matrix multiplication is as asset backed securities or government then performed to generate the final PDs Pillar 2 bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of by delinquency bucket over different the agreement the borrower agrees to time horizons.
The second pillar of the three pillars of the repurchase the security at some later date, Basel framework which requires banks to Secured fully and partially usually less than 30 days, repaying the undertake a comprehensive assessment of proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the their risks and to determine the appropriate A secured loan is a loan in which the other end of the transaction buying the amounts of capital to be held against these borrower pledges an asset as collateral for security and agreeing to sell in the future, risks where other suitable mitigants are a loan which, in the event that the borrower it is a reverse repurchase agreement or not available.
defaults, the Group is able to take possession reverse repo.
All secured loans are considered fully Pillar 3 secured if the fair value of the collateral is Residential mortgage equal to or greater than the loan at the time The third pillar of the three pillars of the A loan to purchase a residential property of origination.
All other secured loans are Basel framework which aims to provide a which is then used as collateral to guarantee considered to be partly secured.
consistent and comprehensive disclosure repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives framework that enhances comparability Securitisation the lender a lien against the property, and the between banks and further promotes lender can foreclose on the property if the Securitisation is a process by which credit improvements in risk practices.
borrower does not repay the loan per the exposures are aggregated into a pool, Private equity investments agreed terms.
which is used to back new securities.
Under traditional securitisation transactions, Equity securities in operating companies RoE or Return on equity assets are sold to a structured entity SE generally not quoted on a public exchange.
which then issues new securities to investors Represents the ratio of the current years Investment in private equity often involves the at different levels of seniority credit tranching.
profit available for distribution to ordinary investment of capital in private companies.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to shareholders to the weighted average Capital for private equity investment is be separated from the credit rating of the ordinary shareholders equity for the raised by retail or institutional investors and originating institution and transfers risk to reporting period.
Underlying return on equity used to fund investment strategies such external investors in a way that meets their represents the ratio above using underlying as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, risk appetite.
growth capital, distressed investments transactions, the transfer of risk is achieved and mezzanine capital.
RoRWA or Return on risk-weighted by the use of credit derivatives or guarantees, assets and the exposures being securitised remain PD or Probability of default exposures of the originating institution.
profit before tax for year as a percentage of PD is an internal estimate for each borrower RWA.
profit may be statutory or underlying grade of the likelihood that an obligor Senior debt and is specified where used.
See RWA will default on an obligation over a given and Underlying earnings.
Debt that takes priority over other unsecured time horizon.
or otherwise more junior debt owed by the RoTE or Return on tangible equity issuer.
Senior debt has greater seniority in the Probability weighted issuers capital structure after subordinated Represents the ratio of the current years Obtained by considering the values the debt.
In the event the issuer goes bankrupt, profit available for distribution to ordinary metric can assume, weighted by the senior debt theoretically must be repaid shareholders, to the weighted average probability of each value occurring.
before other creditors receive any payment.
ordinary shareholders equity less the average goodwill and intangibles for the profit loss attributable to ordinary SICR or significant increase in shareholders reporting period.
Underlying return on credit risk tangible equity represents the ratio profit loss for the year after non-controlling above using underlying earnings.
Assessed by comparing the risk of default of interests and dividends declared in respect See Underlying earnings.
an exposure at the reporting date to the risk of preference shares classied as equity.
of default at origination after considering the RWA or Risk-weighted assets passage of time.
PVA or Prudent valuation adjustment A measure of a banks assets adjusted An adjustment to CET1 capital to reect the for their associated risks, expressed difference between fair value and prudent as a percentage of an exposure value value positions, where the application of in accordance with the applicable prudence results in a lower absolute standardised or IRB approach provisions.
carrying value than recognised in the financial statements.
391 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Unlikely to pay Sovereign exposures Tier 2 capital Exposures to central governments and Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying Indications of unlikeliness to pay shall include central government departments, central subordinated liabilities and related share placing the credit obligation on non-accrued banks and entities owned or guaranteed premium accounts.
status: the recognition of a specic credit by the aforementioned.
adjustment resulting from a significant TLAC or Total loss absorbing capacity perceived decline in credit quality subsequent Stage 1 to the Group taking on the exposure: selling An international standard for TLAC issued the credit obligation at a material credit Assets have not experienced a significant by the FSB, which requires G-SIBs to have related economic loss: the Group consenting increase in credit risk since origination and sufficient loss-absorbing and recapitalisation to a distressed restructuring of the credit impairment recognised on the basis of capacity available in resolution, to minimise obligation where this is likely to result in a 12 months expected credit losses.
impacts on financial stability, maintain the diminished financial obligation caused by the continuity of critical functions and avoid material forgiveness, or postponement, of Stage 2 exposing public funds to loss.
principal, interest or, where relevant fees: ling Assets have experienced a significant TSR or Total shareholder return for the obligors bankruptcy or a similar order increase in credit risk since origination in respect of an obligors credit obligation and impairment is recognised on the The total return of the Groups equity share to the Group: the obligor has sought or basis of lifetime expected credit losses.
price growth and dividends to investors.
has been placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would avoid or delay Stage 3 Transition risks repayment of a credit obligation to the Group.
Assets that are in default and considered The risk of changes to market dynamics or credit-impaired non-performing loans.
sectoral economics due to governments VaR or Value at Risk response to climate change.
A quantitative measure of market risk Standardised approach estimating the potential loss that will not UK bank levy In relation to credit risk, a method for be exceeded in a set time period at a set calculating credit risk capital requirements A levy that applies to certain UK banks and statistical confidence level.
using External Credit Assessment Institutions the UK operations of foreign banks.
The levy ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
is payable each year based on a percentage ViU or Value-in-Use In relation to operational risk, a method of the chargeable equities and liabilities on The present value of the future expected of calculating the operational capital the Groups consolidated balance sheet date.
cash ows expected to be derived from requirement by the application of a Key exclusions from chargeable equities and an asset or CGU.
supervisory dened percentage charge liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or to the gross income of eight specified guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on Write-downs business lines.
certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject After an advance has been identied as to netting.
impaired and is subject to an impairment Structured note provision, the stage may be reached whereby Unbiased An investment tool which pays a return linked it is concluded that there is no realistic Not overly optimistic or pessimistic, to the value or level of a specified asset or prospect of further recovery.
Write-downs will represents information that is not slanted, index and sometimes offers capital protection occur when, and to the extent that, the whole weighted, emphasised, fide-emphasised if the value declines.
Structured notes can or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
or otherwise manipulated to increase the be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, probability that the financial information will be commodities and foreign currency.
XVA received favourably or unfavourably by users.
The term used to incorporate credit, debit Subordinated liabilities and funding valuation adjustments to the Underlying earnings Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or fair value of derivative financial instruments.
The Groups statutory performance adjusted liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to See CVA, DVA and FVA.
for restructuring and other items representing the claims of depositors and other creditors profits or losses of a capital nature: amounts of the issuer.
consequent to investment transactions driven Tier 1 capital by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are significant The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 capital or material in the context of the Groups and Additional Tier 1 capital.
normal business earnings for the period, and items which management and investors Tier 1 capital ratio would ordinarily identify separately when Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskassessing performance period-by-period.
A reconciliation between underlying and statutory performance is contained in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Standard Chartered 392 Annual Report 2018 Standard Chartered is a leading international banking group.
Our heritage and values are expressed in our brand promise, Here for good.
Our operations reect Our Purpose, which is to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We are present in 60 markets and serve clients in a further 85.
Our businesses serve four client segments in four regions, supported by our global functions.
Europe & Africa & ASEAN & Greater China Americas Middle East South Asia & North Asia Read more Read more Read more Read more on page 29 on page 28 on page 27 on page 26 Unless another currency is specified, the word dollar or About this report Further information is available symbol $ in this document means US dollar and the word where you see these icons: Sustainability reporting is embedded cent or symbol c means one-hundredth of one US dollar.
Those disclosures marked unaudited are not within the scope across our Annual Report and Accounts Additional information can be of KPMG LLPs audit.
and is also available in consolidated found within the report Unless the context requires, within this document, China refers form in our Sustainability Summary at to the Peoples Republic of China and, for the purposes of this sc.
com  More information is available online document only, excludes Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Hong Kong, Macau Special Administrative Region The Group uses a number of alternative Macau and Taiwan.
Korea or South Korea refers to the performance measures in the discussion of Republic of Korea.
Greater China & North Asia GCNA includes @StanChart China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Macau and Taiwan: ASEAN its performance.
These measures exclude & South Asia ASA includes Australia, Bangladesh, Brunei, Designed and produced by Friend This document is printed on Revive 50 silk, Standard Chartered PLC.
com company  certain items which management believe are Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, www.
com a paper containing 50% recycled bre 25% All rights reserved.
Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam: and not representative of the underlying performance post-consumer and 25% pre-consumer and facebook.
com standardchartered The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, Printed by Park Communications on Africa & Middle East AME includes Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, 50% virgin bre sourced from well-managed, of the business and which distort period-onits logo device and associated product brand FSC certied paper.
Lebanon, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United responsible, FSC certied forests.
The pulp names are owned by Standard Chartered period comparison.
They provide the reader Arab Emirates UAE.
used in this product is bleached using an Park is an EMAS certied company and PLC and centrally licensed to its operating with insight into how management measures Within the tables in this report, blank spaces indicate that the elemental chlorine free ECF process.
its Environmental Management System Photo competition entities.
number is not disclosed, dashes indicate that the number is is certied to ISO 14001. the performance of the business.
This document is fully recyclable.
Registered Ofce: 1 Basinghall Avenue, zero and nm stands for not meaningful.
In 2018 we ran our Annual Report staff photo 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil London EC2V 5DD.
For more information please visit sc.
com Standard Chartered PLC is headquartered in London.
competition again, this time showcasing our based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled Telephone 44 0 20 7885 8888.
The Groups head ofce provides guidance on governance for further use and, on average, 99% of any three valued behaviours.
The top three entrants and regulatory standards.
Standard Chartered PLC stock codes Principal place of business in Hong Kong: waste associated with this production will can be found on the front and back cover, and are: HKSE 02888: LSE STAN.
32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, be recycled.
there is further information on pages 134, 224 Registered in England No.
Standard Chartered Annual Report 2018 Standard Chartered PLC Annual Report 2018 CONTACT INFORMATION Global headquarters Standard Chartered Group 1 Basinghall Avenue London, EC2V 5DD United Kingdom telephone: 44 0 20 7885 8888 facsimile: 44 0 20 7885 9999 Digital Annual Report and Accounts sc.
com annualreport Shareholder enquiries ShareCare information website: sc.
com shareholders helpline: 0370 702 0138 ShareGift information website: ShareGift.
org helpline: 020 7930 3737 Registrar information UK Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 0370 702 0138 Hong Kong Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong website: computershare.
com hk investors Indian Depository Receipts Karvy Fintech Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32 Financial District Nanakramguda Hyderabad 500032, India Chinese translation Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre ANNUAL REPORT 2018 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong Register for electronic communications Here for good website: investorcentre.
LN HKSE Stock code: 02888 Driving commerce and prosperity BSE NSE Stock code: STAN.
IN through our unique diversity
