Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report The November 2017 meeting of the Committee was held at the Neville 7.1 Introduction from Ray OToole, Hill Train Maintenance Depot.
This gave members of the Committee the Chairman of the Health, Safety and opportunity to see recent safety and working environment Environmental Committee improvements implemented at the depot and gave a greater The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee assists the Board to understanding of how the depot was meeting the challenges of fulfil its responsibilities by recommending Group policy in these areas continuing to operate the ageing High Speed Train fleet.
and monitoring compliance with the Group policy.
As the Chairman of The Committee allocates time in its agendas to receive detailed briefings the Committee, I am determined to ensure that the Committee on areas of specific interest or concern to it.
During the year, challenges the Group management team to further strengthen its safety presentations were received on a range of topics, including: management processes over time.
a detailed briefing on the investigation into the fire at Nottingham I intend to continue involving a range of contributors from the Groups Station businesses in the business of the Committee and ensure that the a demonstration of new technological safety aids being tested in the Committee actively engages with those businesses to help the Group to Groups North America business evolve its health, safety and environmental strategy and culture.
Members of the Committee are encouraged to be visible to the Groups evaluation and reinforcement of the safety culture in the UK Bus managers and staff by engaging with operating divisions through regular Division site visits.
Managers are invited to attend meetings of the Committee The Committee closely followed the Rail Accident Investigation Branch and are encouraged to bring more junior members of their management investigation into the overturning of a tram operated by another teams to engage with the Committee.
By bringing contributors together operator in Croydon in 2016 and was briefed on the actions proposed for at its meetings, the Committee aims to share knowledge between the the Groups own tram operations in the light of the findings of that Groups businesses and to challenge its business managers and safety investigation.
advisers to promote sustained improvement over time.
The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is across the Group as well as information on significant incidents involving fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel the Group.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in and health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
respect of each major operating division.
Training, where relevant, is provided to the Committee on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal objectives.
Members of the Committee review entries for the annual Stagecoach Ray OToole Champions Awards, which reward employees for excellence in the areas Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee of safety, environment, community, health, customer service and innovation.
28 June 2018 7.2 Composition of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is summarised in section 4.9.
The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee are available on the Groups website at: https: www.
com  7.3 Operation of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks, mitigations and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants, where required.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Senior managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters and to share best practice across the Group.
As incidents occur, the Committee, aided by the safety management teams, is able to analyse those incidents and learn lessons to further improve the Groups safety processes.
The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe health, safety and environmental management in practice.
During the year, members of the Committee attended meetings of health and safety committees within the Groups operating divisions in order to understand more fully the safety processes and culture within those divisions.
