Corporate governance report 4.1 Introduction from Will Whitehorn, 4.2 Corporate governance and compliance Deputy Chairman with the Code The Stagecoach Group is committed to operating with the high The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standards of corporate governance that are expected of a group with activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
In this introduction to the governance practices within the Group.
This section 4 of the Annual Report sets out Stagecoach Groups corporate governance Groups corporate governance report, I look back at the year 2017 18, arrangements.
Taken together with the Directors report, it includes the at the progress that has been made with the governance of the Group disclosures recommended by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and look forward to the governance challenges for the future.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code to which the Group is As the Deputy Chairman, it is my responsibility to promote the highest subject.
This section 4 also describes how the principles of good standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and corporate governance that are set out in the Code have been applied.
This report sets out the governance In line with the recommendations of the Code and best practice, structure in place for the Group, which I believe is both robust and separate reports are provided from each of the Audit, Nomination, appropriate for the Groups operations.
Health, Safety and Environmental and Remuneration Committees.
Following a number of changes made to the Board in 2016, the The Code issued in April 2016 applied to the Companys financial year composition of the Board remained the same throughout the year from 30 April 2017 to 28 April 2018.
The Directors believe that 2017 18 and our newer Board members have contributed significantly throughout the year ended 28 April 2018 the Group complied with all to addressing the Groups current challenges and to determining the of the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at: future direction of the Group.
uk getattachment  Martin Griffiths and Ross Paterson continue in their roles as Chief ad76a322873c  Executive and Finance Director respectively.
The Groups Chairman, Sir The Group also complies with the corporate governance requirements Brian Souter, is responsible for the conduct of the Board as a whole.
"of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure Our Board structure comprises experienced executive directors managing Guidance and Transparency Rules ""DTRs""."
the business, non-executive directors with the skills and experience both DTR 7.2.
6 requires the corporate governance statement to contain to bring new ideas to the Board and to challenge the executive directors, certain information required by Schedule 7 to the Large and Mediumand our co-founder and former Chief Executive continuing as nonsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 executive Chairman.
This structure allows the Board to develop the SI 2008 410.
This information relates to significant interests in the strategic direction of the Group to meet future challenges while ensuring securities of the Company, securities carrying special rights with regard the sound management of the Groups current business.
I am satisfied to the control of the Company, restrictions on voting rights, rules that the governance structure allows the views of all of the Directors to regarding the appointment and replacement of directors, rules be heard and given due weight and that our corporate governance regarding changes to the Companys Articles of Association and the procedures are appropriate for the Group.
Directors powers in relation to the issuing or buying back by the The Board focuses on the Groups strategy and seeks to understand the Company of its shares.
The relevant information can be found in risks to the Group and the markets that it operates in.
We aim to sections 3.4, 3.9 and 3.10 of this Annual Report.
achieve appropriate returns for our shareholders, balanced against an appropriate level of risk.
We look ahead to where we believe 4.3 Composition of the Board opportunities are going to arise and to anticipate and address the The composition of the Board is as follows: challenges that the business faces.
I believe that good governance is Date of Independent central to achieving these aims for the business as a whole and to appointment Nonensure that our management team is properly challenged to meet the if later than Executive Other Groups objectives.
1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director In the past year, the Board has continued to discuss franchise Sir Brian Souter opportunities available in the rail sector, submitting a bid for the new Chairman 3 South Eastern franchise and securing a franchise direct award for West Gregor Alexander Coast Main Line for at least a further year from 1 April 2018.
The Board Non-Executive Director 3 has continued to review the balance of the Group between its rail and James Bilefield bus businesses and the balance of risk and reward in rail franchise Non-Executive Director 3 letting processes.
The Board recognises and has discussed in some Ray OToole detail the risks to the business in the changing political landscape.
Non-Executive Director 3 The Board has continued to discuss how new technology can enhance Julie Southern resigning the passenger experience and attract more passengers to our services.
effective 31 August 2018 The Board has drawn on the experience of the non-executive members Non-Executive Director 3 of the Board to develop the Groups digital and technology strategies, Karen Thomson looking at how new technologies can support our current business Non-Executive Director 3 model and open up new ways to provide services to the public, and to Will Whitehorn ensure that the Group is able to play a part in emerging transport Senior Independent Director solutions.
The Group has continued to enhance the reliability and & Deputy Chairman 3 functionality of the Stagecoach UK Bus App, including the addition of Sir Ewan Brown Apple Pay and Android Pay and is rolling out a contactless payment Non-Executive Director 3 facility across the UK Bus regional operations Division.
I am confident Ann Gloag that the corporate governance structure of the Board provides an Non-Executive Director 3 appropriate forum to develop and adapt the Groups strategy to Martin Griffiths address future challenges and opportunities.
Chief Executive 3 Ross Paterson Finance Director 3 Independence shown based on the guidelines suggested by the Code.
The Board comprises eleven directors, six of who meet the criteria Will Whitehorn suggested by the Code for determining director independence.
Following Deputy Chairman Julie Southerns planned resignation on 31 August 2018, five of the 28 June 2018 remaining ten directors will meet those criteria.
page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 37 The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
Regular 4.4 Division of responsibilities communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors Sir Brian Souter was the Chief Executive of the Group until 1 May 2013. between meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic When Sir Brian became the Chairman of the Group and Martin Griffiths and operational issues.
In June 2017, the Board met away from operational became Chief Executive, the Board created the new role of Deputy and Head Office locations and discussed the overall strategy of the Group.
Chairman to maintain the strength of its governance arrangements.
The During the year, the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee visited split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans and Chief Executives the UK Rail Divisions operations at the Neville Hill Train Maintenance responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been approved by the Depot and was briefed in particular on the maintenance processes for the Board.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to the Board High Speed Train fleet and improvements to the working environment at and has responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance.
Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with of matters is in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment of interest.
No executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and for ensuring risk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the commercial objectives.
The Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring Board considered during the year ended 28 April 2018 included that the Board determines the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives with the overall success of the Group in mind and to provide Financial challenges affecting the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise and guidance in this regard to the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible discussions with the Department for Transport regarding the contractual for proposing and developing that strategy with support and guidance arrangements for the franchise from the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of Information security policies, maturity level and response to threats the Groups business and reports to the Chairman and to the Board such as Wannacry directly.
All other members of the executive management team report UK Bus Division passenger trend analysis, commercial strategy and new either directly or indirectly to the Chief Executive.
initiatives Will Whitehorn, as well as being Deputy Chairman, is the Groups Senior Approval of Inter City West Coast franchise direct award Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have Approval of bid for new South Eastern rail franchise concerns which contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Risk profile of future rail franchise opportunities Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Readiness for introduction of the EU General Data Protection Regulation The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under 4.5 Board independence and balance review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to The Directors biographies appear in section 2 of this Annual Report and improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board delegates the operational committees.
management of the Group to the Chief Executive and Finance Director Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Directors have a the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are complementary range of experience that ensures no one director or recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the The Code recommends that independent non-executive directors should Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the year from 30 April 2017 to 28 April 2018, the Board considers that it 4.7 Operational management of the Group complied with this Code requirement.
The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly All of the Directors stand for election or re-election at each annual general face-to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are four principal operating divisions: 4.6 Operation of the Board UK Bus London : headed by a managing director UK Bus regional operations : headed by two managing directors The Board generally meets six times each year.
Additional meetings of the North America: headed by a chief operating officer Board are held, or resolutions are circulated in writing, as appropriate, to consider matters where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next UK Rail: headed by a managing director scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its Each division comprises a number of autonomous business units, each Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact headed by a managing director who is responsible for the day-to-day with each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
performance of the business unit.
Each managing director is supported by The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without his or her own management teams.
the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive One of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least Group, is managed independently of the Group.
It is headed by its own annually.
The Group has two representatives on the Board of All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of Virgin Rail Group.
The other trading joint venture in which the Group has the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
The Group and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups is responsible for the day-to-day management of that business.
expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and 4.8 Performance evaluation removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Boards abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews assessment of the performance of the Chairman is co-ordinated by the the Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Deputy Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Company Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Nonsocial and governance matters.
Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 38 Corporate governance report Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the 4.10 Individual director participation at performance of the Board and other Board members.
The Deputy meetings Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings performance of the Chairman.
A questionnaire-based process is of committees and the Annual General Meeting by directors during the undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards year ended 28 April 2018: committees.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and its committees.
The Code recommends board performance IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Board appointed Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to facilitate its Sir Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a evaluation in the year ended 29 April 2017 and details of the review and recommendations made were included in the 2017 Annual Report.
The Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2018 evaluation was not externally facilitated but the Board intends to Gregor Alexander 6 6 3 3 3 3 continue to use external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less James Bilefield 6 6 n a n a 3 3 frequently than every third year.
The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has Sir Ewan Brown 6 6 n a n a n a n a concluded that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a in an effective and constructive manner.
Ray OToole 6 6 3 3 n a n a Ross Paterson 6 6 n a n a n a n a 4.9 Composition of Committees Julie Southern 6 6 3 3 3 3 The current composition of the various Board Committees is summarised Karen Thomson 5 6 2 3 n a n a below.
Will Whitehorn 6 6 n a n a n a n a Audit Committee Number of members of Committee: 4 Health, Safety PARTICIPATION and Environmental Nomination Annual General All members are independent non-executive directors.
IN MEETINGS Committee Committee Meeting Chairman and designated member with recent and relevant financial Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible experience Sir Brian Souter n a n a 1 1 1 1 Gregor Alexander Other members Martin Griffiths 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Ray OToole Gregor Alexander n a n a n a n a 1 1 Julie Southern James Bilefield n a n a 1 1 1 1 Karen Thomson Sir Ewan Brown n a n a 1 1 1 1 Nomination Committee Ann Gloag 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Number of members of Committee: 5 Ray OToole 4 4 1 1 1 1 Chairman Ross Paterson n a n a n a n a 1 1 Sir Brian Souter Julie Southern n a n a n a n a 1 1 Other members Karen Thomson 3 4 n a n a 1 1 James Bilefield Will Whitehorn n a n a 1 1 1 1 Sir Ewan Brown Ray OToole Will Whitehorn 4.11 Relations with shareholders The Board endeavours to present a fair, balanced and understandable Remuneration Committee assessment of the Groups position and prospects in communications Number of members of Committee: 3 with shareholders.
The Group has periodic meetings and or telephone All members are independent non-executive directors.
calls with representatives of major institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the financial media.
Chairman The programme of investor relations includes presentations of the fullJulie Southern year and interim results and meetings calls with institutional investors.
Other members Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations to ensure key Gregor Alexander strategies, market trends and actions being taken are effectively James Bilefield communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The Annual Report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through Number of members of Committee: 4 briefings from the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Executive Chairman Directors, reports from the Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
Ray OToole All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual Other members General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to Martin Griffiths ensure that all the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting Ann Gloag to answer questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an Karen Thomson opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is With effect from 31 August 2018, when Julie Southern leaves the Board, the Companys policy to propose a separate resolution at the Annual Ray OToole will succeed Julie Southern as Chairman of the General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 39 All resolutions proposed to the 2017 Annual General Meeting were 4.12.2 Risk management process decided by a poll as opposed to a show of hands and details of all votes The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing lodged for and against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution of the the principal risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
2017 Annual General Meeting were published on the Groups website at The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part https: www.
aspx of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in The Group intends to undertake a poll on each resolution put to the some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to 2018 Annual General Meeting.
All votes cast for or against each identify and manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility resolution, whether by proxy or in person at the meeting, will be for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, aggregated and the results will be reported on the Groups website.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide The Company and its registrars have established procedures to ensure absolute assurance but is designed to provide the Directors with that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
reasonable assurance that any significant risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Group has established 4.12 Risk management an ongoing process of risk review and certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a sound risk culture throughout the Group such that risks are identified, evaluated and Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Further details are provided in the sections that identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its follow about the Boards appetite for risk and the Groups risk potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers management process.
whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated by the Group.
4.12.1 Risk appetite For those businesses that have been part of the Group for the whole of the The Board considers that it is in the interests of the Groups stakeholders financial year ended 28 April 2018, the Groups risk management process for the Group to evaluate and accept risk.
Delivering the Groups strategy was embedded throughout the businesses for that year and up to the date and objectives necessitates some risk taking.
of the approval of this report.
It is the Groups objective that the risk of it not remaining viable for the The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk foreseeable future should be low.
Its appetite for risk reflects that overall management and internal control environment and such reviews are objective.
Consistent with that risk appetite: supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are Safety is at the heart of the Groups business as explained in section appropriately managed.
Health and safety risks are carefully assessed and the Group avoids activities where health and safety risks The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal cannot be managed to an acceptable level.
control and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important It is the Groups intention to remain focused on the public transport that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the sector and goods and services related to that.
The Group does not managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal currently have plans to expand into businesses unrelated to public control framework within that unit.
Before entering a new country, the Group carefully evaluates the risks of doing so.
Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division The Group recognises the different risk profiles of each of its businesses maintaining a separate risk profile.
and in particular, recognises that profits and cash flows from UK rail businesses are generally less predictable than those from the Groups The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced bus businesses.
As a result, the Board considers there to be an to and managed by , reports to the Audit acceptable limit to the size of the UK rail business relative to the other Committee and is utilised in monitoring risk management processes to businesses of the Group.
determine whether internal controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
The Group seeks to minimise as far as practical the risk of breaches of laws and regulations and applies a zero tolerance approach to employee A risk-based approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of breaches of legal and regulatory requirements, its own Code of Conduct controls.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the see section 5.4.
5 of this Annual Report, its delegated authority levels integrity and improving, where possible, the Groups risk management and its other internal policies including in respect of health and safety, process in the context of the Groups overall goals.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are as explained in section 1.6.
recommended by the external auditors.
The Board has set a minimum level of undrawn, committed credit lines The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint that the Group should aim to maintain at all times and which should be ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business available for borrowings.
risk management processes through representation on the boards and in the case of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
Stagecoach Stress testing and reverse stress testing are undertaken in respect of management representatives also meet regularly with representatives of major investment proposals, major contract bids including rail franchise joint ventures to ensure that they follow appropriate risk management bids and generally as part of the Boards assessment of the Groups procedures.
The Groups risk appetite and related objectives are reflected in the 4.12.3 Principal risks and uncertainties objectives that the Remuneration Committee sets for the Executive Directors.
For example, one of the Chief Executives current objectives The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing relates to health and safety, while one of the Finance Directors current the Group, including those risks that would threaten the Groups business objectives relates to the Groups investment grade credit ratings and their model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In making that remuneration is partly linked to the achievement of those objectives.
assessment, the Board considered the likelihood of each risk materialising in the short-term and the longer term.
In assessing the longer term viability of the Group see sections 3.11 and 5.5 of this Annual Report for further information on the Groups viability, the Board has considered the principal risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in section 1.4.
5 of this Annual Report and that section includes an explanation of how we aim to appropriately manage and mitigate those risks.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 39 159166 STC AR18 Front PRINT 159166 STC AR18 Front v19 05 07 2018 15:55 Page 40 Corporate governance report view to continuous improvement in the quality of the Groups financial 4.13 Internal control statements.
The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been of the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that the year.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
follows: The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance identifying key risks and opportunities.
The overall Group annual budget function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
business unit to the management accounts received during the year and third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas obtains explanations for any material differences.
where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each safety, treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various and competition policy.
levels of review by the Group Finance function.
a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for operations.
The review includes checking joint control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach internal consistency, consistency with other statements and arithmetical representation on the boards of the entities together with regular accuracy.
contact between Stagecoach management and the management of the The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated relevant entities.
The Audit Committee receives reports from a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups management and the external auditors on significant judgements, senior management based on agreed financial and other performance changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial significant emphasis on cash flow management.
reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a The financial statements of all material business units are subject to four-weekly basis.
reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury The Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The ventures that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, 4.15 Diversity policy including due diligence requirements where material businesses are Information on the diversity policy applied to the Groups Board of being acquired or divested.
Directors is provided in section 6.4 of this Annual Report.
each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the management of each business confirming that they have 4.16 Pension schemes reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the The assets of the bus and rail pension schemes in which the Group year.
participates are held under trust, separate from the assets of the Group a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and are invested with a number of independent fund managers.
There are and which is subject to regular monitoring.
twelve trustees for the principal Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme, two an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance of which are employee representatives nominated by the members on a monitoring.
regional basis and four are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of that scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and years as a fund member elected representative on the National addressed in the normal course of business.
No control failings or Association of Pension Funds investment council, and is a past Trustee weaknesses that are significant to the Group as a whole have been Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme trustees.
The other trustees of identified in the year to 28 April 2018. that scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
4.14 Process for preparing consolidated This Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Sir Ewan Brown, financial statements and also comprises one executive director and other members of senior The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in management.
The Committee's remit covers all matters affecting the relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment on internal financial controls periodically.
strategy, risk management and internal controls surrounding pension Management regularly monitors and considers developments in matters.
accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key By order of the Board finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such Mike Vaux developments.
Company Secretary Any recommendations from the auditors, the Financial Reporting 28 June 2018 Council and others in respect of financial reporting are assessed with a page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc
