Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 37.
Post balance sheet events A final dividend for 2018 of 15 cents per ordinary share was declared by the directors after 31 December 2018.
On 21 February 2019 the Board of the Company approved an entity reorganisation in which it will acquire the direct ownership of Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited currently held by wholly owned subsidiary undertakings Standard Chartered Bank and Standard Chartered Holdings Limited.
This common control transaction will have no financial impact on the consolidated accounts of the Group.
In the Company only accounts, Investments in Subsidiaries will increase with a corresponding increase in equity being the dividend in specie utilised to achieve the reorganisation.
The transaction is subject to Standard Chartered Bank and Standard Chartered Holdings Limited passing necessary resolutions for the dividends in specie and completing the necessary transfers, which are expected to be completed in March 2019.
Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration is included within other general administration expenses.
The amounts paid by the Group to their principal auditor, KPMG LLP and its associates together KPMG, are set out below.
All services are approved by the Group Audit Committee and are subject to controls to ensure the external auditors independence is unaffected by the provision of other services.
1 31.12.18 31.12.17 $million $million Audit fees for the Group statutory audit 9.2 9.4 Fees payable to KPMG for other services provided to the Group: Audit of Standard Chartered PLC subsidiaries 8.3 7.7 Total audit fees 17.5 17.1 Audit-related services 7.0 5.9 Other assurance services 0.3 0.2 Tax compliance and advisory services 0.1 0.3 Corporate finance services 0.2 0.5 Total fees payable 25.1 24.0 1 Prior year balances have been re-presented to align to current year categories The following is a description of the type of services included within the categories listed above: Audit fees for the Group statutory audit are in respect of fees payable to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC Audit-related fees consist of fees such as those for services required by law or regulation to be provided by the auditor, reviews of interim financial information, reporting on regulatory returns, reporting to a regulator on client assets and extended work performed over financial information and controls authorised by those charged with governance Other assurance services include  in relation to statutory and regulatory lings Tax services include services which are not prohibited by the European Directive on Statutory Audits of Annual and Consolidated Accounts and the Regulation on Statutory Audits of Public Interest Entities Corporate finance services are fees payable to KPMG for issuing comfort letters Expenses incurred during the provision of services and which have been reimbursed by the Group are not included within auditors remuneration.
Expenses incurred for 2018 were $0.6 million 2017: $0.9 million.
