Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 29.
Non-controlling interests Accounting policy Non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets.
$million At 1 January 2017 321 Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 49 Comprehensive income for the year 50 Distributions 51 1 Other increases 21 At 31 December 2017 341 Expected credit loss, net 8 At 1 January 2018 333 Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 21 Other profits attributable to non-controlling interests 55 Comprehensive income for the year 34 Distributions 97 2 Other increases 3 At 31 December 2018 273 1 Mainly due to additional shares issued including the premium by Nepal of $12 million and $9 million with respect to an acquisition during 2017 2 Mainly due to additional shares issued by Angola 30.
Retirement benefit obligations Accounting policy The Group operates pension and other post-retirement benefit plans around the world, which can be categorised into dened contribution plans and dened benefit plans.
For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a statutory or contractual basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
For funded dened benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
For unfunded dened benefit plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet date is the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the benefit payments.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income in the period they arise.
The Group determines the net interest expense on the net dened benefit liability for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net dened benefit liability, taking into account any changes in the net dened benefit liability during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense, the cost of the accrual of new benets, benefit enhancements or reductions and administration expenses met directly from plan assets are recognised in the income statement.
Signi cant accounting estimates and judgements There are many factors that affect the measurement of the retirement benefit obligations of the UK Fund and Overseas Plans.
This measurement requires the use of estimates, such as discount rates, ination, pension increases, salary increases, and life expectancies which are inherently uncertain: the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in these assumptions is shown in the Note below.
