Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Standard Life Aberdeen Overview plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which Materiality: comprise the Consolidated income statement: Consolidated 32m 2017: 38m group statement of comprehensive income: Consolidated statement of 4.8% 2017: 4.5% of normalised profit financial financial position: Consolidated statement of changes in equity: before tax statements as Consolidated statement of cash flows: Company statement of a whole financial position: Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes, including the reconciliation of consolidated adjusted Coverage 78% 2017:72% of profits and losses that made profit before tax to IFRS profit for the year and the accounting policies up Group profit before tax in Note 1.
Key audit vs In our opinion: matters 2017 The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Event Driven New: The impact of uncertainties due to Group's and of the parent Company's affairs as at 31 December the UK exiting the European Union on our 2018 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended audit The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Recurring Recoverability of group goodwill and of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Risk parents investment in subsidiaries adopted by the European Union The parent Company financial statements have been properly Event Driven New: Accounting for the obligations prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including arising out of the disposal of Standard Life FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Assurance Limited SLAL The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and investment In Phoenix the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Event Driven New: Carrying value of investment Basis for opinion in Phoenix We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Recurring Valuation of Intangible Assets are described below.
risk We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient Recurring Valuation of defined benefit pension and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent risk scheme obligation with our report to the group audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 16 May 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
106 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties due to the Unprecedented level of uncertainty: We developed a standardised firm-wide UK exiting the European Union on our approach to the consideration of the All audits assess and challenge the audit uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning reasonableness of estimates, in particular as and performing our audits.
Our procedures Refer to page 42 to 47 principal risks, described in the recoverability of group goodwill included: page 39 viability statement and page 63 and the parents investment in subsidiaries, the Audit Committee Report, valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme Our Brexit knowledge We considered the obligation and the carrying value of the investment directors assessment of Brexit-related in Phoenix below, and related disclosures and the sources of risk for the groups business and appropriateness of the going concern basis of financial resources compared with our own preparation of the financial statements see understanding of the risks.
All of these depend on assessments of the directors plans to take action to mitigate the future economic environment and the groups risks.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing In addition, we are required to consider the other recoverability of group goodwill, the parents information presented in the Annual Report investment in subsidiaries and the valuation of including the principal risks disclosure and the the defined benefit pension scheme obligation viability statement and to consider the directors and other areas that depend on forecasts, we statement that the annual report and financial compared the directors analysis to our statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and assessment of the full range of reasonably understandable and provides the information possible scenarios resulting from Brexit necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows are position and performance, business model and required to be discounted, considered strategy.
adjustments to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK and at the date of this report its Assessing transparency As well as effects are subject to unprecedented levels of assessing individual disclosures as part of our uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of procedures on recoverability of group possible effects unknown.
goodwill, the parents investment in subsidiaries, the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme obligation and the carrying value of the investment in Phoenix below, we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results: As reported under the recoverability of group goodwill, the parents investment in subsidiaries, the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme obligation and the carrying value of the investment in Phoenix below, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued The risk Our response Recoverability of group goodwill and of Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: parents investment in subsidiaries Goodwill in the group and the carrying amount of Our valuation and sector expertise: We Group Goodwill: 2,532m: 2017: 3,427m: certain of the parent companys investments in used our own valuation specialists to assist us Goodwill impairment losses recognised: subsidiaries are significant and at risk of in assessing the appropriateness the Group's 891m 2017: 5m irrecoverability due to reductions in assets under valuation model.
This included comparing the management.
The estimated recoverable amount Group discount rate assumptions with our own Company: Investments in subsidiaries, of these balances is subjective due to the inherent estimate of a range of reasonable discount Impairment of subsidiaries: 589m 2017: uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting rates, based on comparable company 20 m future cash flows.
In the current year, goodwill in information.
We also used our sector Refer to page 63 Audit Committee the group was impaired by 891m and the parent experience to evaluate the appropriateness of Report, page 146 accounting policy and companys investments in subsidiaries was assumptions applied in key inputs such as page 147 financial disclosures.
revenue from customers, operating costs and discount rates.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the value in Sensitivity analysis: We performed our own use of goodwill and the recoverable amount of sensitivity analysis which included assessing certain investments in subsidiaries has a high the effect of reasonably possible reductions in degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential growth rates and forecast cash flows to range of reasonable outcomes greater than our evaluate the impact on current headroom materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
and or investment in subsidiaries valuation.
Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and the recoverability of investment in subsidiaries.
Our results: We found the groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in the group and the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
108 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The risk Our response Accounting for the obligations arising Accounting application Our procedures included: out of disposal of SLAL and As SLA's investment in Phoenix is 19.98%, there Assessing principles: We assessed the investment in Phoenix is judgement as to whether Phoenix should be nature of the relationship with Phoenix by Investment in associates 1,023m: accounted for as an associate given significant reviewing the terms in the sale and purchase 2017: Not applicable influence is only presumed to exist per IAS 28 agreement SPA and evaluated these against when 20% of equity is held.
The risk is that the the criteria in IAS 28 to re-perform the Refer to page 63 Audit Committee investment in Phoenix has been inappropriately significant influence assessment.
Report, page 152 accounting policy accounted for as an associate, rather than as an and pages 130 and 153 financial Control design and operation: We tested equity investment.
the design of key controls including over Subjective valuation initial investment in managements process for modelling Phoenix insurance contract liabilities, for setting and updating actuarial assumptions and in respect On investment, SLA's share of the fair value of of the valuation of complex and illiquid the identifiable assets and liabilities of Phoenix financial investments.
was assessed and compared to the cost of the investment.
In doing this, the principle area of risk Benchmarking assumptions and industry relates to the valuation of the acquired value of experience: For key inputs we compared and in-force business AVIF, the valuation of benchmarked the assumptions used, such as insurance contract liabilities and the valuation of the cost of capital, to externally derived data.
This assessment of fair value was We also used our knowledge of industry made by the Directors of SLA and involves practice to challenge the Groups assumptions complex and significant judgements over a in these areas.
Our actuarial experience: We used our own The effect of these matters is that, as part of our actuarial specialists to review and challenge risk assessment, we determined that the the rationale for key assumptions adopted.
accounting for the investment in Phoenix has a Assessing transparency: We assessed high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a whether the groups disclosure of the valuation potential range of reasonable outcomes greater of the investment in Phoenix adequately than our materiality for the financial statements disclose the key judgements and potential as a whole, and possibly many times that estimation uncertainty in deriving the opening amount.
The financial statements Note 16 investment valuation.
disclose the key judgements estimated by the Group.
Our Results We found the initial valuation of the investment in Phoenix to be acceptable.
Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued The risk Our response Accounting for the obligations arising Subjective estimate indemnities Our procedures included: out of the disposal of SLAL and A number of indemnities were included in the SPA Test of details: For a sample of investment in Phoenix continued with Phoenix.
The fair value of these have been indemnities, we reviewed the legal estimated by management and recognised as Contingent consideration Indemnities: documents to assess the obligations arising 2017: Not applicable contingent consideration.
A number of these out of the indemnity.
We obtained evidence involved significant judgement as they relate to to support the valuation calculations made uncertain future events.
The most significant of by management.
which relates to a potential future outflow relating to Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Test of details: We assessed the Report, page 127, accounting policy any loss suffered by SLAL above that already judgements made in determining key provided for in respect of the ongoing review of nonand page 130 and 202 financial assumptions such as eligibility rates, failure disclosures.
This is an area that involves rates and average redress used to significant judgement over the redress payable to calculate the annuity sales provision and customers.
Our actuarial and tax experience: We used our own actuarial and tax specialists to review and challenge the approach taken to estimate certain indemnities.
Assessing transparency: We considered whether the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of the contingent consideration appropriately represent the sensitivity of the provision to the use of alternative assumptions.
Our Results We found the carrying amount of the contingent consideration for indemnities to be acceptable.
Subjective estimate Provision for separation costs Our procedures included: Separation costs provision 80m: 2017: The calculation of the provision for separation costs Test of details: We assessed the terms in arising out of the disposal of SLAL requires the Not applicable the SPA and other documents to confirm that Directors to determine a number of key inputs.
The SLA has a legal obligation to pay for determination of these is judgemental and requires separation costs.
Refer to page 63 Audit Committee the Directors to consider a range of information Test of details: We sampled costs included connected to the Separation Plan.
The most Report, page 126 accounting policy in the Separation Plan and obtained evidence and page 138 financial disclosures.
significant input of which is the costs that are and explanations to validate whether they estimated to relate to separating the business and were appropriately provided for.
which do not relate to costs related to SLA's ongoing business, including development of new Assessing transparency: We assessed systems.
The risk is that the provision is misstated whether the groups disclosures detailing and includes future costs from which the group will separation costs to be incurred adequately derive ongoing benefit.
disclose the potential expense for the Group, including the range of costs and potential The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk estimation uncertainty.
assessment, we determined that the provision for separation costs has a high degree of estimation Our Results uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable We found the estimate of the separation cost outcomes greater than our materiality for the provision to be acceptable.
financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements note 38 disclose the range estimated by the Group.
110 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The risk Our response Carrying value of investment in Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Phoenix At 31 December 2018, the market value of the Assessing principles: We critically assessed 812 million: 2017: Not applicable: investment in Phoenix was significantly below managements approach to estimating the Impairment 228m: 2017: Not applicable the carrying value.
We consider this to be recoverable amount against other estimation objective evidence of impairment per IAS 28. methods permitted by IAS 28 and 36.
Refer to page 63 Audit Committee An impairment review was performed by Report, page 152 accounting policy Comparing valuations: We assessed reasons management using a value in use approach.
for the differences in value under use under the The key judgement was in selecting the different methods.
appropriate approach for estimating the recoverable amount of the investment in Our Results Phoenix.
After consideration of alternatives, We found the valuation of the investment in management determined that the market value Phoenix to be acceptable.
of Phoenix represented the best estimate of future dividends and therefore was used to calculate the value in use.
An impairment charge of 228m was recognised.
Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued The risk Our response Valuation of Intangible Assets Subjective Estimate Our procedures included: Customer relationships and investment The Groups intangible assets include customer Our valuation expertise: We evaluated whether management contracts: 633m, 2017: relationships and investment management there are indicators of impairment that would 774m contracts.
There is a risk of impairment to the trigger an impairment review.
This included a carrying value of these intangible assets.
critical assessment of the business performance, Refer to page 63 Audit Committee such as outflows of assets under management Report, page 146 accounting policy Customer relationship and investment relating to each intangible asset.
management contracts acquired through business combinations comprise 633 million of Where indicators were identified, we used our own the intangible asset balance.
valuation specialists to assist us in assessing the appropriateness the Group's valuation model.
This The valuation of these intangible assets is included comparing the Group discount rate subjective and requires the use of assumptions assumptions with our own estimate of a range of relating to future cash flows and the use of reasonable discount rates, based on comparable valuation models.
In addition, management company information.
need to make subjective judgements when assessing whether there are any indicators of Our sector experience: Where there was an impairment to these intangible assets.
indicator of impairment, we evaluated the appropriateness of assumptions applied in key The effect of these matters is that, as part of our inputs such as revenue from contracts with risk assessment, we determined that the value customers, operating costs and discount rates.
in use of these assets has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of Sensitivity analysis: Where there is an indicator reasonable outcomes greater than our of impairment, we performed our own sensitivity materiality for the financial statements as a analysis which included assessing the effect of whole and possibly many times that amount.
reasonably possible reductions in growth rates and The financial statements Note 14 disclose the forecast cash flows to evaluate the impact on sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: We considered whether the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the valuation of management contract and customer relationship intangible assets appropriately represent the sensitivities of the asset valuations to the use of alternative assumptions.
Our results We found the valuation of intangible assets to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
112 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The risk Our response Valuation of the UK defined benefit Subjective Valuation: Our procedures included: pension scheme present value of The present value of the Groups funded Our actuarial experience: We used our own funded obligation obligation for the UK defined benefit pension actuarial specialists to perform procedures in this 2,542m, 2017: 2,839m scheme is an area that involves significant area.
judgement over the uncertain future Refer to page 63 Audit Committee Test of detail and our sector experience: We settlement value.
The Group is required to Report, page 178 accounting policy and considered the appropriateness of the base use judgment in the selection of key page 180 financial disclosures.
mortality assumption by reference to scheme and assumptions covering both operating industry data on historical mortality experience.
We considered the appropriateness of the The key operating assumptions are base mortality improvement assumptions by reference mortality and mortality improvement.
to industry based expectations of future mortality The key economic assumptions are the improvements.
We considered the discount rate and inflation.
The risk is that appropriateness of the discount rate and inflation inappropriate assumptions are used in assumptions by reference to industry practice.
determining the present value of the funded Benchmarking assumptions and our sector obligation.
experience: We utilised the results of KPMG The effect of these matters is that, as part of benchmarking of base mortality, mortality our risk assessment, we determined that the improvement, discount rate and inflation valuation of the pension scheme obligation assumptions and our knowledge of industry has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, practice to inform our challenge of the Groups with a potential range of reasonable assumptions in these areas.
outcomes greater than our materiality for the Assessing transparency: We considered financial statements as a whole and possibly whether the Groups disclosures in relation to the many times that amount.
The financial assumptions used in the calculation of present statements Note 35 disclose the range value of the funded obligation appropriately estimated by the Group.
represent the sensitivities of the obligation to the use of alternative assumptions.
Our results We found the valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme obligation to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over the valuation of internally generated software assets not yet available for use and the valuation of level 3 financial instruments and investment property.
However, following the groups disposal of its UK and Europe insurance business, SLAL, in the period, we have not assessed either of these areas as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, they are not separately identified in our report.
In respect of level 3 financial instruments we note that the disposal of the groups UK and Europe insurance business has led to a significant reduction of 1.1bn in the Groups investment portfolio.
The risk of material misstatement within the financial statements in respect of valuation of the remaining assets 62m is reduced.
311m of the internally generated software assets were within SLAL and following the disposal, the remaining assets balance is not considered to create the same risk of material misstatement.
Non-Participating insurance contract liabilities and the provision for annuity sales practice were both balances within the SLAL entity.
The disposal has resulted in these being transferred to Phoenix and therefore neither are identified as individual key audit matters within our report this year.
They are however both identified areas of significant risk within the accounting for the obligations arising out of the disposal of SLAL and investment in Phoenix.
Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 32m 2017: 38m, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax normalised to exclude impairment, to exclude restructuring costs, to exclude the profit on disposal of associates and the profit on disposal of the UK and Europe insurance business as disclosed in Note 14, Note 8, Note 16, and Note 10 respectively.
Materiality represents 4.8% of normalised profit before tax.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 19m 2017:17m, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised profit before tax, of which it represents 3.6% 2017:4.9%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.6m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 75 2017: 227, of which 160 were consolidated funds continuing reporting components, we subjected 6 2017: 19 to full scope audits for group purposes and 3 2017: 13 to specified riskfocused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
We conducted a review of financial information for one non-significant component 2017:1.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
The remaining 16% of total group revenue, 22% of group profit before tax and 10% of total group assets is represented by 246 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of any of total group revenue, or total group assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 2.0m to 20.8m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 8 of the 9 continuing components 2017: 32 of the 33 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
114 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Based solely on that work we have not identified material 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern misstatements in the other information.
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Strategic report and directors report Group or to cease their operations and as they have concluded that Based solely on our work on the other information the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material We have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to and the directors report continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of In our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
year is consistent with the financial statements Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the In our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty the Companies Act 2006 related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
Directors remuneration report However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the Companies Act 2006. absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability operation.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the to: inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys The directors confirmation within the viability statement page 39 financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over model, future performance, solvency and liquidity this period were: The Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and Movements in investment markets and assets under management explaining how they are being managed and mitigated The impact of Brexit on the Groups revenues The directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the have done so and why they considered that period to be Groups and the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, we appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
of Brexit, which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only resources.
the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments We have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material Group's and Companys longer-term viability.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from Corporate governance disclosures the date of approval of the financial statements We are required to report to you if: The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 49 is We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors' We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify statement that they consider that the annual report and financial going concern as a key audit matter.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information the Group's position and performance, business model and strategy in the Annual Report The section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit The directors are responsible for the other information presented in Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion by us to the Audit Committee on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Listing Rules for our review.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Life Aberdeen plc continued profits legislation, taxation legislation and pensions regulations 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and which we are required to report by exception regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in statement items.
our opinion: Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for from branches not visited by us instance through the imposition of fines or litigation.
We identified The parent company financial statements and the part of the the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement specific areas of regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct including with the accounting records and returns client assets, money laundering, market abuse regulations and Certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial not made and regulated nature of the groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with We have not received all the information and explanations we these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other require for our audit management and inspection of regulatory and legal We have nothing to report in these respects.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Respective responsibilities Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an Directors' responsibilities unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 103, the misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: auditing standards.
For example, the further rem oved nonsuch internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the preparation of financial statements that are free from material events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing parent company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not realistic alternative but to do so.
responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be Auditor's responsibilities expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, our responsibilities whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, issue our opinion in an auditor's report.
Reasonable assurance is a in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material to the Companys members those matters we are required to state misstatement when it exists.
to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, taken on the basis of the financial statements.
or for the opinions we have formed.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC's website at: www.
uk  Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience and through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor directors and other management the policies and procedures Chartered Accountants regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We Saltire Court communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance EH1 2EG throughout the audit.
13 March 2019 The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable 116 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018
