Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the accounts and the Group and Company financial statements in annual financial report accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and as a whole have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in The Directors report and Strategic report include a fair review of the accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 development and performance of the business and the position of Reduced Disclosure Framework.
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view and uncertainties that they face of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their We consider the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary company financial statements, the Directors are required to: for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently business model and strategy.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, By order of the Board reliable and prudent For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Assess the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern Use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or Sir Douglas Flint have no realistic alternative but to do so Chairman The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 13 March 2019 records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have Bill Rattray general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to Chief Financial Officer them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
13 March 2019 Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 103 Financial information How to navigate our Group financial statements The Groups significant accounting policies are included at the beginning of the relevant notes to the Group financial statements with this background colour.
Critical judgements in applying accounting policies are summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements section which follows the primary financial statements.
Accounting policies that are relevant to the financial statements as a whole are also set out in that section.
The Groups critical accounting estimates and assumptions are summarised in the Presentation of consolidated financial statements section which follows the primary financial statements.
Further detail on these critical accounting estimates and assumptions is provided in the relevant note with this background colour.
104 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Contents 106 7.
Supplementary information Group financial statements 117 164 Group primary statements Note 25.
Cash and cash equivalents 124 164 Presentation of consolidated financial statements Note 26.
Issued share capital and share premium Note 1.
Shares held by trusts 165 131 166 Note 2.
Movements in other reserves Note 4.
Revenue from contracts with customers 135 Note 30.
Insurance contracts, investment contracts and reinsurance contracts 137 Note 6.
Staff costs and other employee-related costs 176 Note 32.
Restructuring and corporate transaction 177 expenses Note 34.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit provisions 142 Note 10.
Adjusted profit and adjusting items 185 Note 38.
Provisions and other liabilities 146 Note 13.
Dividends on ordinary shares Note 39.
Fair value of assets and liabilities 152 Note 16.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Note 42.
Statement of cash flows 207 156 Note 17.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets 157 Note 18.
Property, plant and equipment 210 Note 44.
Employee share-based payments and 211 159 Note 20.
Loans deferred fund awards 160 Note 21.
Receivables and other financial assets 215 Note 47.
Events after the reporting date 163 Note 24.
Assets and liabilities held for sale 217 Note 49.
Related undertakings Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 105
