Glossary Aberdeen Asset Management or Aberdeen accounted for when paid as if interest is not paid it is cancelled, is excluded from adjusted profit.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, or Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and its subsidiaries.
Assets under management and administration AUMA Adjusted cash generation AUMA is a measure of the total assets we manage or administer on behalf of our clients and customers.
It includes assets under Adjusted cash generation presents a shareholder view of cash management AUM and assets under administration AUA.
The calculation of this measure has been amended does not include AUM AUA for associates and joint ventures and is following the merger.
For the Aberdeen Standard Investments element also only presented on a continuing operations basis.
of the Asset management and platforms segment, adjusted cash generation adjusts IFRS net cash flows from operating activities for AUM is a measure of the total assets that Aberdeen Standard restructuring and corporate transaction expenses paid.
For the Investments manages on behalf of individual customers and platforms and corporate centre elements of the Asset management institutional clients.
AUM also includes assets managed for corporate and platforms segment, adjusted cash generation removes certain purposes.
non-cash items from adjusted profit before tax.
Adjustments are made AUA is a measure of the total assets we administer for customers for deferred acquisition costs deferred income reserve and through our Platforms.
Adjusted cash generation is stated net of current cash tax.
IFRS net cash flows from operating activities is not Board used as the basis for these segments as it includes policyholder cash The Board of Directors of the Company.
flows, and does not exclude adjusting items.
For the Insurance associates and joint ventures segment, adjusted cash generation Capital management reflects dividends received in the period.
Capital management is a component of adjusted profit and relates to the return from the net assets of the shareholder business, net of costs Adjusted operating expenses of financing.
This includes the net assets in defined benefit staff Adjusted operating expenses is a component of adjusted profit and pension plans and net assets relating to the financing of subordinated relates to the day-to-day expenses of managing our business.
Adjusted operating income Chief Operating Decision Maker Adjusted operating income is a component of adjusted profit and The executive committee.
consists of fee based revenue and spread risk margin.
Company Adjusted profit Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
Prior to the merger, Standard Life plc.
Adjusted profit before tax is the Groups key alternative performance measure.
Adjusted profit excludes the impact of the following items: Cost income ratio This is an efficiency measure that is calculated as adjusted operating Restructuring costs and corporate transaction expenses.
expenses divided by adjusted operating income, and includes the Restructuring includes the impact of major regulatory change.
share of associates and joint ventures profit before tax.
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in CRD IV business combinations and through the purchase of customer contracts CRD IV is the European regulatory capital regime comprising the Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements Regulation Profit or loss arising on the disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or that applies to investment firms.
Following the sale of the UK and associate European insurance business to Phoenix, the Group is supervised Fair value movements in contingent consideration under the CRD IV regulatory regime for group prudential supervisory Items which are one-off and, due to their size or nature, are not purposes.
Previously, SLA was regulated as an insurance group indicative of the long-term operating performance of the Group subject to Solvency II.
Adjusted profit also excludes impacts arising from short-term Director fluctuations in investment return variances formerly called short-term A Director of the Company.
fluctuations in investment return and economic assumption changes in the Groups insurance entities.
It is calculated based on expected Earnings per share EPS returns on investments backing equity holder funds, with consistent EPS is a commonly used financial metric which can be used to allowance for the corresponding expected movements in equity holder measure the profitability and strength of a company over time.
Impacts arising from the difference between the expected calculated by dividing profit by the number of ordinary shares.
Basic return and actual return on investments, and the corresponding impact EPS uses the weighted average number of ordinary shares on equity holder liabilities except where they are directly related to a outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS adjusts the weighted significant management action, are excluded from adjusted profit and average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion are presented within profit before tax.
The impact of certain changes in of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share options awarded economic assumptions is also excluded from adjusted profit and is to employees.
presented within profit before tax.
Effective tax rate Coupons payable on perpetual notes classified as non-controlling Tax expense credit attributable to equity holders profit divided by interests for which interest is accrued are included in adjusted profit profit before tax attributable to equity holders profits expressed as a before tax.
For IFRS purposes, these are recognised directly in equity.
This gave rise to an adjusting item in 2017, prior to the reclassification Elevate of such instruments to subordinated liabilities on 18 December 2017.
Dividends payable on preference shares classified as non-controlling Elevate adviser platform acquired through the purchase of the entire interests are excluded from adjusted profit in line with the treatment of share capital of AXA Portfolio Services Limited, subsequently renamed ordinary shares.
Similarly to preference shares, our share of interest Elevate Portfolio Services Limited.
payable on Tier 1 debt instruments held by associates, which are only 252 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 OTHER INFORMATION Executive committee information technology or data security breaches: natural or manmade catastrophic events: the failure to attract or retain necessary key Responsible for supporting the Co-Chief Executives in the day-to-day personnel: the policies and actions of regulatory authorities: and the running of the business and comprises: Co-Chief Executives and the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and functional regional leaders for UK, Finance, Distribution, Americas, tax and other legislation and regulations including changes to the EMEA, Asia Pacific, People and Investment Management.
regulatory capital requirements that the Company is subject to in the Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate.
As a FVTPL is an IFRS measurement basis permitted for assets and result, the Companys actual future financial condition, performance liabilities which meet certain criteria.
Gains or losses on assets or and results may differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and liabilities measured at FVTPL are recognised directly in the income expectations set forth in the forward-looking statements.
receiving this document should not place undue reliance on forwardlooking statements.
Neither the Company nor its affiliates assume any FCA obligation to update or correct any of the forward-looking statements Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
contained in this document or any other forward-looking statements it Fee based business revenue or they may make whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Past performance is Fee based business is a component of adjusted profit and includes not an indicator of future results and the results of the Company and products where we generate revenue primarily from asset its affiliates in this document may not be indicative of, and are not an management charges AMCs, premium based charges and estimate, forecast or projection of, the Companys or its affiliates future transactional charges.
AMCs are earned on products such as SIPP, results.
corporate pensions and mutual funds, and are calculated as a percentage fee based on the assets held.
Investment risk on these Global absolute return strategies GARS products rests principally with the customer, with our major indirect A discretionary multi-asset fund provided under several regulated exposure to rising or falling markets coming from higher or lower pooled and segregated structures globally by Aberdeen Standard AMCs.
Fee based revenue is shown net of fees, commissions and Investments.
The investment objective is to target a level of return over similar charges e. g. rebates and initial charges.
a rolling three-year period equivalent to cash plus 5% a year gross of Fee revenue yield bps fees, and to do so with as little risk as possible.
The average revenue yield on fee based business is a measure that Group, Standard Life Aberdeen Group or Standard Life illustrates the average margin being earned on the assets that we Aberdeen manage or administer.
It is calculated as annualised fee based Relates to the Company and its subsidiaries following the completion revenue excluding performance fees, SL Asia, 1825, Focus and of the merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Management Threesixty divided by monthly average fee based assets under PLC on 14 August 2017. management administration.
ICAAP Forward looking statements Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The ICAAP is the This document may contain certain forward-looking statements with means by which the Group assesses the level of capital that respect to the financial condition, performance, results, strategy, adequately supports all of the relevant current and future risks in its objectives, plans, goals and expectations of the Company and its business.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
ForwardInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRS looking statements are prospective in nature and are not based on International Financial Reporting Standards are accounting standards historical facts, but rather on current expectations and projections of issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The management about future events, and are therefore subject to risks Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially with IFRS as endorsed by the EU.
All EU-listed companies are from the future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking required to prepare consolidated financial statements using IFRS statements.
For example, statements containing words such as may, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as will, should, could, continue, aims, estimates, projects, endorsed by the EU.
The IFRS financial results in the Strategic report believes, intends, expects, hopes, plans, pursues, seeks, and in the Group financial statements have been prepared on the targets and anticipates, and words of similar meaning, may be basis of the IFRS accounting policies as disclosed in the Group forward-looking.
These statements are based on assumptions and financial statements section of this report.
assessments made by the Company in light of its experience and its Investment performance perception of historical trends, current conditions, future developments Investment performance has been aggregated using a money and other factors it believes appropriate.
By their nature, all forwardweighted average of our assets under management which are looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they are outperforming their respective benchmarks on a gross of fees basis.
based on information available at the time they are made, including Benchmarks differ by fund and are defined in each funds Investment current expectations and assumptions, and relate to future events and Management Agreement for example, the benchmark for our GARS depend on circumstances which may be or are beyond the Companys unit trust fund is six-month GBP LIBOR.
For total AUM, the control, including among other things: UK domestic and global political, investment performance calculation covers 81% of Aberdeen economic and business conditions such as the UKs exit from the Standard Investments AUM, with certain assets excluded such as EU : market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and non-discretionary portfolios e. g. full replication tracker funds or funds exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally: where no applicable index is available such as Aberdeen Standard the impact of inflation and deflation: the impact of competition: the Capital funds.
timing, impact and other uncertainties associated with future acquisitions, disposals or combinations undertaken by the Company or its affiliates and or within relevant industries: the value of and earnings from Standard Life Aberdeens strategic investments and ongoing commercial relationships: default by counterparties: Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 253 11.
Glossary continued Key performance indicators KPI Spread risk business A measure by reference to which the development, performance or Spread risk business relates to our discontinued UK and European position of the business can be measured effectively.
insurance business and mainly comprises products where we provide a guaranteed level of income for our customers in return for an Net flows investment, for example, annuities.
The spread referred to in the title Net flows represent gross inflows less gross outflows or redemptions.
primarily relates to the difference between the guaranteed amount we Gross inflows are new funds from clients and customers.
Gross pay to customers and the actual return on the assets over the period of outflows or redemptions is the money withdrawn by clients or the contract.
Spread risk margin Phoenix or Phoenix Group Spread risk margin is a component of adjusted profit and reflects the Phoenix Group Holdings plc or Phoenix Group Holdings plc and its margin earned on spread risk business.
This includes net earned subsidiaries.
premiums, claims and benefits paid, net investment return using longterm assumptions and reserving changes.
Spread risk margin Pillar 1 excludes the impact of economic assumption changes, which are not Under CRD IV, Pillar 1 focuses on fixed overhead requirements and included in determining adjusted profit.
the Groups exposure to credit and market risks in respect of riskweighted assets, and sets a minimum requirement for capital based Standard Life on these measures.
Following completion of the sale of our UK and European insurance business to Phoenix in August 2018, we have retained ownership of Pillar 2 the Standard Life brand while also licensing it to Phoenix.
The The requirement for companies to assess the level of additional capital Standard Life brand will continue to be a prominent feature of our retail held against risks not covered in Pillar 1. platforms.
Pillar 3 Standard Life Group This complements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with the aim of improving Prior to demutualisation on 10 July 2006, The Standard Life market discipline by requiring companies to publish certain details of Assurance Company 2006 and its subsidiaries and, from their risks, capital and risk management.
The Groups Pillar 3 demutualisation on 10 July 2006 to 13 August 2017, Standard Life plc disclosures will be published on the Groups website at and its subsidiaries.
Strategic insurance partners A measure of the assets managed on behalf of a number of strategic Platform partners such as Lloyds Banking Group and Phoenix.
An investment platform e. g. Wrap or Elevate which is essentially a trading platform enabling investment funds, pensions, direct equity Subordinated liabilities holdings and some life assurance contracts to be held in the same Subordinated liabilities are debts of a company which, in the event of administrative account rather than as separate holdings.
liquidation, rank below its other debts but above share capital.
Pro forma basis Underpin The merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen completed on 14 In relation to remuneration, refers to a further performance condition August 2017, with the merger accounted for as an acquisition of that is required to be met in addition to the performance targets when Aberdeen by Standard Life plc on that date.
Pro forma results for the determining the vesting of an award.
Group are prepared as if Standard Life Group and Aberdeen had always been merged and are included for comparative periods to assist in explaining trends in financial performance by showing a full 12 months performance for the combined Group for all years.
Reported basis The merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen completed on 14 August 2017, with the merger accounted for as an acquisition of Aberdeen by Standard Life plc on that date.
The financial statements for 2017 have been prepared on this basis, with Aberdeen results included only from the date of merger onwards.
This is referred to as the Reported basis.
Retail Our UK Retail business offers a range of leading asset administration and financial planning services to advised and non-advised customers through our retail Platforms Wrap, Elevate and Fundzone and our 1825 financial advice business.
SLAL Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Solvency II Solvency II is the European regulatory capital regime that applies to insurance firms.
