SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Shareholder information Registered office and contact Dividends Share price information An interim dividend for the financial year ended 28 April 2018 of The latest Superdry Plc share price is available on information 9.3p per ordinary share was paid on 26 January 2018.
com Unit 60 The Runnings dividend of 21.9p per share has been proposed and, subject to Cheltenham approval at the AGM, will be paid on 21 September 2018 to all Unauthorised brokers boiler room Gloucestershire shareholders on the register on 13 July 2018.
GL51 9NW scams Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank account, Registered in England and Wales Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders address.
Registered Number 07063562 advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free A dividend mandate form is available from Computershare or at T: 44 0 01242 578 376 company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment www.
co. uk advice, get the correct name of the person and organisation and Shareholder enquiries may be submitted to check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct company.
com Electronic communications Authority FCA before getting involved by visiting This report and other information on Superdry Plc is available to Shareholders may choose to receive all shareholder www.
uk register download on corporate.
com documentation in electronic form rather than paper.
If you elect If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised firm this option you will receive an email each time a shareholder you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on General shareholder enquiries document is published on our website.
More detailed information can be found at Enquiries relating to shareholders, such as the transfer of Tax vouchers and annual statements will be sent to your Investor www.
uk consumers protect-yourself unauthorised-firms shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or Centre account.
You can register for the Investor Centre at dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys registrar, www.
com investor Cautionary statement Computershare, using the details below: This Annual Report and Accounts Report contains certain To receive documentation in electronic form you just need to Computershare Investor Services Plc forward-looking statements with respect to the financial change your preference on your Investor Centre account or, The Pavilions condition, results of the operations and businesses of Superdry alternatively, you can call the shareholder information line on Bridgwater Road Plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk, uncertainty and 0370 889 3102.
Bristol assumptions because they relate to events and depend upon BS99 6ZZ circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of Share dealing factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ Shareholder information line: 0370 889 3102.
Lines are open Superdry Plc certificated shares can be traded through most materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardMonday to Friday, excluding bank holidays and weekends, banks, building societies or stockbrokers.
These forward-looking statements are made 8.30am to 5.30pm.
Please dial 44 370 889 3102 if calling from telephone and internet dealing services.
Terms and conditions only as at the date of this Report.
Except as required by law, outside the UK.
and details of the commission charges are available on request.
Superdry Plc has no obligation to update the forward-looking For those with hearing difficulties, a textphone is available on 0370 702 statements or to correct any inaccuracies therein.
This service is available Monday-Friday from 8.00am to 4.30pm 0005 for UK callers with compatible equipment.
excluding bank holidays and weekends, where a professional The information contained within this Report is deemed to and qualified dealer will be pleased to assist you.
If you would constitute inside information as stipulated under the Market Annual General Meeting like to use the service please call 0370 703 0084.
Please ensure Abuse Regulations EU No.
Upon the publication of The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30am on you have your Shareholder Reference Number SRN ready when this Report, this inside information is now considered to be in the Tuesday 11 September 2018 at the offices of Investec Bank making the call.
The SRN appears on your share certificate or public domain.
The notice of the your nominee statement.
meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at To register for internet dealing services visit the meeting, is available on corporate.
co. uk The voting results of the 2018 AGM will be accessible on corporate.
com shortly after the meeting.
