N otes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation Basis of preparation TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The registered office of the Company is 11 Evesham Street, London, W11 4AR.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of telecommunication services to Retail and B2B customers.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements therefore comply with Article 4 of the European Union International Accounting Standard regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and investments.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million, because that is the currency of the principal economic environment in which the Group operates.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and entities which are joint ventures accounted for using the equity method up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included from or to the date on which control passed to or was relinquished by the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries and the results of joint ventures to bring accounting policies in line with those used by the Group: Alternative Performance Measures APMs In response to the Guidelines on APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA and the Financial Reporting Council FRC, additional information on the APMs used by the Group is provided below.
The following APMs are used by the Group: Headline revenue excluding Carrier and Off-net : Headline net debt: and Headline EBITDA: Net debt.
Headline basic EPS: Further explanation of what each APM comprises and reconciliations between Statutory reported measures and Headline measures are shown in notes 2, 9 and 10.
Refer to page 118 for comprehensive descriptions of all APMs including their relevance in providing supplementary information that assists the user to understand better the financial performance, position and trends of the Group.
In addition, in response to the Guidelines on APMs issued by ESMA and the FRC and with a view to simplifing the Groups reporting, the Group has reduced the number ofAPMs used compared to the prior year.
The APMs no longer used by the Group are Headline revenue, Headline EBITDA margin, Headline operating profit, Headline profit before taxation, Headline profit after taxation, Headline free cash flow and Headline leverage.
Headline measures represent trading results before non-Headline items which are defined in note 9.
The Board believes that presentation ofthe Group results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the Group's financial performance, as non-Headline items are identified byvirtue of their size, nature and or incidence.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management, reported to the Board, the basis of financial measures for senior managements compensation schemes and assists in providing supplementary information that assists the user to understand better the financial performance, position and trends of the Group.
In determining whether an event or transaction is non-Headline, the Board considers both quantitative and qualitative factors suchas the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
During the year, the Group has refined its policy in relation to non-Headline items so as to streamline its application, simplify the Groups reporting and ensure consistency between Headline and non-Headline performance.
In particular, the Board considers the recognition of service level related credits should be included in Headline performance, consistent with the recognition of the associated costs for which the Group is being compensated.
The MVNO operating loss, being in relation to a business being exited, has also been recognised within non-Headline results.
On this basis prior year results have been restated, giving rise to a decrease in the Groups Headline revenue of 63m, an increase in theGroups Headline EBITDA of 57m and an increase in Groups Headline profit before taxation of 66m.
There is no impact on the Statutory performance of the Group or the Groups consolidated balance sheet, further detail is set out in note 9.
The APMs used by the Group are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
All APMs relate to the current year results and comparative periods where provided.
Cash flow statement presentation During the year, management has reviewed its cash flow statement presentation.
As a result of this review movements in provisions have been re-presented within operating cash flows before movements in working capital.
This is because management believe it to be more appropriate for movements in provisions not to be part of the Groups working capital.
The prior year cash flow statement has been restated accordingly, resulting in an increase in operating cash flows before movement in working capital by 8m.
There is no impact on cash generated from operations.
In addition, management has decided to split interest paid in financial activities to present arrangement fees separately.
The prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 75 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Going concern Our business activities, together with the factors likely to affect our future performance and market position are set out in the Chief Executives Review.
Our financial position, cash and borrowing facilities are described within this Chief Financial Officers statement, together with further detail on other sources of finance including receivables financing and commitments given in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
We have 1,115m of committed credit facilities and as at 31 March 2018 the headroom on these facilities was 348m.
Our forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that there is sufficient cash and covenant headroom on our facilities.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed in respect of certain scenarios, including an increase in churn, lower net adds growth and lower than expected cost savings, and we have considered mitigating actions and cash management activities within the Groups control in the event of a breach in covenant.
This, together with our market positioning, means that we are well placed to manage our business risks successfully and have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
The Directors have therefore adopted the going concern basis of accounting in relation to the preparation of the financial statements.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
Thislonger term viability statement is set out within the Annual Report on page 38.
Accounting policies The Groups principal accounting policies, which relate to the consolidated financial statements as a whole, are set out below.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU-endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, whether these are effective in the current or later years.
In both cases it is explained how they are expected to impact the performance of the Group.
Revenue Revenue is stated net of VAT and other sales related taxes and represents the gross inflow of economic benefit generated from the provision of fixed line, TV and mobile telecommunications services.
All such revenue is recognised as the services are provided: line rental is recognised in the period to which it relates: voice and broadband subscriptions are recognised in the period to which they relate: usage including voice and TV content is recognised in the period in which the customer takes the service: promotional discounts and credits are amortised on a straight-line basis over the minimum contract period: in the absence of a minimum contract period an average contract period is used: and data service solutions and other service contracts are recognised as the Group fulfils its performance obligations.
Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the Group sells a number of products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
Management applies judgement in determining the amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements, limited to the amounts billed for thatelement on the basis of recoverability.
Where the Group sells hardware to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition, hardware revenue is recognised when risk and rewards of the related hardware are transferred to the outsourced third party.
Subscriber acquisition costs Subscriber acquisition costs include both third party costs of recruiting and retaining new customers as well as device costs.
These are expensed as incurred.
Certain subscriber acquisition costs relate to revenue share arrangements with third parties payable over a definable period subject to customer churn.
Revenue share payable under these arrangements is recognised as an expense at the same time as the related revenue is recognised.
Reimbursement of subscriber acquisition costs from third parties are recognised on customer acquisition.
Foreign currency translation and transactions Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and are recognised in the financial statements at the exchange rates obtained.
Unhedged transactions are recorded at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement has been applied in the current and preceding financial year by marking to market the relevant financial instruments at the balance sheet date and recognising the gain or loss through other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges.
The principal exchange rates against UK Sterling used in these financial statements are as follows: Average Closing 2018 2017 2018 2017 Euro 1.14 1.19 1.14 1.17 United States Dollar 1.34 1.30 1.40 1.25 76 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Leases The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed.
Gains or losses from sale and leaseback transactions are deferred over the life of the new lease to the extent that the rentals are considered to be above or below market rentals.
The remaining gain or loss is recognised within operating expenses in the year in which the sale is completed.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised in the Group balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Amounts receivable from suppliers included within trade and other receivables Occasionally, the Group enters into agreements with certain suppliers for rebates on the cost of goods purchased.
Judgement is applied bymanagement in these circumstances to ensure that the rebate is recognised over the appropriate financial period.
Income from suppliers in the year related to renegotiated contract rates and compensation received under existing contracts.
Where these amounts relate to historical transactions, negotiated in the current year, they are recognised in the current year income statement.
Where they relate to future transactions, negotiated in the current year, they are recognised in accordance with the contractual terms.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand and bank deposits.
Trade payables Trade payables are other financial liabilities initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
Theaccounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Borrowings Borrowings represent committed and uncommitted bank loans, US Private Placement Notes, Senior Notes, a receivables purchase agreement and bank overdrafts.
These are initially measured at net proceeds and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of external financing are capitalised and amortised over the term of the relevant facility.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Bank overdrafts and other committed loans that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management process and are included as a component ofcash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issuance costs.
Shares in the Company held by the Group ESOT are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Other assets and liabilities held by the trust are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the framework approved by the Board, which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with theGroups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 77 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value ateach reporting date.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedgeaccounting, or the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk.
The Group designates these as cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Measurement The financial instruments included on the Group balance sheet are measured at fair value or amortised cost.
The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations.
The different valuation methods are called hierarchies and are described below: Level 1: Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Change in accounting estimates In light of the most up to date customer data, the Group has revised its accounting estimates in relation to the average contract period that certain promotional discounts and credits are amortised over, giving rise to an increase in the Groups Headline EBITDA of 2m 2017: 5m.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are continually reviewed and revised as necessary.
Whilst every effort is made to ensure that such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, by their nature they are uncertain, and as such changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material impact.
The principal items in the financial statements involving critical accounting judgements are as follows: Forecast assumptions used in the going concern and viability statement assessments When the Directors review forecast assumptions used in the going concern assessment, they apply judgement on what is considered reasonably possible changes in trading performance, how likely sources of finance will be renewed and whether certain future commitments will crystallise.
In relation to the viability statement, the Directors take into account the Groups current financial position, and give judgement on which hypothetical scenarios linked to the Groups principle risks would be necessarily severe for the purpose of creating outcomes that have the ability to threaten the viability of the Group and consequently give rise to the need for mitigating actions.
These judgements are subjective innature but such considerations are necessary for the Directors to confirm the viability of the Group and the treatment of it as a going concern.
Classification of item as non-Headline Headline measures represent trading results before non-Headline items which are defined in note 9.
The Directors believe that presentation of the Group results in this way is relevant to assist the user to understand better the financial performance, position and trends of the Group, as non-Headline items are identified by virtue of their size, nature and or incidence.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management, reported to the Board, the basis of financial measures for senior managements compensation schemes and assists in providing supplementary information that allows the user to understand better the underlying trading results.
Indetermining whether an event or transaction is non-Headline, the Directors consider both quantitative and qualitative factors such asthenature of the item and the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Revenue share arrangements with third parties Certain subscriber acquisition costs relate to revenue share arrangements with third parties payable over a definable period subject to customer churn.
Revenue share payable under these arrangements are recognised as an expense at the same time as the related revenue is recognised.
Management applies judgement on the application and interpretation of the contractual relationship that includes periodic retrospective reviews.
Such reviews ensure that the revenue share and related reimbursement on customer acquisition is recognised based upon actual customer churn data and costs for each accounting period and that recognition is recognised within the appropriate financial period.
Revenue recognition for bundled transactions When the Group sells several products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
Management applies judgement in determining the amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements, limited to the amounts billed for that element on the basis of recoverability.
The rationale for this judgement is to ensure the total consideration from an arrangement is allocated on an appropriate basis relative to the fair value of goods and services provided to the customer.
78 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Hardware revenue to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition Where the Group sells hardware to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition, hardware revenue is recognised when risk and rewards of the related hardware is transferred to the outsourced third party.
Management applies judgement in determining when risk and rewards have transferred to the outsourced third party.
The rationale of this judgement is to ensure that revenue is recognised in the appropriate financial period when risk and rewards have transferred to the outsourced third party.
Amounts receivable from suppliers The Group may enter agreements with certain suppliers which include the opportunity for rebates on the cost of goods purchased.
Income may also relate to changes in contract rates or compensation received under existing contracts.
Management applies judgement in relation to assessing the appropriate timing of recognition based on the nature of the income, whether the Group has discharged its obligations and the likelihood of receipt.
Consideration is also given as to whether it should be treated as income or a reduction in the value of inventory.
The principal items in the financial statements involving key sources of estimation uncertainty are: Service level related disputes The Groups results include the recognition of certain service level related credits from suppliers to compensate the Group where the supplier has not operated within the contractual terms of these arrangements.
The quantification of service level related credits may be subject to regulatory guidance, legal ruling or alternative dispute resolution processes.
During the year, following a detailed independent assessment of underlying data and the Group has reviewed its estimation in relation to certain claims.
At 31 March 2018, a receivable of 46m 2017: 32m existed in relation to such claims, the resolution of which may give risetoan increase or decrease in the level of receivable recognised.
This is without prejudice to the Groups legal position.
Taxation The value of deferred tax asset may be uncertain as the extent to which tax losses can be utilised depends on future taxable profits and on the tax legislation then in force.
Recovery of the deferred tax asset relating to tax losses is estimated over a ten year time horizon using an extrapolation of the Groups threeyear plan.
Sensitivities have been applied to these forecasts as noted in the viability statement on page 38.
Forecast profits within theten year agreed time horizon impacts the level of the deferred tax asset recognition.
Accordingly, an increase or decrease in future profitability would increase or decrease the asset recognised.
Application of significant new or amended EU-endorsed accounting standards There are no new or revised standards and interpretations that have had a material impact on the Group during the year.
Future accounting developments At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, there were a number of significant standards and interpretations that have not been applied in these consolidated financial statements: these were in issue, but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU.
The Directors expect that the following standards will have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group in future periods: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, impacting the disclosure within the financial instruments.
The Group will implement this standard for the year ended 31 March 2020.
Management continue to review the impact of this standard.
IFRS 15 FRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers impacts the amount, timing and recognition of revenue and certain associated costs, as well as related disclosures.
The Group will implement this standard for the year ended 31 March 2019 and will present the first-time application of IFRS 15 using the modified retrospective method, applying a one-off cumulative effect of transition to retained earnings at 1 April 2018.
IFRS 15 requires the Group to apportion revenue earned from contracts with customers to performance obligations the Group has with our customers, on the basis of the standalone selling prices.
This is done through applying a five-step model: 1.
Identify the contract with the customer.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligation in the contract.
Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies a performance obligation.
In addition to the changes to revenue recognition described above, IFRS 15 also provides guidance in relation to certain costs incurred acquiring a customer or fulfilling the contract with the customer, requiring such costs to be deferred over time.
The Group has run a project for the implementation of IFRS 15 assessing the impact to the Group, designing accounting policies and implementing necessary processes and systems.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 79 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies and basis of preparation continued Future accounting developments continued IFRS 15 continued The key effects of the application of IFRS 15 are described below: Revenue will continue to be recognised upfront in relation to hardware provided to the customer.
However whilst currently revenue is recognised only to the extent the customer contributes to this hardware, under IFRS 15 revenue will be allocated to the hardware based on the relative standalone selling prices of each of the performance obligations of the contract.
As the Group often provides hardware free or at a discounted price to customers this will result in more revenue being recognised at the commencement of a contract when the hardware is provided, and less being recognised over the remainder of the contract as the service is provided.
Connection revenues are currently recognised at the point the connection activity has been completed.
Under IFRS 15 such activities will typically not be a performance obligation and therefore the revenue will form part of the overall transaction price being allocated to each of the actual performance obligations of the contract based on their relative standalone prices.
Certain promotional discounts and credits are deferred and amortised over a defined period, however as these are not related to performance obligations, such credits and discounts will form part of the total transaction price and be allocated to each of the performance obligations.
Incremental sales commission costs directly attributable to obtaining specific contracts and currently recognised as incurred will instead be deferred and recognised over time.
Specific costs associates with fulfilling the customer contracts currently recognised on contract inception will instead be deferred and recognised over time.
The acceleration of revenue associated with hardware and the deferral of costs to obtain and fulfil will increase the net of assets of the Group, whilst the deferral of connection revenue will reduce net assets, We are in the process of finalising the impact to the Group of IFRS 15 including the opening adjustment to retained earnings.
We will provide a reconciliation of our primary financial statements under IAS 18 to our primary financial statements under IFRS 15 in our 2019 Annual Report.
IFRS 16 Leases, impacting lease recognition.
The Group will implement this standard for the year ended 31 March 2020, as the Group continues to monitor the practical interpretation of this new standard within the telecommunications industry.
Further detail of the requirements and management's current assessment ofthe implications for TalkTalk were disclosed within the 2017 Annual Report.
Segmental reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segmental information presented in the financial statements to be that used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate the performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified the Board as its CODM.
The Board considers the results of the business as a whole when assessing the performance of the business and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Group has one operating segment with all trading operations based in the United Kingdom.
2017 1 2018 restated m m Statutory revenue 1,708 1,783 Less MVNO revenue 50 63 Headline revenue 1,658 1,720 2017 1 2018 restated m m Headline EBITDA 233 361 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 69 67 Amortisation of operating intangibles 62 59 Share of results of joint ventures 11 11 Non-Headline items gross profit 12 17 Non-Headline items operating expenses excluding amortisation and depreciation note 9 109 131 Non-Headline items depreciation and amortisation 3 5 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 11 9 10 Statutory operating loss profit note 9 18 95 80 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 2.
Segmental reporting continued The Groups Headline revenue is split by On-net, Off-net and Corporate products as this information is provided to the Groups CODM.
2017 1 2018 restated m m On-net 1,263 1,279 Corporate 373 397 Off-net 22 44 Headline revenue 1,658 1,720 Less Carrier 72 121 Less Off-net 22 44 Headline revenue excluding Carrier and Off-net 1,564 1,555 1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has no material overseas operations and as a result, a split of revenue and total assets by geographical location has not been disclosed.
Corporate revenue is further analysed as: 2018 2017 m m Carrier 72 121 Data 168 157 Voice 133 119 Corporate revenue 373 397 3.
Operating loss profit Operating loss profit is stated after charging crediting : 2017 3 2018 restated m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 12 69 69 Amortisation of other operating intangible fixed assets note 11 62 59 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles note 11 9 10 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Impairment of operating intangibles 2 Gain on disposal of joint venture 1 Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables note 16 37 60 Employee costs note 4 152 136 Cost of inventories recognised in expenses 48 55 Rentals under operating leases 101 105 Supplier rebates 8 13 1 Service level related disputes 14 56 2 Auditors remuneration 1 1 Non-Headline items note 9 97 114 Non-Headline items depreciation note 9 and note 12 3 5 1 Included in operating profit are associated increased costs relating to these service level related disputes.
2 A breakdown of auditors remuneration is disclosed within the Corporate Governance section on page 41.
3 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Employee costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2018 2017 Number Number Administration 1,634 1,588 Sales and customer management 654 638 2,288 2,226 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 81 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Employee costs continued The aggregate remuneration recognised in respect of these employees in the income statement comprised: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 124 112 Social security costs 15 14 Other pension costs 5 5 144 131 Share-based payments note 5 8 5 152 136 The Group provides various defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of a significant number of its employees.
These are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
Compensation earned by key management personnel is analysed below.
The key management personnel comprised the Board of Directors see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 58 and other senior management.
2018 2017 m m Salaries and fees 4.9 4.0 Performance bonuses 1.4 1.5 Benefits 0.3 0.1 Pension costs 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 2.6 0.7 Notice payment 0.7 Compensation for loss of office 0.3 0.9 10.4 7.4 5.
Share-based payments Accounting policy The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees and Executive Directors.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a dividend discount or binomial model for share-based payments with internal, non-market performance criteria for example, EPS targets and a Black Scholes or Monte Carlo model for those with external performance criteria for example, TSRtargets.
For schemes with non-market performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
For schemes with market performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of leavers prior to vesting.
If a scheme is cancelled, any remaining part of the fair value of the scheme is expensed immediately.
If a scheme is forfeited, no further expense is recognised and any charges previously recognised are reversed.
Charges arise on loans that are provided to employees to fund the purchase of shares in the Group as part of long term incentive plans.
Tothe extent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable, the cost of such loans is expensed over the course of the relevant incentive plans.
Charges are also recognised on loans provided to employees to settle personal tax liabilities.
To the extent to whichthe loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable, the cost of such loans is expensed.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes are the Shareholder Value Plan SVP, Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP, Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Scheme and Share Match Plan SIP.
Where applicable, the ESOT holds shares to settle these plans, based on the latest view of vesting.
In order to aid the user of the financial statements, the dilutive effect on EPS of each scheme has been presented.
This has been calculated using an average share price for the financial year of 1.69 2017: 2.03.
82 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 5.
Share-based payments continued Summary of share schemes Options outstanding Dilutive at the end of IFRS 2 effect the year charge number number Year ended 31 March 2018 m millions millions TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes SVP participation shares 1 SVP II participation shares 3 SVP III participation shares 1 2 DSOP 2017 grant 2018 1 5 11 DSOP 2016 grant 2017 2 3 9 DSOP 2015 grant 2016 1 DSOP 2012 grant 2013 1 1 SAYE 5 Share Match Plan 1 1 Total TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes 8 12 27 Options outstanding Dilutive at the end of IFRS 2 effect the year charge number number Year ended 31 March 2017 m millions millions TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes SVP participation shares 1 SVP II participation shares 1 DSOP 2016 grant 2018 2 4 10 DSOP 2015 grant 2016 1 1 DSOP 2014 grant 2015 1 3 5 DSOP 2013 grant 2014 1 1 DSOP 2012 grant 2013 1 1 DSOP 2010 grant 2011 1 1 SAYE 3 Total TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC schemes 5 11 22 i SVP The SVP, SVP II and SVP III are growth plans and not share option plans operating under the Value Enhancement Scheme VES rules previously approved by shareholders.
The SVP and SVP II enable participants to share in up to 7% of any increase in the value of the Group over an opening market capitalisation of 2,941m based on a five business day average up to 3 June 2014 for SVP and 2,292m based on a five business day average up to 19 May 2016 for SVP II.
The awards are subject to the following performance conditions: at least a 7% compound annual increase CAGR in the market capitalisation of the Group from the above valuation over a three and four year period: and the Groups TSR outperforms the FTSE 250.
The SVP III scheme was awarded during the year ended 31 March 2018: the scheme enables participants to share in up to 7% of any increase in the value of the Group over an opening market capitalisation of 1,648m based on a five business day average up to 21 June 2017.
The award is subject to the following performance condition: at least a 7% compound annual increase CAGR in the market capitalisation of the Group from the above valuation over a three and four year period.
The performance conditions are measured over an initial performance period from 3 June 2014 SVP, 19 May 2016 SVP II and 21 June 2017 to the date of announcement of the Groups 2017 SVP, 2019 SVP II and 2020 SVP III annual results, after which a total of 60% of the options will vest.
The remaining options are measured over a performance period from 3 June 2014 SVP, 19 May 2016 SVP II and 21 June 2017 to the date of announcement of the Groups 2018 SVP, 2020 SVP II and 2021 SVP III annual results.
The pool also has a maximum cap on incremental value equal to 2.75% of the total issued share capital of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC at the date of each vesting.
There is a holding period on 100% of the PLC shares received in exchange for participation shares on vesting, of twelve months from each vesting date for Executive Directors.
All other participants are required to hold 50% of the PLC shares received in exchange for participation shares on vesting for twelve months from each vesting date.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 83 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Share-based payments continued Summary of share schemes continued i SVP continued The Group advanced loans to participants to enable them to purchase participation shares in TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company of the Groups operating business.
These loans are subject to a commercial rate of interest based on rates set by HMRC.
If an employee leaves the Group before the scheme vests, then the participation shares are forfeited for the value of the outstanding loan plus accrued interest.
During the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group reviewed all of its existing long term incentive plans, including the SVP II, to ensure they are in line with the revised business strategy.
It subsequently decided SVP II awarded in 2016, having being set under our old strategy, will not meet the purposes for which those awards were originally granted and cancelled the award.
The cancellation of awards gave rise to an exceptional charge of 3m.
A fair value exercise was conducted for the awards using the Monte Carlo method with the total fair value of the participation shares granted totalling 5m in SVP, 4m in SVP II and 5m in SVP III.
A summary of the schemes is shown below: Participation shares 2018 2017 Number Number SVP 2015 grant million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 15 17 Forfeited during the year 4 2 Outstanding at the end of the year 11 15 Exercisable at the end of the year Participation shares 2018 2017 Number Number SVP II 2016 grant million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 18 Granted during the year 20 Cancelled during the year 12 Forfeited during the year 6 2 Outstanding at the end of the year 18 Exercisable at the end of the year Participation shares 2018 2017 Number Number SVP III 2017 grant million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 14 Forfeited during the year 1 Outstanding at the end of the year 13 Exercisable at the end of the year ii DSOP During the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group granted 12 million nil-priced share options 2017 grant.
These options are subject to the following performance condition: at least a 7% compound annual increase CAGR in the market capitalisation of the Group from the below valuation over the next three and four year periods.
The options are measured as follows: a performance period from 21 June 2017 to 21 June 2020 vesting on announcement of the Groups 2020 annual results.
A total of 60% of the vested options are exercisable from the vesting date, with the remaining 40% of options being exercisable twelve months later.
Options are forfeited if an employee leaves the Group before the options vest, subject to the DSOP scheme rules.
84 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 5.
Share-based payments continued Summary of share schemes continued ii DSOP continued In 2017 2016 grant, the Group granted 11 million nil-priced share options.
These options are subject to the following performance conditions: at least a 7% compound annual increase CAGR in the market capitalisation of the Group from the below valuation over the next three and four year periods: and at least a 23.8% compound annual increase CAGR in the Headline earnings per share EPS of the Group from the 2016 Headline EPS: andthe employee remains in service with the Group for the vesting periods.
The options are measured as follows: a performance period from 19 May 2016 to 19 May 2019 vesting on announcement of the Groups 2020 annual results.
A total of 60% ofthevested options are exercisable from the vesting date, with the remaining 40% of options being exercisable twelve months later.
In 2015 2014 grant and 2016 2015 grant, the Group granted eight million nil-priced share option awards and two million nil-priced share option awards respectively.
These awards are subject to the following performance conditions: at least a 7% compound annual increase CAGR in the market capitalisation of the Group from the below valuation over the next three and four year periods: and the Groups TSR outperforms the FTSE 250.
The options are measured as follows: 2014 grant: a performance period from 3 June 2014 to 3 June 2017 vesting on announcement of the Groups 2017 annual results.
2015 grant: a performance period from 11 September 2015 to 11 September 2018 vesting on 11 September 2018.
The vested options are only exercisable twelve months following the vesting date.
On the announcement of the Groups 2017 annual results it was determined the 2014 grant did not meet the necessary performance conditions and subsequently all remaining options under the scheme lapsed on this date.
Options are forfeited if an employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
The following table summarises the number of options, WAEP and valuation assumptions of each grant.
2017 grant 2016 grant 2015 grant 2014 grant 2013 grant 2012 grant 2010 grant Number of share options Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP Number WAEP outstanding million million million million million million million Opening balance at 1April 2016 2 7 4 2 2 1.27 Granted during the year 11 Exercised during the year 1 1 1.27 Forfeited during the year 1 1 2 3 Closing balance at 31March 2017 10 1 5 1 1 1 1.27 Granted during the year 12 Exercised during the year 1 1 1.27 Lapsed during the year 5 Forfeited during the year 1 1 Closing balance at 31March 2018 11 9 1 1 Number of share options exercisable As at 31 March 2017 1 1 1.27 As at 31 March 2018 1 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 85 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Share-based payments continued Summary of share schemes continued ii DSOP continued Valuation assumptions 2017 grant 2016 grant 2015 grant 2014 grant 2013 grant 2012 grant 2010 grant Valuation method Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Share price p 174 240 309 321 228 122 132 Exercise price p nil nil nil nil nil nil 127 Expected volatility 31.95% and 28.75% 25.0% 25.0% 30.0% 30.0% 37.0% 30.94% Expected exercise 60% 40% 3 and 4 years 3 and 4 years 4 years 3 and 4 years 3 and 4 years 3 and 4 years 3 and 4 years Risk free rate 0.24% and 0.44% and 1.67% 1.27% and 0.50% and 0.60% 3.40% 3 years 4 years 0.39% 0.64% 1.67% 0.80% Expected dividend yield 4.73% 5.65% 5.60% 5.60% 4.45% 3.50% 3.80% Fair value of options granted m 5 10 1 4 3 3 9 Weighted average remainingcontractual life 9.3 years 8.1 years 7.4 years N A N A 3.9 years N A Part of the 2016 grant was valued using the Black Scholes model, the valuation assumptions for these are shown below: DSOP 2016 grant Valuation method Black Scholes Share price p 240 Exercise price p nil Expected volatility N A Expected exercise years 3 and 4 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividend yield 5.65% Fair value of options granted m 9 Weighted average remaining contractual life 9.1 years iii SAYE The scheme permits the granting of options to employees linked to a bank SAYE contract for a term of three or five years.
Contributions from UK employees range from 5 to 250 per month for schemes launched between 2010 and 2013 and between 5 and 500 per month for the 2014 scheme onwards.
Options may be exercised at the end of the three or five year period at an exercise price determined at the invitation date.
The scheme is available for a period each year for employees to join.
Exercise prices for the schemes are set out below: 2017 grant 145p per share 2016 grant 209p per share 2015 grant 307p per share 2014 grant 240p per share 2013 grant 192p per share 2012 grant 123p per share 2011 grant 119p per share 2010 grant 102p per share 2018 2017 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3 2.26 4 2.32 Granted during the year 4 1.45 2 2.09 Exercised during the year 1 1.88 Forfeited during the year 2 1.94 2 2.37 Outstanding at the end of the year 5 1.74 3 2.28 Exercisable at the end of the year 86 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 5.
Share-based payments continued Summary of share schemes continued iv Share Match Plan SAYE 2017 grant Valuation method Black Scholes Share price p 1.81 Exercise price p 1.45 Expected volatility 26% Expected exercise years 3.6 Risk free rate 0.29% Expected dividend yield 4.24% Fair value of options granted m 1 Weighted average remaining contractual life 3.1 years The Group launched its first all-employee, HMRC-approved Share Match Plan SIP in June 2014, following the Remuneration Committee approval of this scheme in the year ended 31 March 2014.
This enables eligible employees to purchase market priced shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares in trust for up to a five year period.
The rules of the Plan allow an employee maximum contribution of 1,800 per annum, or in line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
Approval for the TTG Share Match was granted by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2013.
The Remuneration Committee, at its discretion, may award matching and or free shares to eligible participants.
Matching shares may be granted up to a maximum ratio of two matching shares for each partnership share purchased by a participant.
Free shares may be awarded up to a maximum value of 3,600 tax free per annum, or in line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
Currently the Group provides one matching share for each partnership share purchased by participating employees or Executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the impact of the SIP on the Groups results was not material.
Net finance costs Net finance costs are analysed as follows: 2017 2018 restated m m Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 36 20 Facility fees and similar charges 9 5 Finance costs before exceptional items 45 25 Exceptional finance expense note 9 10 Finance costs 55 25 In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group completed the repurchase of its $185m US Private Placement Notes.
This resulted in exceptional costs of 8m 2017: nil including the settlement of derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships and associated fees.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group also refinanced its revolving credit facilities RCF, resulting in the accelerated amortisation of arrangement fees from the previous facilities leading to a 2m 2017: nil exceptional charge in the year.
In addition, arrangement fees of 5m were paid during the year and are being amortised over the life of the RCF.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group issued 400m Senior Notes repayable in 2022.
Arrangement fees of 5m were paid and are being amortised over the life of the Notes.
Upon receipt of the proceeds the Group repaid 50m of its term loan and the 2016 100m RCF infull, accelerating the amortisation of the fees relating to this facility.
The average interest rate in the year was 4.60% 2017: 3.60%.
Taxation Accounting policy Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets represent tax recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax losses and credits.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an item recognised directly in reserves, in which case it is recognised directly in reserves.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 87 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation continued Tax income statement The tax charge comprises: 2018 2017 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 5 Adjustments in respect of prior years: 5 Total current tax credit charge 5 5 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of timing differences 10 9 Effect from write off of deferred tax losses 15 Effect of change in tax rate 4 7 Adjustments in respect of prior years deferred tax charge credit 2 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years exceptional credit 8 Total deferred tax charge 11 7 Total tax charge 6 12 The tax charge on Headline earnings for the year ended 31 March 2018 was 28m 2017: 45m, representing an effective tax rate on pre-tax profits of 61% 2017: 23%.
The tax charge on Statutory earnings for the year ended 31 March 2018 was 6m 2017: 12m.
The reconciliation between the Headline and Statutory tax charge is shown in note 9.
The principal differences between the tax charge and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 19% 2017: 20% to the loss profit before taxation are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Loss profit before taxation 73 70 Tax at 19% 2017: 20% 14 14 Items attracting no tax relief or liability 2 Effect of change in tax rate 4 7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years exceptional credit 8 Movement in recognised tax losses during the year 17 Total tax charge through income statement 6 12 Tax retained earnings and other reserves Tax on items recognised directly in retained earnings and other reserves is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Total tax charge through income statement 6 12 Total tax charge through retained earnings and other reserves 6 12 Tax balance sheet The deferred tax assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year are as follows: Timing differences on Share-based capitalised Tax Other timing payments costs losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 April 2017 3 42 60 3 108 Charge credit to the income statement 1 17 5 11 At 31 March 2018 3 43 43 8 97 Timing differences on Share-based capitalised Tax Other timing payments costs losses differences Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 3 53 56 3 115 Charge credit to the income statement 11 4 7 At 31 March 2017 3 42 60 3 108 88 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 7.
Taxation continued Tax balance sheet continued No deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in either year, except where there is a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
At 31 March 2018, the Group had unused tax losses of 527m 2017: 606m available for offset against future taxable profits.
A deferred tax asset of 43m 2017: 60m has been recognised in respect of 254m 2017: 339m of such losses, based on expectations of recovery in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 273m 2017: 267m of losses as there is insufficient evidence that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these losses can be recovered.
All losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Dividends Accounting policy Dividend income is recognised when payment has been received.
Final dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by the relevant shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
The following dividends were paid by the Group to its shareholders: 2018 2017 m m Ordinary dividends Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 10.58p per ordinary share 100 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 5.29p per ordinary share 50 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 5.00p per ordinary share 47 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 2.50p per ordinary share 24 Total ordinary dividends 71 150 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 1.50p per ordinary share on 1,142 million ordinary shares approximately 17m was approved by the Board on 24 May 2018 and will be recommended to shareholders at the AGM on 18 July 2018.
Thedividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 March 2018.
The payment of this dividendwill not have any tax consequences for theGroup.
The Group ESOT has waived its rights to receive dividends in the current and prior year and this is reflected in the analysis above.
Reconciliation of Headline information to Statutory information Headline information is provided because the Directors consider that it provides assistance in understanding the Groups underlying performance.
Further detail in relation to APMs are contained within note 1.
Accounting policy non-Headline items As explained within note 1, during the year the Group has refined its policy in relation to non-Headline items.
Headline measures represent trading results before non-Headline items.
The Directors believe that presentation of the Group results in this way is relevant to an understanding of our financial performance, as non-Headline items are identified by virtue of their size, nature and or incidence.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management, reported to the Board, the basis of financial measures forsenior managements compensation schemes and assists in providing supplementary information that assists the user to understand better the financial performance, position and trends of the Group.
In determining whether an event or transaction is non-Headline, the Board considers both quantitative and qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
During the periods under review, the non-Headline items excluded from operating profit in arriving at Headline operating profit were amortisation on acquisition intangibles, the operating results of a business to be exited MVNO operating loss and exceptional items.
Examples of charges or credits meeting the definition of exceptional items include, where material, discontinued operations, gains or losses associated with the acquisition disposal exit of businesses, business restructuring and fundamental transformation programmes.
Certain transformation and rationalisation programmes are so fundamental they may impact a number of years.
In the event that other items meet the criteria, which are applied consistently from year to year, they are also treated as exceptional items.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 89 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Reconciliation of Headline information to Statutory information continued Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policy The classification of items as non-Headline is subjective in nature and therefore judgement is required to determine whether the item isinline with the accounting policies outlined above.
Determining whether an item is non-Headline is a matter of qualitative assessment.
Thefollowing table includes details of non-Headline items: Gross Operating Loss before Loss for Revenue profit EBITDA loss taxation Taxation the year Year ended 31 March 2018 m m m m m m m Headline results 1,658 884 233 91 46 28 18 Exceptional items Operating efficiencies MTTS a 3 4 4 4 Exceptional items Operating efficiencies property b 12 12 12 2 10 Exceptional items Network transformation c 17 19 19 4 15 Exceptional items Mobile proposition d 33 33 33 6 27 MVNO operating loss e 50 12 13 13 13 2 11 Exceptional items Business reorganisation f 19 19 19 4 15 Exceptional items Finance expense g 10 2 8 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles k 9 9 2 7 Statutory results 1,708 896 136 18 73 6 79 Gross Operating Profit before Profit for Revenue profit EBITDA profit taxation Taxation the year 1 Year ended 31 March 2017 restated m m m m m m m Headline results 1,720 953 361 224 199 45 154 Exceptional items  MTTS a 24 24 24 5 19 Exceptional items Operating efficiencies property b 8 8 8 2 6 Exceptional items  c 8 11 11 2 9 Exceptional items Mobileproposition d 49 49 49 10 39 MVNO operating loss e 63 17 28 30 30 5 25 Exceptional items Acquisitions and disposals i 1 1 1 1 Exceptional items Operating expenses cyber attack j 2 2 2 1 1 Exceptional items Taxation items h 8 8 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles k 10 10 2 8 Statutory results 1,783 970 247 95 70 12 58 1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, cash exceptional items were 60m 2017: 45m.
The above table shows how all APMs are reconciled to Statutory performance measures with the exception ofHeadline earnings per share note 10 and net debt.
90 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 9.
Reconciliation of Headline information to Statutory information continued Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policy continued Net debt of the Group comprises: 2018 2017 m m 1 Headline net debt 724 782 Finance leases 31 Net debt 755 782 1 Represents all drawn amounts on Senior Notes and bank borrowing facilities offset by cash and cash equivalents.
a Operating efficiencies Making TalkTalk Simpler MTTS During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group completed its wide-ranging transformation programme that is delivering material improvements to our customers experience, driving operating cost savings, and reducing SAC through lower churn and costs per add.
The wide-ranging transformation programme was considered so fundamental that it impacted a number of years with the costs incurred in the year relating to the finalisation of improving Consumer and TalkTalk Business systems and processes which focus on customer experience.
These programmes have resulted in 4m 2017: 24m of costs including project management, redundancy, consultancy, migration, call centre costs and accelerated depreciation costs.
A total taxation credit of 5m has been recognised on these costs in the year ended 31 March 2017. b Operating efficiencies fundamental property rationalisation The Group has fundamentally rationalised the sites from which it operates including the relocation of its Warrington and Irlam sites to one site at the Soapworks in Salford together with the rationalisation of our London property footprint.
The revised estimated cost of this property rationalisation programme has been provided for during the year and has given rise to additional costs of 12m 2017: 8m.
A total taxation credit of 2m has been recognised on these costs in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 2m.
c Network transformation During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group embarked on a significant multi-year transformation programme which will fundamentally restructure the Groups network, IT infrastructure and technology organisation.
The change the Group is undertaking will ensure it is fit for the future and underpins the wider Group strategy in providing a great service to our customers as a value provider in the industry.
This is a discrete project expected to run until 2021.
This programme has resulted in 19m 2017: 11m of costs including project management, consultancy, dual running costs, decommissioning costs and accelerated depreciation costs.
A total taxation credit of 4m has been recognised on these costs in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 2m.
d Mobile proposition Following the Groups announcement in May 2017 to reassess the Groups mobile strategy net exceptional costs have been incurred in relation to decommissioning costs, asset write offs, provision releases, onerous supplier commitments and redundancies amounting to 33m 2017: 49m.
A total taxation credit of 6m has been recognised on these costs in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 10m.
e MVNO operating loss Following the Groups announcement in May 2017 to reassess the Groups mobile strategy, the Group is now progressing with its alternative mobile distribution strategy.
Operating losses of 13m 2017: 30m associated with the MVNO strategy have been incurred: given this one-off strategic decision, management considers these material losses are non-Headline items though they do not meet the criteria under IFRS5 for separate disclosure as discontinued operations.
The MVNO trading activity will continue to reduce as contractual commitments expire, with the expectation that a loss will arise in 2019.
A taxation credit of 2m has been recognised on these costs 2017: 5m.
f Business reorganisation Net costs of 19m 2017: nil have been incurred associated with implementing changes to the Groups organisational structure following the Group reorganising the business under the new leadership team.
The costs include redundancy, other rationalisation costs and consultancy costs.
The Group expects the finalisation of this fundamental reorganisation within 2019.
A taxation credit of 4m has been recognised on these costs 2017: nil.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 91 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Reconciliation of Headline information to Statutory information continued Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policy continued g Finance expense During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group completed the repurchase of its $185m US Private Placement Notes.
This resulted in incremental costs of 8m 2017: nil relating to the settlement of derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships andassociated fees.
The Group also refinanced its revolving credit facilities, resulting in the accelerated amortisation of arrangement feesrelating to the previous facilities leading to a 2m 2017: nil charge in the period.
A total taxation credit of 2m has been recognised on these items in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: nil.
h Taxation items During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group resolved a longstanding enquiry with HMRC in relation to the tax treatment of 85m of losses in respect ofTalkTalk Brands Limited.
This resulted in a tax credit of 8m.
i Acquisitions and disposals During the year ended 31 March 2017, final migrations of prior year customer base acquisitions were completed.
Following completion any amounts provided for but not utilised were released resulting in a credit of 1m.
The tax impact was immaterial.
j Cyber attack During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group received insurance proceeds of 3m in relation to specific cyber related costs incurred in the prior year: these were offset by 1m of costs incurred in the prior year.
A total taxation charge of 1m was recognised on these items in the year ended 31 March 2017. k Amortisation of acquisition intangibles An amortisation charge in respect of acquisition intangibles of 9m was incurred in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017: 10m.
A total taxation credit of 2m 2017: 2m has been recognised in relation to the charge in the year ended 31 March 2018.
Loss earnings per ordinary share Loss earnings per ordinary share are shown on a Headline and Statutory basis to assist in the understanding of the performance of the Group.
2017 1 2018 restated m m Headline earnings note 9 18 154 Statutory loss earnings 79 58 Weighted average number of shares millions Shares in issue 979 955 Less weighted average holdings by Group ESOT 4 7 For basic EPS 975 948 Dilutive effect of share options note 5 12 11 For diluted EPS 987 959 2018 2017 Pence Pence Basic earnings per ordinary share Headline 1.8 16.2 Statutory 8.1 6.1 2018 2017 Pence Pence Diluted earnings per ordinary share Headline 1.8 16.1 Statutory 8.0 6.0 1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
92 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets a Goodwill Accounting policy Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is recognised initially as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the relevant goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Group has two cash generating units CGUs which have allocated goodwill TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business, which represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Cash inflows generated by the TalkTalk Consumer CGU represent income generated from the provision of telecommunication services to Retail customers.
Cash inflows generated by the TalkTalk Business CGU represent income generated from the provision of telecommunication services to B2Bcustomers.
For the purpose of impairment testing, at the acquisition date, goodwill is allocated to each of the CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
The Groups shared costs and assets relating mainly to infrastructure and central overheads are allocated across the two CGUs based on the relative future cash flows that those shared costs support.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Inassessing value in use, the estimated cash flows of each CGU are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cashflows have not been adjusted.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired: this review is performed at a CGU level.
Impairment is determined by assessing the future cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill relates.
The future cash flows of the Group aretaken from the Groups three year plan and extrapolated out to 20 years based on the UKs long term growth rate.
This is discounted bythe CGUs weighted average cost of capital pre-tax to give the net present value of that CGU.
Where the net present value of future cash flows is less than the carrying value of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Sensitivity analysis is performed using reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions.
2018 2017 m m Opening, closing cost and net book value 495 495 The goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated at acquisition to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group has two CGUs which have allocated goodwill: 2018 2017 m m TalkTalk Consumer 347 347 TalkTalk Business 148 148 495 495 Impairment review The key assumptions used in the Groups goodwill impairment review are as follows: Long term growth rates Long term revenue growth rates applied are based on the growth rate for the UK per the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD.
The rate applied in the current year was 1.7% 2017: 2.0%.
Discount rate The underlying discount rate for each CGU is based on the UK ten year gilt rate adjusted for an equity risk premium and the systematic risk of the CGU.
The average pre-tax rate for both CGUs used to discount the forecast cash flows is 7.8% 2017: 8.0%.
The assumptions used in the calculation of the CGUs discount rate are benchmarked to externally available data.
The same discount rate has been applied to both CGUs due to the similarity of risk factors and geographical location.
Capital expenditure Forecast capital expenditure to maintain property, plant and equipment is based on senior management expectations of future required support of the network and current run rate of expenditure, typically at 67% of revenue.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 93 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued a Goodwill continued Impairment review continued Customer factors The key assumptions for the forecast cash flows of each of the CGUs are based on expected customer growth rates, ARPU, direct costs including acquisition costs, and changes in product mix.
The value assigned to each of these assumptions has been determined based onthe extrapolation of historical trends in the Group and external information on expected trends of future market developments.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption and the Directors have not identified any reasonably possible changes inthe key assumptions that would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.
b Other intangible assets Accounting policy Operating intangibles Operating intangibles include internal infrastructure and design costs incurred in the development of software for internal use.
Internally generated software is recognised as an intangible asset only if it can be separately identified, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits, and the development cost can be measured reliably.
Where these conditions are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised include employee costs specifically incurred in the development of the intangible asset.
Operating intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives of up to eight years.
Acquisition intangibles Acquired intangible assets such as customer bases and other intangible assets acquired through a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill and amortised over their expected useful lives of up to six years on a straight-line basis.
The value attributed to such assets is based on the future economic benefit that is expected to be derived from them, calculated as the present value of future cashflows after a deduction for contributory assets.
Impairment At the acquisition date, acquisition intangibles are allocated to each of the CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
The Groups shared costs and assets relating mainly to infrastructure and central overheads are allocated across the two CGUs based on the relative future cash flows.
Determining whether the carrying amounts of operating and acquisition intangibles have any indication of impairment requires judgement.
Ifan indication of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether the carrying amounts can be supported by the value in use of the CGU that the asset is allocated to.
The value in use calculation involves estimation of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the selection of appropriate discount rates to calculate present values.
Useful economic lives The assessment of the useful economic lives of these operating and acquisition intangibles requires judgement.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement based on the useful economic life selected.
This assessment requires estimation of the period over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
Impairment of assets The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have sufferedan impairment loss at each reporting date.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of theassets recoverable amount and the extent of any impairment loss.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than the carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
94 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets continued Impairment of assets continued Other intangible assets are analysed as follows: Operating Acquisition Total other intangibles intangibles intangibles m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2017 219 24 243 Additions 86 1 87 Amortisation 62 9 71 Impairment 2 2 Closing balance at 31 March 2018 241 16 257 Cost gross carrying amount 629 143 772 Accumulated amortisation 388 127 515 Closing balance at 31 March 2018 241 16 257 Operating Acquisition Total other intangibles intangibles intangibles m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2016 193 34 227 Additions 85 85 Amortisation 59 10 69 Closing balance at 31 March 2017 219 24 243 Cost gross carrying amount 543 142 685 Accumulated amortisation 324 118 442 Closing balance at 31 March 2017 219 24 243 Operating intangibles Operating intangibles includes internally generated assets with a net book value of 106m 2017: 102m, which are amortised over a period of up to eight years.
This includes additions of 28m 2017: 32m and an amortisation charge of 24m 2017: 18m in the year ended 31March 2018.
Acquisition intangibles Acquisition intangibles relate to the broadband customer bases acquired from Virgin Media and Tesco in a prior year: these customer bases were valued from the discounted future cash flows expected from them, after a deduction for contributory assets.
At 31 March 2018, the net book value of the acquired broadband bases is material to the Group, with the Virgin Media base valued at 8m 2017: 12m and the Tesco base valued at 8m 2017: 12m, with remaining useful economic lives of 22 months 2017: 34 months and 23months 2017: 35 months respectively.
Property, plant and equipment Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life from the date it is brought into use, as follows: Short leasehold improvements 10% or the lease term if less than ten years Land and buildings 3.33% per annum Network equipment and computer hardware 12.550% per annum Fixtures and fittings 2025% per annum Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets.
However, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end of the lease term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 95 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its fixed assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss at each reporting date.
The Group uses the same methodology as set out in note 11 for operating and acquisition intangibles.
Network Short equipment and leasehold computer Fixtures improvements hardware and fittings Total m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2017 1 228 6 235 Additions 1 70 2 73 Acquired from Business Combinations 10 10 Depreciation 67 2 69 Assets transferred to assets classified as held for sale 10 10 Accelerated depreciation note 9 3 3 Closing balance at 31 March 2018 2 228 6 236 Cost gross carrying amount 8 911 10 929 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges 6 683 4 693 Closing balance at 31 March 2018 2 228 6 236 Network Short equipment and leasehold Land and computer Fixtures improvements buildings hardware and fittings Total m m m m m Opening balance at 1 April 2016 7 294 1 302 Additions 2 35 6 43 Depreciation 71 1 72 Disposals 8 8 16 Impairment note 9 22 22 Reclassification 1 1 Closing balance at 31 March 2017 1 228 6 235 Cost gross carrying amount 7 841 8 856 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges 6 613 2 621 Closing balance at 31 March 2017 1 228 6 235 13.
Non-current asset investments Accounting policy Investments, other than subsidiaries, are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given plus any transaction costs associated with the acquisition.
Investments are categorised as available for sale and are recorded at fair value.
Changes in fair value, together with any related taxation, are taken directly to equity and recycled to the income statement when the investment is sold or determined to be impaired.
Non-current asset investments at 31 March 2018 related to a 7.3% 2017: 7.3% interest in Shared Band Limited, a telecommunications technology provider.
The cost of the investment is not material.
96 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 13.
Non-current asset investments continued Accounting policy continued a Investments The Parent Company has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings, which affected the profits or losses or net assets of the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage of Subsidiary undertakings or registration Registered office Principal activity shareholding 1 2 TalkTalk Telecom Holdings Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Holding company 100 3 Beheer-en  Antika BV Netherlands Euroweg Non-trading 100 3 Wireless Internet Portfolio BV Netherlands Euroweg Non-trading 100 2 TalkTalk Brands Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 TalkTalk Group Ltd England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Holding company 100 2 CPW Broadband Services UK Ltd England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 Future Office Communications Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 4 TalkTalk Broadband Services Ireland Limited Ireland 39 40 Upper Mount Street Non-trading 100 2 TalkTalk Business 2CCH Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 TalkTalk Communications Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 CPW Network Services Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 TalkTalk Corporate Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Holding company 100 2 Core Telecommunications Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Non-trading 100 2 CPW UK Group Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 TalkTalk RB Limited formerly Ratebuster Ltd England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 TalkTalk Technology Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 5 Telequip Limited England & Wales 348350 Lytham Road In liquidation 100 2 Telco Global Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Vartec Telecom Europe Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Video Networks Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 World Online Telecom Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 GIS Telecoms Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 TalkTalk Direct Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Opal Connect Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Opal Business Solutions Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 UK Telco GB Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 TalkTalk UK Communications Services Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Onetel Telecommunications Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 V Networks Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Green Dot Property Management Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Non-trading 100 2 Executel Ltd England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Greystone Telecom Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Pipex Internet Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Pipex Communications Services Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 Pipex UK Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 2 TalkTalk Telecom Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 Telco Holdings Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 Telco Global Distribution Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Dormant 100 4 Tele2 Telecommunication Services Limited Ireland 39 40 Upper Mount Street Non-trading 100 2 England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 Tiscali UK Limited 4 Toucan Residential Ireland Limited Ireland 39 40 Upper Mount Street Non-trading 100 2 TalkTalk TV Entertainment Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 2 tIPicall Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 6 Bolt Pro Tem Limited England & Wales 15 Bedford Street Telecommunications 67 7 8 Nottingdale Receivables Limited England & Wales 6 St Andrew Street Receivables financing 2 Adventure Telecom Limited England & Wales 11 Evesham Street Telecommunications 100 1 Directly held subsidiary.
2 Full address: 11 Evesham Street, London, W11 4AR.
3 Full address: Euroweg 20 3825 HD Amersfoort, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
4 Full address: 39 40 Upper Mount Street, Dublin 2, Ireland.
5 Full address: 348350 Lytham Road, Blackpool, Lancashire, FY4 1DW.
6 Full address: 15 Bedford Street, London, WC2E 9HE.
7 Consolidated on the grounds of substance see note 18.
8 Full address: 5th floor, 6 St Andrew Street, London, EC4A 3AE.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 97 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Non-current asset investments continued Accounting policy continued a Investments continued Country of incorporation Percentage of Joint venture undertakings or registration Registered office Principal activity shareholding YouView TV Limited England & Wales 10 Lower Thames Street Telecommunications 14.3 2 Internet Matters Limited England & Wales 6th Floor, One London Wall Telecommunications 25.0 1 Full address: 10 Lower Thames Street, Third Floor, London, EC3R 6YT.
2 Full address: 6th Floor One, London Wall, London, EC2Y 5EB.
b Acquisitions and disposals i Acquisitions As described in note 14, on 20 December 2017, the Group purchased a further 33.3% interest in Bolt Pro Tem Limited BPT for 1m, a joint venture in which it already held a 33.3% interest.
Following this acquisition, the Group owned 67% and therefore a controlling interest in the company.
As a result, the Group has recognised 2m of provisional goodwill on acquisition and consolidated the assets and liabilities of BPT from the date of acquisition.
The impact of the acquisition to the Groups income statement is immaterial.
On 7 February 2018, the Group announced that it had agreed terms with Infracapital, the infrastructure equity investment arm of M&G Prudential, to provide FTTP to more than three million homes and businesses in the UK.
The parties intend tocreate a company, with Infracapital funding 80% and TalkTalk 20%, with total potential equity investment of up to 500m over themedium term.
TalkTalk would also be a founding wholesale customer of the new company, providing a minimum volume commitment.
This venture was building on the success of BPT, which would be sold into the new venture.
As a result, the assets and liabilities of BPT havebeendetermined as qualifying as assets held for sale under IFRS 5 and disclosed as such within the consolidated balance sheet.
The major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets 12 1 Current assets 1 Total assets classified as held for sale 13 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale Current payables 11 Total liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 11 1 The cash balance acquired was immaterial.
ii Disposals The Group has made no disposal of investments during the current or prior year.
Investment in joint ventures Accounting policy Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The Group consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of the post-tax profits or losses of the joint ventures based on their financial statements for the year.
In the Group consolidated balance sheet, the Groups interest in joint ventures is shown as a non-current asset, representing the Groups investment inthe share capital of the joint ventures, as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets or liabilities less provision for any impairment.
In addition to the carrying amount of the investment, the Groups interest in joint ventures includes, where applicable, any long term interests in the venture that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the joint venture.
An item for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, an extension of the Groups interest in that joint venture.
Any loans advanced to a joint venture that, in substance, do not form part of the Groups net investment are shown separately in the balance sheet as a receivable to the Group.
Losses recognised using the equity method in excess of the Groups investment in ordinary shares are applied to the other components of the Groups interest in the joint venture in the reverse order of their seniority i. e. priority in liquidation.
98 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 14.
Investment in joint ventures continued Accounting policy continued YouView TV Limited YouView The Group holds 14.3% 2017: 14.3% of the ordinary share capital of YouView, a joint venture with The British Broadcasting Corporation, ITVBroadcasting Limited, British Telecom PLC BT, Channel Four Television Corporation, Arqiva Limited and Channel 5 Broadcasting Limited.
The joint venture was set up in order to develop a free-to-air internet-connected TV service to UK homes.
During a prior year, theGroup signed a new agreement with the other existing holders of YouView whereby all seven original partners together Tier 1 funders continue to contribute approximately 1m per annum to fund basic operational and technology costs of YouView, and the Group together with BT as Tier 2 funders contribute up to a further 10m per annum for additional development of the technology to support their TVpropositions.
The Groups total contribution to YouView in the year ended 31 March 2018 was 6m 2017: 10m.
There was no change in the overall control of the joint venture as a result of these changes as all seven partners share overall control.
Underthis agreement, the Groups share of losses comprises one-seventh of any Tier 1 loss and half of any Tier 2 loss.
During the year ended31 March 2018, the Group recognised an 11m share of losses 2017: 11m.
The Group has reviewed the carrying value of YouView and has concluded that there is no indication of impairment.
Bolt Pro Tem Limited At 31 March 2017, the Group held 33.3% of the ordinary share capital of Bolt Pro Tem Limited BPT, a joint venture with British Sky Broadcasting Limited BSkyB and City Fibre Holdings Limited.
The joint venture was set up to deliver Fibre To The Premise FTTP broadband services inthe City of York.
On 20 December 2017, the Group purchased an additional 33.3% of BPT for consideration of 1m and therefore held acontrolling interest in BPT.
As such the Group began accounting for BPT as a subsidiary under IFRS 3 note 13.
During the period to 20December 2017, the Group contributed nil 2017: nil to the joint venture and received nil share of losses 2017: nil.
In addition, italsolent a further 1m increasing the overall loan balance to 5m 2017: 4m.
Internet Matters Limited During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group, alongside BSkyB, BT and Virgin Media, established an equal membership joint venture, Internet Matters Limited.
It is a not-for-profit company set up as an industry-led body to promote and educate parents about internet safety for children.
Interest in joint ventures is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening balance at 1 April 8 9 Additions 6 10 Share of results 11 11 Gain on disposal on step up acquisition 1 Movement to subsidiary 1 Closing balance at 31 March 3 8 The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of its joint ventures are as follows: 2018 2017 Group share of results of joint ventures m m Expenses 11 11 Loss before taxation 11 11 Taxation Loss after taxation 11 11 2018 2017 Group share of net assets of joint ventures m m Non-current assets 3 8 Net assets 3 8 15.
Inventories Accounting policy Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, valued on a FIFO basis, and consists primarily of set top boxes, power line adaptors and routers.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less costs expected to be incurred.
A provision is made for obsolete items where appropriate.
2018 2017 m m Goods for resale 35 18 During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group revised its strategy toward its mobile proposition giving rise to an impairment of 18m.
Theimpairment was recognised as an exceptional item note 9.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 99 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables comprise: 2018 2017 m m Non-current trade and other receivables Other receivables 7 6 Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables gross 171 192 Less provision for impairment 33 45 Trade receivables net 138 147 Other receivables 146 136 Prepayments 31 32 Accrued income 41 54 Total current trade and other receivables 356 369 Total trade and other receivables 363 375 The Directors estimate that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken on trade receivables, calculated by reference to the amount owed at the year end as a proportion of total revenue in the year, was 31 days 2017: 33 days.
As explained in note 18, in September 2016, the Group signed a 75m receivables purchase agreement which matures in September 2018 ofwhich 67m is drawn as at 31 March 2018 2017: 58m.
The Group has the ability on a rolling basis to sell its trade receivables to a third party vehicle in exchange for a discounted consideration.
TheGroup varies the level of trade receivables sold into the programme as part of managing its liquidity position.
The Group is deemed to control the third party vehicle and therefore continues to consolidate the relevant trade receivables on the grounds that substantially not allthe risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred under the programme.
The Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 m m UK Sterling 162 181 Other 9 11 171 192 The ageing of gross trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not yet due 72 85 0 to 2 months 16 15 2 to 4 months 14 17 Over 4 months 69 75 171 192 The ageing of the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Not yet due 0 to 2 months 3 2 2 to 4 months 2 Over 4 months 30 41 33 45 100 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 16.
Trade and other receivables continued Movements in the provisions for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening balance 45 30 Charged to the income statement 37 60 Receivables written off as irrecoverable 49 45 Closing balance 33 45 Trade receivables of 66m 2017: 62m were past due, but not impaired.
These balances primarily relate to TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business fixed line customers.
The Group has made provisions based on historical rates of recoverability and all unprovided amounts are considered to be recoverable.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m 0 to 2 months 13 13 2 to 4 months 14 15 Over 4 months 39 34 66 62 17.
Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 269 273 Other taxes and social security costs 12 37 Other payables 14 12 Accruals 122 138 Deferred income 46 51 463 511 The Group has agreed longer commercial credit terms with certain suppliers.
Excluding these suppliers, the underlying average credit period taken on trade payables was 50 days 2017: 50 days.
Including these suppliers, the average credit period taken was 55 days 2017: 57 days.
Included in trade payables are capital payables amounting to 82m 2017: 65m.
The Group offers, via its bank group, a supply chain financing facility to its suppliers.
The facility allows suppliers to obtain payment from the bank ahead of the commercially agreed payment terms.
When a supplier utilises the facility, the Group continues to have the payment obligation and will pay on the commercially agreed payment terms.
At the 31 March 2018, the Group recognised payables of 6m where thesupplier had elected to utilise the supply chain facility.
Rebates receivable from suppliers are accounted for in accordance with the policy set out in note 1.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings a Cash and cash equivalents comprise: 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 43 50 The effective interest rate on bank deposits and money market funds was 0.2% 2017: 0.1%.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 101 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued b Borrowings comprise: 2018 2017 Maturity m m Current 75m receivables purchase facility 2018 67 Finance leases 2018 8 75 2018 2017 Maturity m m Non-current $185m US Private Placement USPP Notes 2021, 2024, 2026 148 560m revolving credit facility 2019 165 50m bilateral agreements 2019 50 100m term loan 2019 50 75m receivables purchase agreement facility 2018 58 400m Senior Notes 2022 400 400 640m revolving credit facility 2022 300 Finance leases 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023 23 Non-current borrowings before derivatives 723 871 Total borrowings before derivatives 798 871 Derivatives 39 Total borrowings after derivatives 798 832 Total borrowings after derivatives comprise: 2018 2017 m m Headline debt 767 832 Finance leases 31 Total borrowing after derivatives 798 832 Undrawn available committed facilities are as follows: 2018 2017 Maturity m m Undrawn available committed facilities excluding finance leases 2018, 2022 348 412 The book value and fair value of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Less than 1 year 75 1 to 2 years 7 58 2 to 3 years 7 265 3 to 4 years 406 4 to 5 years 303 482 Greater than 5 years 27 Total borrowings after derivatives 798 832 The fair value of borrowings is not materially different to its amortised cost.
102 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 18.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued b Borrowings comprise: continued Borrowing facilities The Groups committed facilities total 1,115m 2017: 1,244m.
The Groups uncommitted facilities total 110m 2017: 116m giving headroom on committed facilities and uncommitted facilities of 348m 2017: 412m and 110m 2017: 116m respectively.
The financial covenants included in each bank facility and the USPP Notes restrict the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and require minimum levels of interest cover.
The amounts used in the covenant calculations are subject to adjustments for the receivables purchase facility andnon-Headline items.
The Group was in compliance with its covenants throughout the current and prior periods.
Details of the Groups borrowing facilities as at 31 March 2018 are set out below: 400m Senior Notes On 15 January 2017, TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC issued 400m Senior Notes due 2022.
The Senior Notes include incurrence-based covenants customary for this type of debt, including limitations on TalkTalks ability to incur additional debt and make restricted payments, subject to certain exceptions.
The Group is permitted to incur additional debt subject to compliance with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 4.0x and to pay dividends when net debt to EBITDA is below 3.0x 2.75x from January 2019.
Regardless of the Companys net debt to EBITDA ratio, dividends are also permitted to be paid out of a basket based on 50% of cumulative consolidated net income from 1 October 2016.
Theinterest rate payable on the notes is 5.375% payable semi-annually.
640m revolving credit facility RCF On 8 May 2017, the Group signed a 640m RCF agreement, which matures in May 2022.
The interest rate payable in respect of drawings under this facility is at a margin over LIBOR and for the appropriate period.
The actual margin applicable to any drawing depends on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA calculated in respect of the most recent accounting period.
Receivables purchase agreement In September 2016, the Group signed a 75m receivables purchase agreement which matures in September 2018 and is included within committed facilities.
The Group has the ability on a rolling basis to sell its receivables to a third party vehicle in exchange for a discounted consideration.
The Group is deemed to control the third party vehicle and therefore continues to consolidate the relevant receivables on the grounds that substantially not all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred under the programme.
Uncommitted money market facilities and bank overdrafts These facilities are used to assist in short term cash management and bear interest at a margin over the Bank of England base rate.
Finance leases The Group uses finance leases as an alternative source of financing for significant items of capital expenditure, matching the cash profile with the life of the asset and offering flexibility regarding ownership of the lease at the end of the finance term.
Finance leases at 31 March 2018 were 31m 2017: nil.
$185m USPP Notes In August 2017, the Group repurchased 100% of the $185m of USPP Notes originally maturing in three tranches $139m in 2021, $25m in2024 and $21m in 2026.
560m revolving credit facility RCF, 50m bilateral agreement and 100m term loan On 8 May 2017, the Group refinanced the 2014 RCF, the 2014 bilateral agreement and the 100m term loan repaying the outstanding debt with the proceeds from the new 640m RCF, which matures in May 2022.
Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments The book value and fair value of the Groups financial assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents note 18 43 50 Trade and other receivables 355 369 Non-current investments and investment in joint venture 3 8 Non-current trade and other receivables 7 6 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships: Derivative financial instruments 31 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 416 460 Current borrowings before derivatives note 18 75 Non-current borrowings before derivatives note 18 723 871 807 867 1 The Group has no financial instruments designated as fair value through the profit and loss FVTPL.
2 Prepayments and accrued income has been included within the other receivables so as to give completeness over the Groups future cash inflows.
3 Derivative financial instruments of nil 2017: 32m relates to the USPP Notes, and nil 2017: 1m relates to interest rate hedges.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 103 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued a Financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including market risk such as currency risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group treasury function uses certain financial instruments to mitigate potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance from these risks.
These financial instruments primarily consist of foreign exchange hedges and interest rate swaps.
Other products, such as currency options, can also be used depending on the risks to be covered, but have not been used in the current or preceding financial year.
The Group does not trade or speculate in any financial instruments.
The Group has cash flow hedges in place to swap the interest rate risk on the bank debt from floating to fixed rates.
The outstanding swaps mature in January 2019.
These hedges have been fully effective from inception.
The Group will keep its risk position under review in the coming year to determine whether further hedges are required, in line with its policy.
The fair value measurement is classified as Level 2 2017: Level 2, derived from other observable market data: this means that their fair value is based upon the mark to market valuation at the balance sheet date.
Fair value measurement at Level 2 gives consideration to interest rates, yield curves and foreign exchange rates at commonly quoted intervals for relevant currencies.
The Group has also assessed the credit risk within its financial instruments.
The fair value of these instruments at 31 March 2018 is nil 2017: 31m.
The cross-currency swaps held to hedge the risk on the USD denominated USPP $185m Notes were closed out in the year ended 31March 2018 following the repurchase of the Notes, resulting in a reduction to the fair value measurement of financial instruments compared to the prior year.
b Embedded derivatives No contracts with embedded derivatives have been identified and, accordingly, no such derivatives have been accounted for separately.
c Foreign exchange risk The Group uses spot and forward foreign exchange trading to hedge transactional exposures, which arise mainly through cost of sales and operating expenses and are primarily denominated in Euro and US Dollar.
During the year the Group also used cross-currency swaps to hedge its US Dollar denominated borrowings USPP Notes.
At 31 March 2018, the adjustment to translate our net debt to Sterling atswap rates to reflect the impact of hedging was nil 2017: 39m.
Borrowings and foreign exchange contracts are sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates: this sensitivity can be analysed in comparison to year-end rates.
There would be no material impact of a 10% movement in the UK Sterling Euro or UK Sterling USD exchange rate on either the income statement or other equity.
The effect of foreign exchange derivatives on borrowings at the year end was as follows: UK Sterling US Dollar Total m m m 2018 Headline debt 767 767 Finance leases 31 31 Total borrowings after derivatives and finance leases 798 798 UK Sterling US Dollar Total m m m 2017 Headline debt 723 148 871 Derivatives 39 39 Total borrowings after derivatives 723 109 832 During the year, the Group used derivatives for the management of the USPP Notes, foreign currency cash balances and foreign currency trading balances.
d Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from cash, cash equivalents and borrowings, all of which are at floating rates of interest and thus expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
These floating rates are linked to LIBOR and other interest rate bases as appropriate to the instrument and currency.
Future cash flows arising from these financial instruments depend on interest rates and periods for each loan or rollover.
As detailed in section a, the Group has cash flow hedges in place to mitigate its interest rate risk on its borrowings.
The fair value measurement of the cash flow hedges is classified as Level 2 2017: Level 2, derived from other observable market data: this means that their fair value is based upon the mark to market valuation at the balance sheet date.
Cash and borrowings, as well as some foreign exchange products, are sensitive to movements in interest rates and such movements have been analysed in the table below by calculating the effect on the income statement and equity of a one percentage point movement in the interest rate for the currencies in which most Group cash and borrowings are denominated.
Funding to related parties has been offset against gross borrowings in calculating these sensitivities.
This annualised analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the year-end positions prevail throughout the year, and therefore may not be representative of fluctuations in levels of borrowings.
104 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 19.
Financial risk management and derivative financial instruments continued d Interest rate risk continued 2018 2017 m m 100 basis points movement in the UK Sterling interest rate Income statement movement 3 2 e Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by regularly reviewing the long and short term cash flow projections for the business against facilities and other resources available to it.
During the first half of the financial year the Group refinanced its core bank facilities into a new 640m revolving credit facility.
This new facility together with the Senior Notes, the Groups share capital and reserves and a number of equipment and property leases form the Groups core financing.
In addition, the Group has commercial contracts with certain customers on extended payment terms.
To help manage the impact of these terms on its liquidity, the Group has access to invoice discounting lines with its banks which allow it to sell the receivables.
The receivables are sold to the bank on a non-recourse basis and as such are derecognised on sale.
At 31 March 2018 95m ofinvoices had been sold using these lines.
Following the refinancing of the bank debt, the Group successfully repurchased 100% of its USPP Notes simplifying the funding structure.
Inaddition to focusing on its core sources of liquidity, the Group uses a mix of overdrafts, short-dated uncommitted money market facilities, receivables factoring and commercial supplier terms to manage its day to day liquidity position.
The Group will continue to review its sources of finance going forward.
Headroom is assessed based on historical experience as well as by assessing current business risks, availability and renewal of future facilities and foreign exchange movements.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted gross cash flows including interest, assuming year-end interest rates remain constant and that borrowings are paid in full in the year of maturity.
Less than More than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 2018 Borrowings 97 30 30 430 301 888 Finance leases 9 8 7 6 4 34 Trade and other payables 463 463 569 38 37 436 305 1,385 Less than More than 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m 2017 Borrowings 39 91 293 26 531 41 1,021 Derivative financial instruments receivable 29 10 39 Trade and other payables 511 511 550 91 293 26 502 31 1,493 f Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored.
Debt, investments, foreign exchange and derivative transactions are all spread amongst a number of banks, all of which have short or long term credit ratings appropriate to the Groups exposures.
Trade receivables primarily comprise balances due from fixed line customers, and provision is made for any receivables that are considered to be irrecoverable.
g Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return tostakeholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes bank facilities, Senior Notes, receivables and purchase facility, invoice discounting, retained profits and equity.
The Group continues to review its funding and capital structure with the objectives of diversifying sources and managing both the average tenor and interest cost.
During the year, the Group made further changes to its funding structure, re-financing the 560m 2014 RCF with a 640m 2017 RCF in May 2017 and repurchasing the $185m US Private Placement Notes in August 2017 to better align our capital structure with the Groups strategy.
In addition, on 8 February2018, the Group placed an aggregate of 190,654,206 new ordinary shares of 0.1p at a price of 107p per placing share to raise net proceeds of 201m after expenses.
For further detail, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 105 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Provisions Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
The tables below analyse the Groups provisions: 2018 2017 m m Current 31 22 Non-current 28 14 59 36 One Company Contract integration Property and other Total m m m m 2018 Opening balance 1 15 20 36 Charged to income statement 9 43 52 Released to income statement 1 7 8 Utilised in the year 5 16 21 Closing balance 19 40 59 One Company Contract integration Property and other Total m m m m 2017 Opening balance 1 12 16 29 Charged to income statement 4 16 20 Released to income statement 1 1 2 Utilised in the year 11 11 Closing balance 1 15 20 36 Provisions are categorised as follows: One Company integration This provision related principally to reorganisation costs and was released during the year following the change in mobile strategy announced in May 2017 note 9.
Property Property provisions relate to dilapidations and similar property costs, and costs associated with onerous property contracts.
All such provisions are assessed by reference to the terms and conditions of the contract and market conditions at the balance sheet date.
Onerous property contracts are expected to be utilised over the next seven years.
Dilapidation provisions are expected to be utilised as and when properties are exited.
These provisions include the costs of exiting our Warrington and Irlam sites, as the Group relocated to one site at the Soapworks in Salford, and the rationalisation of our property footprint in London.
Contract and other Contract and other provisions relate to onerous contracts and contracts with unfavourable terms, anticipated costs of unresolved legal disputes and committed costs relating to exceptional projects.
Onerous contracts are supplier commitments entered into prior to the reassessment of the Groups mobile strategy, these are expected to be utilised over the next 12 months.
All such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
Share capital 2018 2017 2018 2017 million million m m Authorised, issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 0.1p each 1,146 955 1 1 The Company has one class of ordinary share that carries no right to fixed income.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
106 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 21.
Share capital continued On 8 February 2018, the Group placed an aggregate of 190,654,206 new ordinary shares of 0.1p at a price of 107p per placing share to raise net proceeds of 201m after expenses.
The placing shares represented approximately 19.95% of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The placing utilised a cash box structure, whereby the cash box entity issued redeemable preference shares in consideration for the receipt of the cash proceeds net of issue costs arising from the placing.
The Companys ordinary shares were issued as consideration for the transfer to it of the shares, which it did not already own, in the cash box entity.
As a result, in the opinion of the Board, the placing qualified for merger relief under section 612 of Companies Act 2006 so that the excess of the value of the acquired shares in the cash box entity over the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued by the Company was credited to the Companys other reserves.
The placing shares ranked pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid after the date of issue.
Reserves Share premium The share premium account records the difference between the nominal amount of shares issued and the fair value of the consideration received.
The share premium account may be used for certain purposes specified by UK law, including to write off expenses incurred on any issue of shares or debentures and to pay up fully paid bonus shares.
The share premium account is not distributable but may be reduced by special resolution of the Companys ordinary shareholders and with court approval.
Translation reserve The results of overseas operations are translated at the average foreign exchange rates for the year, and their balance sheets are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net assets and results of overseas operations are recognised in the translation and hedging reserve.
All other exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Demerger reserve The demerger reserve primarily reflects the profits or losses arising on the transfer of investments and net assets of Carphone Warehouse plc on demerger.
Retained earnings Retained earnings are accumulated reserves and placing discussed in note 21.
Other reserve Group ESOT The Group ESOT held four million shares at 31 March 2018 2017: five million in the Company for the benefit of employees.
The decrease in the number of shares held is due to employees participating in the Group schemes exercising their options during the year.
Analysis of changes in net debt Net Non-cash Opening cash flow movements Closing m m m m 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 50 7 43 Borrowings 871 104 767 Derivatives 39 39 Headline debt note 18 832 65 767 Headline net debt 782 58 724 Finance leases note 18 31 31 1 Net debt 782 58 31 755 Net Non-cash Opening cash flow movements Closing m m m m 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 10 40 50 Borrowings 709 143 19 871 Derivatives 20 19 39 Headline debt 689 143 832 1 Headline net debt and net debt 679 103 782 1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 107 Financial statements N otes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Leases a Operating leases The Group leases network infrastructure and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
There were no leases which were individually significant to the Group.
Due to the forthcoming adoption in the year ended 31 March 2019 of IFRS 16 Leases, impacting lease recognition, the Group has reviewed the completeness of its existing disclosure.
Accordingly, the 2017 comparatives have been restated to ensure comparable information is presented.
The previously presented 2017 total of 193m has been restated to 185m in the table below.
The Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum payments due as follows: 2018 2017 restated Network Total Network Total Property equipment m Property equipment m Less than 1 year 10 13 23 12 24 36 2 to 5 years 30 15 45 38 36 74 Greater than 5 years 66 2 68 72 3 75 106 30 136 122 63 185 b Finance leases Minimum lease payments 2018 2017 Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 26 34 Less: future finance charges 3 Present value of lease obligations 31 Present value of minimum lease payments 2018 2017 Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 23 Present value of lease obligations 31 Analysed as: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 8 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 23 Present value of lease obligations 31 It is the Groups policy to lease some of its equipment on finance leases.
The average lease term is 4.3 years.
For the year ended 31 March 2018, the average effective borrowing rate was 6.2% 2017: nil.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations as at 31 March 2018 is estimated to be 31m 2017: nil using a 6.2% 2017: nil discount rate.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
108 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 25.
Commitments The Group has in the normal course of business entered into various multi-year supply and working capital agreements for core network, ITandcustomer equipment.
As at 31 March 2018, expenditure contracted but not provided for in these financial statements amounted to203m 2017: 231m.
Of this amount, 100m 2017: 127m related to supply for core network, IT and customer equipment, 82m 2017:65m related to capital commitments and 21m 2017: 39m related to the supply of customer equipment.
Under the Heads of terms agreed with Infracapital for the new FTTP venture, the parties have agreed to an initial funding commitment of100m, of which the Groups share is 20m.
In addition, the Grouphas a contingent liability in relation to potential costs associated with a commercial agreement of up to 25m 2017:nil.
Related party transactions a Subsidiaries and joint ventures Details of subsidiaries and joint ventures are disclosed in notes 13 and 14 respectively.
b Directors The remuneration of the Directors, who are some of the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 55.
The remuneration of all key management personnel is disclosed in note 4.
On 8 February 2018, the Group placed an aggregate of 190,654,206 new ordinary shares of 0.1p at a price of 107p per placing share to raise net proceeds of approximately 201m after expenses.
The Executive Chairman, other Directors R Taylor, T Harrison, N Langstaff, K Ferry, CBligh, J Gildersleeve, I West and the Company Secretary T Morris participated in this Placing purchasing 32,710,280 shares, 4,672,896 shares, 279,671 shares, 186,915 shares, 139,835 shares, 65,256 shares, 46,728 shares, 18,691 shares and 186,915 shares respectively.
Post balance sheet events On 24 May 2018, the Group announced plans to sell its direct B2B business to Daisy for 175m.
The transaction includes all direct business customers, who will be served by Daisy but will remain on Groups network via a new wholesale agreement.
The transaction represents anon-adjusting post balance sheet event and underpins the Groups strategy tofocus on core, high-growth partner and wholesale B2B channels.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 109
