Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Glossary A C D Acidulants Carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e Discontinued operations Ingredients such as citric acid that are used One metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an An operation is classified as discontinued if to add a sour taste to food and soft drinks amount of any other greenhouse gas with it is a component of the Group that: i has and to act as a preservative.
an equivalent global warming potential, been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be calculated consistently with international classified as held for sale: and ii Adjusted free cash flow carbon reporting practices.
represents a separate major line of Adjusted free cash flow represents cash business or geographic area of operations: generated from continuing operations CLARIA Functional Clean-Label or will be disposed of as part of a single coexcluding the impact of exceptional items, Starches ordinated plan to dispose of a separate less net interest paid, less income tax paid, A line of clean-label starches with neutral major line of business or geographic area of less capital expenditure.
taste and colour comparable to normal operations.
modified starches that is versatile across a Adjusted operating cash flow DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose broad range of applications and Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as sophisticated processes.
Low-calorie sugar that offers a superior, adjusted free cash flow from continuing new taste experience.
operations, adding back net interest and tax Clean label paid, retirement cash contributions, and A term used in the food and beverage E excluding derivative and margin call industry generally to refer to shorter or movements within working capital.
simpler ingredient lists or less processed ETHYLEX Surface Treatment Starch ingredients that appeal more to some An industrial starch used in paper.
Adjusted operating profit PBITEA consumers than those containing complex Operating profit as defined separately, ingredients.
adjusted for amortisation of acquired F intangible assets and net exceptional items.
Commodities Commodities include US ethanol and Food & Beverage Solutions F & B Adjusted profit before tax PBTEA co-products.
Solutions Profit before tax as defined separately, Including Sucralose, previously named adjusted for amortisation of acquired Constant currency Speciality Food Ingredients SFI division.
intangible assets, net exceptional items Where changes in constant currency and net retirement benefit interest.
are presented, they are calculated by Food Systems retranslating current year results at prior The previous name of our stabiliser year exchange rates.
Reconciliation business which is part of the Food & B between the 2018 performance at actual Beverage Solutions division.
It sources TM exchange rates and at constant currency ingredients and uses them to develop Bio-PDO exchange rates have been included in the bespoke combinations of ingredients for Multi-purpose monomer propanediol additional information on page 179. customers, principally for stabilisation.
made from corn as opposed to being made from a petrochemical source.
Continuing operations Used in cosmetics, detergents, carpets G Operations of the Group excluding any and textiles.
discontinued operations as defined Greenhouse gas GHG separately.
Any of the following: carbon dioxide CO2, Co-products methane CH4, nitrous oxide N2O, Corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, corn oil.
Corn gluten feed The largest Tate & Lyle co-product, used in H animal feed for dairy and beef cattle.
HFCS High fructose corn syrup widely used as a substitute for sugar in North America.
Also called isoglucose in Europe.
com 181 Glossary continued I P ICD Primary capacity Innovation and Commercial Development Processing capacity for the first stage of group, supporting our two business production, at which the agricultural raw divisions, Food & Beverage Solutions and material enters the production process.
Primary Products PP Previously named Bulk Ingredients BI L division.
Label friendly Profit before tax PBT Denotes ingredients that, when listed on Sales, less net operating expense, less net product ingredient labels, may appeal more finance expense and including the Groups to some consumers who show a preference share of profit after tax of joint ventures.
for ingredients in food products which they PROMITOR Soluble Fibre feel are more transparent, authentic, A prebiotic soluble fibre.
simpler or easier to understand than alternatives which may be perceived by PromOat Beta Glucan some consumers as being artificial, A soluble fibre made from wholegrain oats chemical or in some way less authentic.
used to bring the health benefits of oat beta glucan to food and beverages.
N R Natural A natural description usually refers to a REZISTA Speciality Food Starch food ingredient that is present in nature and A modified starch made from waxy corn has been minimally processed.
However, which builds and protects texture in foods.
interpretations vary according to the different legal and regulatory landscape in different countries.
S New Products SPLENDA Sucralose New Products are products in the first A zero-calorie sweetener, the seven years after launch.
manufacturing process for which starts with sugar.
O Stabiliser Systems Systems customising ingredient blends to Operating profit also referred to as improve product mouthfeel, texture and profit before interest and tax PBIT stability profile.
Sales less net operating expense.
STA-LITE Polydextrose A soluble fibre with prebiotic properties made from corn and used to provide body and texture in reduced calorie, no-added sugar and high-fibre foods.
STA-LOK Cationic Corn Starch An industrial starch used in paper.
TM STA-TAPE Starches An industrial starch used for adhesives.
Sucralose A reportable segment and part of the Food & Beverage Solutions division.
182 182 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Definitions explanatory notes 4.
Auestad N, Hurley J, Fulgoni VL, et al.
Non-reliance statement Definitions Contribution of Food Groups to Energy In this Annual Report: This Annual Report has been prepared and Nutrient Intakes in Five Developed solely to provide additional information to Company means Tate & Lyle PLC Countries.
2015 Jun 8:7 6 : shareholders to assess the Groups Tate & Lyle, Group, we, us or 4593-618. strategy and the potential of that strategy to our means Tate & Lyle PLC and succeed, and should not be relied upon by 5.
Murphy N, Norat T, Ferrari P, et al.
its subsidiaries any other party or for any other purpose.
Dietary fibre intake and risks of cancers of Gemacom means Tate & Lyle the colon and rectum in the European Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio Cautionary statement prospective investigation into cancer and S. A.
This Annual Report contains certain nutrition EPIC.
Almex means Almidones Mexicanos SA forward-looking statements with respect to 6.
Trends in dietary fiber the financial condition, results, operations Bio-PDO means DuPont Tate & Lyle intake in Chinese aged 45 years and above, and businesses of Tate & Lyle PLC.
These Bio Products Company, LLC 1991-2011.
2014 May: statements and forecasts involve risk and during the year means during the 68 5 :619-22. uncertainty because they relate to events financial year ended 31 March 2018. and depend upon circumstances that may 7.
CODEX-aligned dietary fiber definitions occur in the future.
There are a number of help to bridge the fiber gap.
Environmental statement factors that could cause actual results or Nutr J.
This Annual Report has been printed on developments to differ materially from 8.
Flores M, Macias N, Rivera M, et al.
UPM Fine offset, a paper produced using those expressed or implied by these Dietary patterns in Mexican adults are wood fibre from fully sustainable forests forward-looking statements and forecasts.
associated with risk of being overweight or with Forest Stewardship Council FSC obese J Nutr.
All pulps used are elemental Tate & Lyle PLC chlorine free and the manufacturing mill 9.
Sardinha AN, Canella DS, Martins AP, et Tate & Lyle PLC is a public limited company holds the ISO 14001 and the EMAS listed on the London Stock Exchange and is al.
Dietary sources of fiber intake in Brazil.
accreditations for their environmental Appetite.
2014 Aug:79:134-8. registered in England and Wales.
More information about Tate & Lyle can be Printed in the UK by Pureprint using found on the Companys website, Basis of preparation vegetable inks and its Alcofree and www.
Unless stated otherwise, the Groups Pureprint environmental printing financial statements are prepared in technology.
Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral Sources for Digestive health accordance with International Financial company, is registered to the chart on page 5 Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Environmental Management System 1.
Institute of Medicine, Food and Nutrition the EU.
Standard ISO 14001 and is FSC chain-ofBoard.
Dietary Reference Intakes: Energy, custody certified.
Carbohydrates, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Amortisation Cholesterol, Protein and Amino Acids.
If you have finished with this Annual Report Unless stated otherwise, the use of the Washington, DC: National Academies and no longer wish to retain it, please pass word amortisation on pages 1 to 91 in this Press: 2002 2005. it on to other interested readers or dispose Annual Report relates to the amortisation of of it in your recycled paper waste.
Stephen AM, Champ MM-J, Cloran, SJ, intangible assets acquired through business combinations.
Dietary fibre in Europe: current state The CO2 emissions from the production and of knowledge on definitions, sources, distribution of this Annual Report have been Continuing operations recommendations, intakes and offset through the purchase of carbon Unless stated otherwise, all comments in relationships to health.
Nutrition Research credits in the Pureprint Gold programme.
this Annual Report refer to the continuing Reviews.
The offsets are always in Gold Standard operations adjusted to exclude exceptional accredited projects and currently come 3.
World Health Organization Diet, Nutrition items, amortisation of intangible assets from the Basa Magogo project in South and the Prevention of Chronic Diseases.
acquired through business combinations, Africa.
The first Gold Standard project of its Geneva: WHO.
2003. net retirement benefit interest and tax on kind in the world, this innovative behaviourthe above items and tax items that change programme teaches local themselves meet these definitions.
A communities in South Africa to burn coal reconciliation of reported and adjusted more efficiently, thereby reducing carbon information is included in Note 4 of the emissions and reducing health risks by consolidated financial statements.
Registered office Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AT Tel: 44 0 20 7257 2100 Fax: 44 0 20 7257 2200 Company number: 76535 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com 183 Registered office Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AT Tel: 44 0 20 7257 2100 Fax: 44 0 20 7257 2200 Designed and produced by Company number: 76535 Black Sun Plc 184 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate&Lyle Annual Report 2018 www.
