Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements These measures are presented because they provide investors with 1.
Basis of preparation additional information about the performance of the business which Description of business the Directors consider to be valuable.
For the years presented, Tate & Lyle PLC the Company is a public limited company alternative performance measures exclude, where relevant: incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England.
Exceptional items excluded as they relate to events which are The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London unlikely to recur, are outside the normal course of business and Stock Exchange.
therefore merit separate disclosure in order to provide a better The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group provide understanding of the Group's underlying financial performance ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage and other Amortisation of acquired intangible assets costs associated with industries.
The Group operates from numerous production amounts recognised through acquisition accounting that impact facilities around the world.
earnings compared to organic investments The Groups continuing operations comprise three reportable Net retirement benefit interest accounting charges or credits segments: Food & Beverage Solutions, Sucralose and Primary which are not linked to the underlying performance of the Products.
Segment information is presented in Note 5. business.
The amounts excluded reflect the net interest cost of post-retirement benefit plans substantially closed to future Accounting period accrual : and The Groups annual financial statements are drawn up to 31 March.
Tax on the above items and tax items that themselves meet these These financial statements cover the year ended 31 March 2018 definitions.
For tax items to be treated as exceptional, amounts with comparative financials for the year ended 31 March 2017. must be material and their treatment as exceptional enable a better Basis of accounting understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
The consolidated financial statements on pages 100 to 168 have Alternative performance measures reported by the Group are not been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable Standards IFRS and related interpretations as adopted for use in with similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.
the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Reconciliations of the alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measures are presented in Note 4.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for a period not less than 12 months Following the improved funding status of the Groups pension from the date of approval of the financial statements and that schemes, the Group no longer intends to exclude net retirement there are no material uncertainties around their assessment.
benefit interest from its alternative performance measures from Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern the beginning of the 2019 financial year as the size of this basis of accounting.
adjustment is no longer expected to be material.
The Groups principal accounting policies have been consistently Changes in constant currency applied throughout the year and are set out in Note 2 and Note 3.
Where changes in constant currency are presented, they are calculated by retranslating current year results at prior year Functional and presentation currency exchange rates.
Reconciliations of the movement in constant The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, currency have been included in the additional information within which is also the Companys functional currency.
All amounts are this document.
rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise indicated.
Principal accounting policies requiring Accounting standards adopted during the year In the current year, the Group has adopted, with effect from significant judgements and estimates 1 April 2017, new or revised accounting standards as set out below: In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgements and used estimates and assumptions in IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative establishing the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses expense under the Groups accounting policies.
Judgements are Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 cycle.
based on the best evidence available to management.
Estimates are based on factors including historical experience and The adoption of these amendments has had no material effect on expectations of future events, corroborated with external the Groups financial statements.
Judgements and estimates and their Use of alternative performance measures underlying assumptions are reviewed and updated on an ongoing The Group also presents alternative performance measures, basis, with any revisions being recognised prospectively.
However, including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, given the inherent uncertainty of such estimates, the actual results adjusted earnings per share, adjusted operating cash flow might differ significantly from the anticipated ones.
and adjusted free cash flow, which are used for internal The accounting policies and information about the accounting performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements estimates and judgements made in applying these accounting policies for employees.
that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
com 105 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The elements of the Groups US net corn position are accounted for 2.
Principal accounting policies requiring as follows: significant judgements and estimates continued Contracts for the physical purchase of corn in respect of Fair value measurement corresponding committed sales of finished goods are marked to This accounting policy applies principally to Available-for-sale market in accordance with IAS 39 with any gains or losses financial assets: Derivatives and hedge accounting: Financial recognised in the income statement instruments fair value and risk management: and Retirement Contracts for the sale of corn and corn based products are benefit obligations see Notes 18, 28, 29, and 30 marked to market in accordance with IAS 39 with any gains or A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures losses recognised in the income statement require the measurement of fair value for either financial or nonCorn inventories are measured at net realisable value in financial assets and liabilities.
Examples of the former include accordance with IAS 2.3, with any gains or losses recognised in loans, interest rate swaps and commodity contracts: examples of the income statement the latter include intangible assets and property, plant and Financial instruments futures and options are carried at fair equipment acquired in a business combination.
value with any gains or losses recognised immediately in the Fair value is the amount of money, or other consideration, expected income statement.
to be exchanged for an asset or a liability in an arms length Although the Group manages corn price risk by entering into transaction.
When measuring fair value, the Group takes into offsetting back-to-back corn positions, there is still underlying account the characteristics of the asset or liability and uses price risk on the basis cost that must be paid for delivery of the corn observable market data, such as prices quoted on a recognised to its plants.
This basis is the difference in price between that at exchange, to the greatest extent possible.
Where such data is not which a farmer will sell and the price on the Chicago Mercantile available, the Group has an established framework in place that Exchange CME, and is typically driven by local supply, demand and deals with setting, monitoring and evaluating non-observable logistics factors, requiring estimation for valuation purposes.
inputs, including the respective classification of the fair value measurements.
Such unobservable inputs are based on The production of finished goods from corn also results in the managements own assessment of market and other conditions production of three co-products corn gluten feed, corn gluten currently prevailing or expected to prevail.
The price risk associated with these coproducts cannot readily be hedged as there are no actively traded Fair value measurements are categorised into three different levels markets for these commodities.
Whilst the Group actively manages based on the degree to which the inputs used to arrive at the fair its overall co-product positions in the US, the Group can hold either value of the assets and liabilities are observable and the significance a net long or short position for each co-product based on the of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, as follows: volume of co-products made, bought or short sold and forward Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets sold at any point in time.
These positions are measured at fair value for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can assess at the at each reporting date, with gains and losses recognised in the measurement date.
The prices of equity shares or bonds quoted income statement.
on the London Stock Exchange are examples of Level 1 inputs Management exercises significant judgement in deriving these fair Level 2 inputs are those, other than quoted prices included in values, which involves estimating the basis and the price at which Level 1, that are observable either directly or indirectly.
Most the Group will purchase or sell these co-product positions in the interest rate swaps fall in this category as their prices are future.
These inputs are classified as unobservable, and are derived referenced to a published rate curve, but it is not price specific by in-house experts, with reference to sources such as: the to the swap itself expected supply and demand for corn and substitute products, Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs.
The Group generally expectations of weather conditions, and historical published classifies assets or liabilities as Level 3 when their fair value is co-product pricing levels over a period of up to three months from determined using unobservable inputs that individually, or when the balance sheet date.
aggregated with other unobservable inputs, represent more than Whilst it is possible to model the sensitivity of profit to changes in 10% of the fair value of the observable inputs of the assets or any one of the key assumptions, it is important to note that, due to liabilities.
This would include expected future cash flows from the complexity and interdependence of related assumptions, the budgets and forecasts the entity has made.
Certain elements of the overall net impact in reality is likely to be different.
Groups commodity contract portfolio also fall into this category, as their values include significant management-derived assumptions.
The accounting for corn and co-product positions can create significant volatility in the Groups income statement, For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial although the use of such contracts is critical to the business as it statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines effectively limits the Groups exposure to fluctuating market prices.
whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level of input that Whilst it is not practical to quantify all elements included in fair is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end value measurements, the Group discloses sensitivity analysis on of the reporting period.
the key areas of judgement price of co-products and basis and the carrying amounts impacted by estimation uncertainty in Note 29.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Full details of the valuation technique are also included in Note 29.
Corn and co-product inventories held in the US business are measured at net realisable value since they are considered to be Corn and co-product positions in Europe are measured and carried agricultural produce after harvest.
The Group uses financial at the lower of cost and net realisable value, since the European instruments mainly forward contracts to manage price risk within business does not currently have the potential to hedge corn price its US business, by hedging the contracted amount of corn when risk on a similar basis to the US.
any business division enters into a finished good sales contract.
106 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 106 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key sources of estimation uncertainty Taxation The Group operates in a large number of countries around the This accounting policy principally applies to Income taxes see world.
Uncertainties exist in relation to the interpretation of Note 12 complex tax legislation, changes in tax laws, and the amount and Taxable profit differs from accounting profit because it excludes timing of future taxable income.
In some jurisdictions, agreeing tax certain items of income and expense that are recognised in the liabilities with local tax authorities can take several years.
This financial statements but are treated differently for tax purposes.
could necessitate future adjustments to taxable income and Current tax is the amount of tax expected to be payable or receivable expense already recorded.
on the taxable profit or loss for the current period.
This amount is At the period-end date, tax liabilities and assets are based on then amended for any adjustments in respect of prior periods.
managements best judgements around the application of the tax Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been written into regulations and managements estimate of the future amounts that law enacted or irrevocably announced committed by the respective will be settled.
Management considers tax exposures individually, government substantively enacted at the period-end date.
and arrives at judgements with support from experienced tax Current tax receivable assets and payable liabilities are offset professionals and external advisors.
There is, however, a risk that only when there is a legal right to settle them net and the entity the Groups judgements are challenged by the tax authorities, intends to do so.
This is generally true when the taxes are levied by resulting in a different tax payable or recoverable from the amounts the same tax authority.
Because of the differences between accounting and taxable profits Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses only to and losses reported in each period, temporary differences arise on the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available the amount certain assets and liabilities are carried at for accounting against which the losses can be utilised.
Management judgement purposes and their respective tax values.
Deferred tax is the amount is required to determine the amount of deferred tax that should be of tax payable or recoverable on these temporary differences.
recognised, dependent on the anticipated timing and quantum of future taxable profit.
This amount includes UK deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities arise where the carrying amount of an asset based on the level of brought-forward losses it expects to utilise in is higher than its tax value more tax deduction has been taken.
This amount is dependent on key judgements relating This can happen where the Group invests in capital assets, as to the size, duration and interest rate of the Groups internal governments often encourage investment by allowing tax financing arrangements.
depreciation to be recognised faster than accounting depreciation.
This reduces the tax value of the asset relative to its accounting The main uncertainties impacting taxation arise from potential carrying amount.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided on changes to legislation.
Firstly, the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit all taxable temporary differences.
The periods over which such Shifting BEPS project has been one of the most significant temporary differences reverse will vary depending on the life of the multilateral initiatives in recent years for modifying international tax related asset or liability.
As these recommendations continue to evolve and are adopted into local tax legislation over the coming years, this may Deferred tax assets arise where the carrying amount of an asset is continue to impact the Groups effective tax rate.
Secondly, on lower than the tax value less tax benefit has been taken.
This can 22 December 2017 the United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs happen where the Group has trading losses, which cannot be offset Act US Tax Reforms.
As well as reducing the headline rate of in the current period but can be carried forward.
Deferred tax assets corporation tax in the US, it introduced a number of incentives for are recognised only where the Group considers it probable that it companies to invest in the US and other changes to broaden the tax will be able to obtain the benefit of them in the future for example, base in the US.
Whilst guidance will continue to emerge, use such losses by offsetting them against future taxable profits.
management has exercised judgement in the application of the US Taxable temporary differences can also arise on investments in Tax Reforms which has had a material impact on the Groups foreign subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures.
Where the Group is able to control the reversal of these differences The Groups operating model involves cross-border supply of and it is probable that these will not reverse in the foreseeable significant volumes of goods into numerous end markets, and the future, then no deferred tax is provided.
provision of services from one jurisdiction to another.
There is a Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively risk that different tax authorities could seek to assess higher profits enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or lower costs to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction, or the liability is settled.
potentially leading to higher total tax payable by the Group.
Similar to current taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are Retirement benefit plans offset only when there is a legal right to settle them net and the This accounting policy principally applies to Retirement benefit entity intends to do so.
This normally requires both assets and obligations see Note 30 liabilities to have arisen in the same country.
The Group operates both defined contribution and defined benefit Income tax expense reported in the financial statements comprises pension plans principally in the UK and the US and unfunded current tax as well as the effects of changes in deferred tax assets retirement medical plans in the US.
Tax expenses credits are generally recognised in the same place as the items to which they relate.
For example, the tax associated with a gain on disposal is recognised in the income statement, in line with the gain on disposal.
Equally, the tax associated with pension obligation actuarial gains and losses is recognised in other comprehensive income, in line with the actuarial gains and losses.
com 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The present value of the benefit obligations is most sensitive to the 2.
Principal accounting policies requiring discount rate applied to the benefit obligations, assumed life significant judgements and estimates continued expectancies, and expected future price inflation rates.
Whilst the Retirement benefit plans continued Group establishes the assumptions on a consistent basis reflecting a Defined benefit plans advice from qualified actuaries, based on published indices and other For accounting purposes a valuation of each of the defined benefit actuarial data, management must apply judgement in selecting the most appropriate value from within an acceptable range.
plans is carried out annually at 31 March using independent qualified actuaries.
Benefit obligations are measured using the Changes in the assumptions used in determining the present value projected unit credit method and are discounted using the market of the benefit obligations will have an impact on the Groups income yields on high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the same statement through their effect on the service cost and the interest currency as, and of similar duration to, the benefit obligations.
Plan on the net deficit or surplus in the plans.
However, most of the impact assets are measured at their fair value at the period-end date.
of such changes, together with fluctuations in the actual return on Where a plan holds a qualifying insurance policy, the fair value of the plan assets, will be reflected in other comprehensive income.
the policy is deemed to be equivalent to the present value of the Impairment of non-financial assets related benefit obligations.
This accounting policy principally applies to Goodwill and other A deficit or surplus is recognised on each plan, representing the intangible assets: and Property, plant and equipment see Notes difference between the present value of the benefit obligation and 19 and 20 the fair value of the plan assets.
Where a plan is in surplus, the Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed surplus recognised is limited to the present value of any amounts that the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction for impairment whenever any events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
If such an indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the asset The costs of the defined benefit plan that are recognised in the is estimated.
In addition, goodwill is tested for impairment annually.
income statement include the current service cost, any past service cost and the interest on the net deficit or surplus.
Gains or losses An asset is impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds on curtailments or settlements of the plans are recognised in the its recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount represents income statement in the period in which the curtailment or the higher of the benefit which the entity expects to derive from the settlement occurs.
Plan administration costs incurred by the Group asset over its life, discounted to present value value in use and the are also recognised in the income statement.
net price for which the entity can sell the asset in the open market Current service cost represents the increase in the present value fair value less costs of disposal.
The discount rate used for the value in use calculation is a pre-tax rate that reflects the risks of the benefit obligation due to benefits accrued during the period, less employee contributions.
Past service cost represents the specific to the asset or groups of assets tested.
change in the present value of the benefit obligation that arises For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together from benefit changes that are applied retrospectively to benefits into the smallest group of assets which has cash inflows that are accrued in previous years.
Any past service cost is recognised in largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups full in the period in which the benefit changes are made.
This could also be a single asset.
Goodwill does not Interest on the net deficit or surplus is calculated by applying the generate cash inflows independently and is, therefore, tested for impairment at the level of the Cash Generating Unit CGU or discount rate that is used in measuring the present value of the benefit obligation to the deficit or surplus.
group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
Note 19 shows the allocation of material elements of goodwill to CGUs for impairment testing Re-measurements of the deficit or surplus are recognised in other purposes.
When goodwill is tested for impairment and the carrying comprehensive income.
Re-measurements comprise differences amount of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated between the actual return on plan assets less asset management exceeds its recoverable amount, the impairment is allocated first to expenses and the interest on the plan assets and actuarial gains reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then pro-rata to the and losses.
Actuarial gains and losses represent the effect of other non-financial assets belonging to the CGU or group of CGUs changes in the actuarial assumptions made in measuring the on the basis of their respective carrying amounts.
present value of the benefit obligation and experience differences between those assumptions and actual outcomes.
Actuarial gains Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for assets other and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the b Defined contribution plans estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
Such Contributions made by the Group to defined contribution pension reversals are limited to the carrying amount of the asset had no schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in impairment been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment which they fall due.
losses recognised in respect of goodwill cannot be reversed.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact At 31 March 2018, the present value of the benefit obligations of the operating profit.
In order to determine whether impairments plans was 1,612 million 2017 1,769 million, including are required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the 63 million 2017 76 million in respect of the unfunded medical asset.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash plans.
The present value of the benefit obligations is based on flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to actuarial estimates of the future benefits that will be payable to the incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount factor is members of the plans.
As such, the benefit obligations are based applied to obtain a present value value in use.
The fair value less on a number of assumptions, changes to which could have a costs of disposal of an asset may be used where this results in an material impact on the reported amounts.
amount in excess of value in use.
108 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 108 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key sources of estimation uncertainty Put options written by the Group over non-controlling interests are initially recognised as a liability measured at the present value of Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are based on managements expectations of future volumes and margins the exercise price with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the present value of the based on plans and best estimates of the productivity of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows exclude benefits from expected redemption amount and re-measured in accordance with IAS 39 at amortised cost, with changes recognised in the major expansion projects requiring future capital expenditure income statement.
where that expenditure has not been approved and committed on the dates the assets are tested except where a fair value less costs Goodwill arising in a business combination represents the excess of disposal model is used.
These estimates are particularly of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonsignificant for Tate & Lyle Sweden AB where the amount of controlling interest in the acquired business and, where a business headroom is relatively small.
combination is achieved in stages, the fair value at the acquisition date of the Groups previously held equity interest, over the net total Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate appropriate for the CGU being tested.
The discount rate is impacted by of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business at the acquisition date.
Any re-measurement gain or loss on the estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market and countryrelated risks.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital, which is previously held equity interest is recognised in the income statement.
Any shortfall, or negative goodwill, is recognised used as the initial reference point for the discount rate before any asset-specific adjustments are made, is reviewed on a regular immediately as a gain in the income statement.
If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions were to change Changes in the Groups ownership interest in a subsidiary that because of market conditions, the recoverable amount could be do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within equity.
different and could result in an asset impairment being increased Any gain or loss upon loss of control is recognised in the or, excepting goodwill, reversed, in part or in full, at a future date.
Critical accounting judgement b Subsidiaries In respect of Tate & Lyle Sweden AB formerly Biovelop, the Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over Groups Oat Beta Glucan plant, the impairment test resulted in a which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the low level of headroom compared to the carrying value.
The Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its recoverable amount is dependent on the ability to commercialise involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those certain co-product streams which remain under development.
returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are Management has been required to exercise significant judgement consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control.
in determining the value of future cash flows associated with these They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
A non-controlling interest in a subsidiary represents the share of 3.
Other principal accounting policies the net assets of the subsidiary that is attributable to the equity The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under interest in the subsidiary that is not owned by the Group.
the historical cost convention, modified in respect of the revaluation The Groups income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, derivative flows include those of each of its subsidiaries from the date on financial instruments, certain inventories, assets classified as held which the Company obtains control until such time as control is for sale, assets held by defined benefit pension plans and intangible lost.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains or and tangible assets acquired in a business combination.
losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Basis of consolidation c Equity accounted investments a Business combinations An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant A business combination is a transaction or other event in which the influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in Group obtains control over a business.
Business combinations are financial and operating policy decisions but not to control or jointly accounted for using the acquisition method, the key elements of control them.
A joint venture is an entity or a contractual arrangement under Identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business are which the Group and other parties undertake activities that are generally measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
subject to joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net Retirement benefit obligations and deferred tax assets and assets of the arrangement rather than to the arrangements assets liabilities are measured in accordance with the Groups or obligations for its liabilities.
Interests in associates and joint ventures together Equity Consideration transferred represents the sum of the fair values accounted investments are accounted for under the equity at the acquisition date of the assets given, liabilities incurred or method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange transaction costs.
Subsequently, the Groups share of the profit or for control over the acquired business.
Acquisition-related costs loss, other comprehensive income and net assets are shown on are charged to the income statement in the period in which they one line of the relevant primary financial statements, until the date are incurred.
on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
Any non-controlling interest in the acquired business is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the business.
com 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued In the cash flow statement, the cash flows of foreign operations 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued are translated into pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for Basis of consolidation continued the period.
c Equity accounted investments continued Revenue recognition Losses of an equity accounted investment in excess of the Groups This accounting policy relates to Notes 5 and 6 interest in the entity are not recognised, except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of a Sales of goods and services the investment.
Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration receivable in the ordinary course of business, net of value added and sales taxes, Unrealised profits or losses on transactions between the Group and rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
its equity accounted investments are eliminated to the extent of the Sales are recognised at the point or points at which the Group has Groups interest.
Losses are, however, recognised in full where performed its obligations in connection with the contractual terms they represent a reduction in the net realisable value of a current of the sales agreement, primarily at the point of delivering to the asset or an impairment loss.
customer, and at which time, in exchange it obtains the right to Discontinued operations consideration.
Discounts mainly comprise volume-driven rebates.
see Note 8 The Group accrues for discounts against agreed customer terms reflecting latest expectations of amounts likely to fall due under An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component of the the terms of the customer contract, subsequently adjusted for Group that: i has been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be actual performance.
classified as held for sale: and ii represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations or will be disposed of Where amounts are paid to customers in advance in order to obtain as part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major commercial rights, the resultant asset is amortised against line of business or geographic area of operations.
revenue in accordance with performance under the agreement.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of discontinued b Interest income operations are presented separately from those of continuing Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the operations.
Discontinued operations comprised the following: c Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment Eaststarch Morocco is established.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group reached a settlement with the Moroccan tax authorities over historical tax Exceptional items matters relating to the Groups former corn wet mill in Casablanca, This accounting policy principally relates to Note 7 Morocco.
This resulted in a net credit of 2 million.
Exceptional items comprise items of income, expense and cash Discontinued operations in the comparative year also related to the flow, including tax items, that are: material in amount, relate to Groups Moroccan subsidiary.
events which are unlikely to recur, are outside the normal course of business and therefore merit separate disclosure in order to Foreign currency translation provide a better understanding of the Group's underlying financial This accounting policy applies to all transactions and net assets in performance.
Examples of events that give rise to the disclosure of foreign currencies material items of income, expense and cash flow as exceptional At entity level, transactions in foreign currencies are translated into items include, but are not limited to: impairment events: significant the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the business transformation activities: disposals of operations or date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated significant individual assets: litigation claims by or against the in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at Group: and restructuring of components of the Groups operations.
Currency translation differences arising at For tax items to be treated as exceptional, amounts must be entity level are recognised in the income statement.
material and their treatment as exceptional enable a better The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are All material amounts relating to exceptional items in the Groups translated into pounds sterling at the average rate of exchange for financial statements are classified on a consistent basis across the period and their assets and liabilities are translated into pounds accounting periods.
sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the period-end date.
Currency translation differences arising on consolidation are Goodwill and other intangible assets recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the see Note 19 currency translation reserve.
a Goodwill Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign intangible asset and is allocated to the CGU or group of CGUs that is operation and translated accordingly.
expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
When a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually.
recognised in the income statement is determined after taking into Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
account the recycling of cumulative currency translation b Intangible assets other than goodwill differences arising on consolidation of the operation subsequent to Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at cost less the adoption of IFRS.
accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
110 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 110 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information c Intangible assets acquired in business combinations Leased assets An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is see Notes 20, 25, 29 and 33 recognised as an intangible asset at its fair value at the date Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group assumes of acquisition, if it is separable from the acquired business or arises substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified from contractual or legal rights.
Acquired intangible assets, for as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised example, patents and customer relationships, are amortised on a at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present straight-line basis over the periods of their expected benefit to the value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding lease Group, which range from three to 15 years.
commitments, net of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
d Other intangible assets Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest Other intangible assets mainly comprise certain capitalised costs components so that the interest element is charged to the income relating to product development, marketing, computer software statement over the period of the lease at a constant rate of interest.
and the global IS IT system.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to the Costs incurred on the development, design and testing of new or income statement, on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the improved products are capitalised only when the technical and lease term and their useful life.
commercial feasibility of the product has been established and All other leases are treated as operating leases.
The total amount prior to the product going into full production.
Research and other payable under the operating lease, including lease incentives and related expenditures are charged to the income statement in the guaranteed lease increases, is spread over the lease period on a period in which they are incurred.
Where termination or extension options are Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over available to the Group, management considers whether it is the periods of their expected benefit to the Group, which are in the reasonably certain of exercising these options in determining the range of three to ten years.
Capitalised costs in respect of the core lease period.
global IS IT system are being amortised over a period of five to Inventories seven years.
see Note 15 Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each period-end Corn and co-product inventories held in the US business are date and adjusted as appropriate, with any resulting changes measured at net realisable value since they are considered to be recognised in the income statement prospectively.
agricultural produce after harvest, in accordance with IAS 2.3.
Property, plant and equipment Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
see Note 20 All other inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites, realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where application laboratories and administrative facilities.
Plant and applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been machinery mainly comprise equipment used in the manufacturing incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and and operating process.
Assets in the course of construction condition and is calculated using the first in first out or weighted comprise property, plant and equipment which is in the process of average methods, appropriate to the materials and production being completed and not ready for use.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the Provisions are made for any slow moving, obsolete or defective items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying inventories.
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only Financial instruments when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with see Notes 16, 17, 18, 24, 25, 28 and 29 the expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs and maintenance expenditures a Trade receivables are charged to the income statement during the period in which Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is they are incurred.
generally the same as the invoiced amount, and subsequently measured at amortised cost, or their recoverable amount.
Trade Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to receivables are predominantly short-term and so the effects of allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its useful time-value of money are not considered material.
economic life as follows: Where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be Freehold land No depreciation able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years of the receivable, the receivable is considered to be impaired.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that Leasehold property Period of the lease the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and Plant and machinery 3 to 28 years default or delinquency in payments are considered to be objective Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each period-end evidence of impairment.
The amount of the impairment, and date and adjusted as appropriate, with any resulting changes related provision, is the difference between the receivables recognised in the income statement prospectively.
original value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the income statement.
com 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued f Derivative financial instruments 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its Financial instruments continued exposure to commodity price, currency exchange rate and interest a Trade receivables continued rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for The impairment is recognised in the income statement speculative purposes.
immediately, and the provision is netted against the value of the All derivative financial instruments held by the Group are receivable.
When a trade receivable is deemed uncollectable, it is recognised as assets or liabilities measured at their fair values at written off against the related provision.
As explained under Hedge accounting Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are below, unless and to the extent that a derivative is in a designated credited against operating expenses in the income statement in the and effective cash flow or net investment hedging relationship, fair period in which they are recovered.
value gains and losses on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
b Trade payables Trade payables are predominantly short-term and are initially Derivative financial instruments that are not in a designated recognised at fair value, which is generally the invoice amount.
The hedging relationship are classified as held for trading.
effects of time-value of money are not considered material.
g Embedded derivatives c Cash and cash equivalents Some contracts may include features that are similar to and expose Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at the Group to the same risks as standalone derivatives.
Where such call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with an embedded derivative is not closely related to the host contract original maturities of three months or less and, for the purposes of and where the host contract itself is not already recognised at fair the cash flow statement only, bank overdrafts where the legal right value, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract of offset exists.
and accounted as a standalone derivative.
The hedge accounting principles described below equally apply to embedded derivatives.
d Available-for-sale financial assets Equity instruments held by the Group are generally available-forh Offsetting financial instruments sale and are carried at fair value, with movements in fair value Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group does not amount presented in the statement of financial position only where trade equity instruments and does not manage them on a fair value there is a legally enforceable right to offset them and the Group basis.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the assets are intends to either settle them on a net basis or realise the asset and carried at cost.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset are recycled Hedge accounting through the income statement when the asset is disposed or see Notes 28 and 29 impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a As described in Note 29, the Group uses derivatives to mitigate risk.
security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the In many cases, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives are securities are impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the income recognised before the hedged risk affects the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for an statement.
For example, when the Group takes out a forward investment in an available-for-sale equity instrument are not foreign currency contract to fix the exchange rate on committed or reversed through profit or loss.
However, if the fair value of an highly probable future sales in a foreign currency, changes in the impaired available-for-sale debt security subsequently increases fair value of the forward foreign exchange contract will be and the increase can be related objectively to an event occurring recognised in the income statement immediately, whereas the after the impairment loss was recognised, then the impairment is future sale will not affect the income statement until it is made.
reversed through profit or loss.
This creates a mismatch in the timing of recognition for e Borrowings compensating gains and losses.
Hedge accounting seeks to Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction mitigate this mismatch by applying specific accounting rules, if costs incurred, which is generally the amount of proceeds received.
strict criteria are met, to the items that create the exposure to risk Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using and the items used to manage that risk.
the effective interest rate method, whereby the net proceeds are A hedging relationship principally consists of two items: the hedged gradually increased to the amount that will be ultimately settled item and the hedging instrument.
The hedged item is the using a constant rate of interest.
This constant rate of return is transaction or balance that exposes the Group to a risk that can be used to calculate the amount recognised as interest expense in the identified and the hedging instrument is the transaction or balance income statement.
that is used to manage the risk.
In the above example, the contract As explained under Hedge accounting see below, the carrying to sell goods at a future date in a foreign currency gives rise to amount of a borrowing may be adjusted where it is a hedged foreign currency transaction exposure for the Group.
As exchange liability in a fair value hedge.
rates change, the eventual proceeds from the future sale when expressed in the entitys functional currency will also change, Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group creating risk.
In this example, the foreign has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at currency exchange contract the Group takes out locks in a known least 12 months after the period-end date.
functional currency value for its foreign currency cash receipt and Dividends on preference shares that are classified as a liability are therefore eliminates the volatility in cash flows on the sale.
The recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
forward currency exchange contract is the hedging instrument.
112 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 112 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information For a hedging relationship to qualify for hedge accounting, it must be Share-based payments documented at inception together with the Groups risk management see Note 31 objective and strategy for initiating the hedge.
The hedge must both be The Company operates share-based compensation plans expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or under which it grants awards over its ordinary shares to its own fair value attributed to the hedged risk and actually be highly effective in employees and to those of its subsidiaries.
All of the awards doing so.
This relationship is demonstrated by matching the terms of granted under the existing plans are classified as equity-settled hedging instruments very closely to the hedged items, or where the awards.
The Group recognises a compensation expense based on Group uses more complex arrangements, by the use of statistical the fair value of the awards measured at the grant date using the methods that show the relationship between the hedging pairs.
Fair value is not subsequently There are three hedging models that apply to different types re-measured unless relevant conditions attaching to the award of transactions.
a Cash flow hedges Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all nonHedging relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the vesting conditions.
Adjustments are made to the compensation hedging instrument hedges exposure to variability in cash flows expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures due to failure to that are attributable either to a particular risk associated with a satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
recognised asset or liability such as interest payments on variable The resulting compensation expense is recognised in the income rate debt, a highly probable forecast transaction such as statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and a commodity purchases or the foreign currency risk in a firm corresponding credit is recognised in equity.
In the event of the commitment such as the purchase of an item of equipment.
cancellation of an award, whether by the Group or a participating Where a hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge, to employee, the compensation expense that would have been the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised the hedging instrument are recognised in other comprehensive immediately in the income statement.
income rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged Provisions and contingent liabilities item affects the income statement, the cumulative fair value gain or see Note 32 loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
When a hedged firm commitment results in A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount that is the recognition of a non-current asset, the initial carrying amount recognised when: 1 the Group has a present obligation legal or of the asset is adjusted for the cumulative fair value gain or loss.
constructive as a result of a past event: 2 it is more likely than not that a payment will be required to settle the obligation: and 3 the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or if the hedging amount can be reliably estimated.
relationship no longer meets the conditions for hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value gain or loss remains in equity until the Where a payment is not probable, or the amount of the obligation forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement.
If a cannot be measured with sufficient certainty, a contingent liability hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the is disclosed.
cumulative fair value gain or loss is immediately transferred to the Contingent liabilities are also disclosed if a possible obligation income statement.
arises from past events, but its existence will be confirmed only by b Net investment hedges the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events.
A net investment hedge is the hedge of the currency exposure on the Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future retranslation of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
payments using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Net investment hedges are accounted for similarly to cash flow market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are, to the extent that the hedge is effective, recognised in other any discount is recognised in the income statement within comprehensive income.
The impact of discounting is not material to the Group.
In the event that the foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative fair value gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is Provision is made for restructuring costs when a detailed formal transferred to the income statement where it is included in the gain plan for the restructuring has been determined and the plan has or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
been communicated to those affected by it.
Gains from the expected disposal of assets are not taken into account in c Fair value hedges measuring restructuring provisions.
Future operating losses Hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the are not provided for.
hedging instrument hedges the exposure to changes in the fair Provisions are recognised for onerous contracts to the extent value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a that the benefits expected to be derived from a contract are lower particular risk such as the fair value of fixed rate debt.
than the unavoidable cost to the Group of meeting its obligations Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, under the contract.
Before establishing the amount of the provision, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by any impairment losses on assets associated with the contract the change in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk only and are recognised.
the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it offsets the fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument.
com 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Classification and measurement 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued The Group expects to continue measuring at fair value all financial Assets held for sale assets currently held at fair value.
The Group intends to apply the see Note 8 option to present fair value changes in Other Comprehensive An asset or group of assets is classified as held for sale if its Income OCI for those equity shares currently held as availablecarrying amount will be principally recovered through a sale for-sale AFS and which are intended to be held for the foreseeable transaction rather than through continuing use in the business and future.
All other assets held as AFS are expected to be measured at the following conditions are met: fair value through profit or loss.
Any amounts held in OCI related to those other assets will be reclassified to retained earnings, the it is available for immediate sale in its present condition quantum of which is expected to be immaterial.
Trade receivables management has committed to, and has initiated, a plan to sell and other receivables are held to collect the principal amount in the asset: and line with the contractual arrangements.
As such, the Group has the sale is expected to complete within 12 months of the balance concluded that they meet the criteria for amortised cost sheet date, and must be highly probable.
This is consistent with the current basis of accounting.
Assets that are classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount when they were classified as held Impairment for sale and their fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss The Group will apply the simplified approach and record lifetime on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill and then, on a expected losses on all trade receivables.
The loss allowance to be pro-rata basis, to the remaining assets and liabilities other than recognised is not expected to be material.
inventories, financial instruments, investment property, employee Hedge accounting benefits and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in The Group determined that all existing hedge relationships that are accordance with the relevant Group accounting policies.
currently designated in effective hedging relationships will continue Impairment on the initial recognition of held for sale assets, and to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
As IFRS 9 does not gains or losses on subsequent re-measurement, are recognised in change the general principles of how an entity accounts for the income statement.
effective hedges, applying the hedging requirements of IFRS 9 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial Once classified as held for sale, property, plant and equipment and statements.
intangible assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
Equity accounted investments are no longer equity accounted when c IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 31 March 2020 classified as held for sale.
The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either operating or finance leases and introduces a single Accounting standards issued but not yet adopted accounting model, requiring the recognition of substantially The following new standards have been issued and are relevant to all current operating lease commitments on the statement of the Group, but were not effective for the financial year beginning financial position.
1 April 2017, and have not been adopted early: The Group is in the process of performing an impact assessment by a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective assessing all existing leases against the guidance contained in for the year ending 31 March 2019 IFRS 16.
Material judgements and estimates are required in The Group has undertaken a review of its commercial identifying and accounting for leases and determining the discount arrangements across all significant revenue streams and rate, as well as choosing the transition methodology.
The Group is geographies including assessing the timing of revenue recognition continuing to assess the impact of these judgements and as well as focusing on the accounting for principal and agency estimates, and based on current information, expects a material relationships, consignment stocks and discounts provided.
As a increase in both property, plant and equipment and associated result of the review, the Group has concluded that the adoption of lease obligations.
A quantification of the impact upon adoption will IFRS 15 is not expected to have a material impact on reported be included in the 31 March 2019 financial statements.
revenue or revenue growth rates.
d IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective b IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year ending for the year ending 31 March 2020, subject to EU endorsement 31 March 2019 The interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable The Group has reviewed the key areas of IFRS 9 and its activities in profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits these areas to ensure full compliance upon adoption.
The Group and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments has concluded that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a material under IAS 12.
The financial impact of this, together with any other impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
implications of this interpretation, will be assessed during the 2019 The review focused on all three aspects of IFRS 9: financial year.
No other new standards, new interpretations or amendments to standards or interpretations have been published which are expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
114 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 114 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures Income statement measures For the reasons set out in Note 1, the Group presents alternative performance measures including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share.
For the years presented, these alternative performance measures exclude, where relevant: exceptional items the amortisation of acquired intangible assets net retirement benefit interest tax on the above items and tax items that themselves meet these definitions.
Following the improved funding status of the Groups pension schemes, the Group no longer intends to exclude net retirement benefit interest from its alternative performance measures from the beginning of the 2019 financial year as the size of this adjustment is no longer expected to be material.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the key income statement alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable measures reported in accordance with IFRS: Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 IFRS Adjusting Adjusted IFRS Adjusting Adjusted m unless otherwise stated reported items reported reported items reported Continuing operations Sales 2 710 2 710 2 753 2 753 Operating profit 290 10 300 233 31 264 Net finance expense 32 5 27 32 7 25 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 28 32 32 Profit before tax 286 15 301 233 38 271 Income tax expense credit 23 43 66 22 71 49 Profit for the year 263 28 235 255 33 222 Basic earnings per share pence 57.0p 6.1p 50.9p 55.0p 7.2p 47.8p Diluted earnings per share pence 56.1p 6.0p 50.1p 54.2p 7.1p 47.1p Effective tax rate expense credit % 8.1% 21.9% 9.6% 18.2% The following table shows the reconciliation of the adjusting items impacting adjusted profit for the year in the current and comparative year: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Notes m m Continuing operations Exceptional gain loss in operating profit 7 2 19 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 12 12 Total excluded from adjusted operating profit 10 31 Net retirement benefit interest 11 5 7 Total excluded from adjusted profit before tax 15 38 Tax credit on adjusting items 12 5 6 Exceptional tax credits 7, 12 38 65 Total excluded from adjusted profit for the year 28 33 Cash flow alternative performance measures The Group also presents two alternative cash flow measures which are defined as follows: a Adjusted free cash flow represents cash generated from continuing operations, after net interest and tax paid, and capital expenditure and excluding the impact of exceptional items.
b Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations, adding back net interest and tax paid, retirement cash contributions, and excluding derivative and margin call movements within working capital.
com 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures continued Cash flow alternative performance measures continued The following table shows the reconciliation of these cash flow alternative performance measures: Year ended 31 March 2017 2018 m m Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 300 264 Adjusted for: Depreciation and adjusted amortisation 142 137 Share-based payments charge 15 21 Changes in working capital and other non-cash movements 36 4 Net retirement benefit obligations 94 36 Less: accelerated US defined benefit schemes contribution exceptional cash flows 56 Net retirement benefit obligations: underlying funding 38 36 Capital expenditure 131 153 Net interest and tax paid 36 63 Less: cash tax benefit on accelerated contribution exceptional cash flows 20 Net interest and tax paid: underlying 56 63 Adjusted free cash flow 196 174 Add back: net interest and tax paid excluding exceptional cash flows 56 63 Add back: net retirement underlying cash contributions 44 42 Less: derivatives and margin call movements within changes in working capital 3 6 Adjusted operating cash flow 299 273 Other performance measures The Group presents certain financial measures as defined in its external financial covenants as well as return on capital employed ROCE as Key Performance Indicators.
Net debt to EBITDA and interest cover are defined under the Groups financial covenants and are required to be reported on a proportionate consolidation basis.
For financial covenant purposes these ratios are calculated based on the accounting standards that applied for the 2014 financial year, with new accounting standards adopted by the Group subsequent to 1 April 2014 disregarded.
Net debt is calculated using average currency exchange rates.
Average invested operating capital represents the average at the beginning and end of the year of goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, working capital, provisions, non-debt derivatives and other assets.
All ratios are calculated based on unrounded figures in million.
The following tables present the calculation of these alternative measures: 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m Calculation of net debt to EBITDA ratio on a financial covenant basis Net debt 27 392 452 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect use of average exchange rates in translating net debt and proportionate consolidation 25 13 Net debt on a financial covenant basis 417 439 Adjusted operating profit 300 264 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation 44 48 to exclude charges for share-based payments 15 21 to add back depreciation and adjusted amortisation 142 137 deduction for other finance costs 2 Pre-exceptional EBITDA on a financial covenant basis 499 470 Net debt to EBITDA ratio times 0.8 0.9 116 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 116 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures continued Other performance measures continued 31 March 2018 2017 m m Calculation of interest cover ratio on a financial covenant basis Adjusted operating profit 300 264 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation 39 43 to exclude charges for share-based payments 15 21 deduction for other finance costs 2 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets on a financial covenant basis 352 328 Adjusted net finance expense 27 25 Less: Other finance costs 2 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation and other adjustments 1 1 Net finance expense on a financial covenant basis 24 24 Interest cover ratio times 14.6 13.9 31 March 2018 2017 2016 m m m Calculation of return on capital employed Adjusted operating profit 300 264 Add back amortisation on acquired intangible assets 12 12 Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items from continuing operations for ROCE 288 252 Goodwill and other intangible assets 360 401 390 Property, plant and equipment 965 1 061 926 Working capital, provisions and non-debt derivatives 385 394 323 Other 29 Invested operating capital of continuing operations 1 710 1 856 1 668 Average invested operating capital 1 783 1 762 Return on capital employed ROCE % 16.2 14.3 5.
Segment information Segment information is presented on a basis consistent with the information presented to the Board the designated Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
As described on page 37, continuing operations now comprise three reportable segments: Food & Beverage Solutions, Sucralose which together made up the Speciality Food Ingredients segment in the prior year and Primary Products Bulk Ingredients segment in the prior year.
This change was made to reflect the different economic characteristics of these products, and reflects the way in which information on the Groups performance is presented to the Board.
Central, which comprises central costs including head office, treasury and reinsurance activities, does not meet the definition of an operating segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments but is included in order to be consistent with the presentation of segment information presented to the Board.
The segments are served by a single manufacturing network, and receive services from a number of global support functions.
The segmental allocation of costs is performed using standard product costs to allocate all direct costs including manufacturing facility-based depreciation and allocation keys for all indirect costs including share-based payments and amortisation consistently applied over time.
com 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment information continued The Board uses adjusted operating profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before specific items that are considered to hinder comparison of the trading performance of the Groups businesses year on year.
During the years presented, the items excluded from operating profit in arriving at adjusted operating profit were the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items.
The segmental classification of exceptional items is detailed in Note 7.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board but it does receive segmental analysis of net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
Accordingly, the amounts presented for segment assets and segment liabilities in the tables below represent those assets and liabilities that comprise elements of net working capital.
The segmental split of working capital allocates raw material and co-product inventories, and associated payables, based on the segmental split of primary capacity.
Other payables, work in progress and finished goods inventories and receivables are allocated based on the products to which they relate.
The segment results were as follows: a Segment sales Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m Food & Beverage Solutions 850 834 Sucralose 146 162 Primary Products 1 714 1 757 Sales continuing operations 2 710 2 753 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 Sales total operations 2 710 2 756 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show sales for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 996 million 2017 996 million.
Primary Products was renamed from Bulk Ingredients in the year.
b Segment results Adjusted operating profit, as defined in Notes 1 and 4, is the measure of profitability of the Groups businesses used by the Board as it is considered to be the best measure to compare the results over time.
Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Notes m m 137 129 Food & Beverage Solutions 55 52 Sucralose 166 129 Primary Products 58 46 Central Adjusted operating profit continuing operations 300 264 Adjusting items: exceptional items 7 2 19 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 12 12 290 233 Operating profit continuing operations 11 2 2 Finance income 11 34 34 Finance expense 21 28 32 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 286 233 Profit before tax continuing operations 1 Profit before tax discontinued operations 286 234 Profit before tax total operations Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
118 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 118 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 5.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 % m Adjusted operating margin Food & Beverage Solutions 16.1% 15.5% Sucralose 37.7% 32.1% Primary Products 9.7% 7.3% Central n a n a Total continuing operations 11.1% 9.6% Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show adjusted operating profit for the year ended 31 March 2018 of 192 million 2017 181 million and an adjusted operating margin of 19.3% 2017 18.2%.
c Segment assets liabilities Segment assets and segment liabilities include net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board.
At 31 March 2018 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Food & Beverage Solutions 287 133 154 Sucralose 62 9 53 Primary Products 357 145 212 Central 10 35 25 Group working capital continuing and total operations 716 322 394 Other assets liabilities 1 855 882 973 Group assets liabilities 2 571 1 204 1 367 At 31 March 2017 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Food & Beverage Solutions 307 122 185 Sucralose 64 7 57 Primary Products 349 146 203 Central 13 50 37 Group working capital continuing and total operations 733 325 408 Other assets liabilities 2 038 1 114 924 Group assets liabilities 2 771 1 439 1 332 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show net working capital assets of 349 million 2017 371 million and net working capital liabilities of 142 million 2017 129 million.
com 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment information continued d Other information depreciation Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Food & Beverage Solutions 38 36 Sucralose 9 9 Primary Products 66 63 Central 1 1 Depreciation continuing operations 114 109 Depreciation total operations 114 109 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show depreciation of 47 million 2017 45 million.
e Other information amortisation Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Food & Beverage Solutions 30 30 Sucralose Primary Products 9 9 Central 1 1 Amortisation continuing operations 40 40 Amortisation total operations 40 40 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show amortisation of 30 million 2017 30 million.
f Other information share-based payments Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Food & Beverage Solutions 3 6 Sucralose 1 1 Primary Products 4 6 Central 7 8 Share-based payments continuing operations 15 21 Share-based payments total operations 15 21 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show share-based payments of 4 million 2017 7 million.
120 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 120 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 5.
Segment information continued g Other information capital investment Capital investment comprises the cost of acquisition of businesses and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including amounts accrued and investments.
Capital investment is allocated based on the product s to which the investment relates.
Where capital expenditure relates to plant sustaining or cost reduction projects, the cost is allocated based on the segmental split of the product mix by plant.
Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Food & Beverage Solutions 51 60 Sucralose 4 6 Primary Products 67 73 Central 19 19 Capital investment continuing operations 141 158 Capital investment total operations 141 158 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
If the above segmental information were presented on a basis consistent with the prior year, Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose would be combined as Speciality Food Ingredients to show capital investment of 55 million 2017 66 million.
h Geographical information sales by destination Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m United Kingdom 39 34 United States 1 902 2 057 Other European countries 312 306 Rest of the world 457 356 Sales continuing operations 2 710 2 753 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 Sales total operations 2 710 2 756 i Geographical information sales by origin Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m United Kingdom 45 37 United States 2 128 2 173 Other European countries 342 335 Rest of the world 195 208 Sales continuing operations 2 710 2 753 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 Sales total operations 2 710 2 756 j Concentration of revenue During the year ended 31 March 2018, no customer contributed more than 10% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations 2017 no customer contributed more than 10%.
com 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment information continued k Geographical information location of non-current assets The Parent Company is based in the United Kingdom.
The location of non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefits are as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m United Kingdom 17 20 United States 965 1 088 Other European countries 331 343 Rest of the world 100 108 Non-current assets 1 413 1 559 6.
Operating profit Analysis of operating expenses by nature: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m External sales 2 710 2 753 Operating expenses Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 1 362 1 449 Staff costs of which 151 million 2017 153 million was included in cost of sales 10 336 328 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets of which 104 million 2017 99 million was included in cost of sales 20 113 106 leased assets included in cost of sales 20 1 3 Exceptional gain loss 7 2 19 Amortisation of intangible assets: acquired intangible assets 19 12 12 other intangible assets 19 28 28 Operating lease rentals 35 32 Impairment of trade receivables 17 1 5 Impairment of intangible assets non-exceptional items 19 1 5 Other operating expenses 533 533 Total operating expenses 2 420 2 520 Operating profit 290 233 Research and development expenditure totalling 35 million 2017 37 million was included within amounts above.
122 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 122 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Footnotes m m Continuing operations Tate & Lyle Ventures gain on disposals a 2 3 Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs b 5 Asset impairments and related costs c 26 US retirement benefit obligation settlement gain d 9 Exceptional items continuing operations 2 19 Discontinued operations Business re-alignment Eaststarch Morocco disposals e 1 Exceptional items discontinued operations 1 Exceptional items total operations 2 18 In addition, the following exceptional tax items were recognised in the current and comparative year: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Footnotes m m Continuing operations US tax adjustments f 36 31 UK tax adjustments g 2 34 Exceptional tax credit continuing operations 38 65 Discontinued operations Moroccan tax matters h 2 Exceptional tax credit discontinued operations 2 Exceptional tax credit total operations 40 65 Continuing operations within operating profit a In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised a 2 million cash gain, in respect of the disposal of an investment held as part of its venture fund portfolio, previously classified as an available-for-sale financial asset.
This gain was classified within central costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 3 million cash gain, primarily in respect of deferred consideration received following disposal of part of its venture fund portfolio.
This profit was classified within central costs.
b In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group paid cash of 2 million to utilise remaining provisions in respect of the business re-alignment of Sucralose and its European operations, but recognised no charges in this respect during the year.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a net 5 million charge 6 million of cash costs offset by a 1 million non-cash credit in respect of the business re-alignment of Sucralose and its European operations.
Cash payments in respect of this re-alignment were 21 million.
The net 5 million charge was recognised within the Sucralose segment.
c In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a net 13 million exceptional charge in respect of its Brazilian Food Systems business, Gemacom Tech Indstria E Comrcio S. A. reflecting a partial impairment of goodwill offset by lower contingent consideration now expected to fall due.
The net charge was recognised within the Food & Beverage Solutions segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 7 million charge for the disposal of its equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, its Food Systems subsidiary in China.
Cash payments for costs totalled 3 million.
This charge was recognised within the Food & Beverage Solutions segment.
Also recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017 was a non-cash charge of 6 million in respect of the impairment of certain redundant assets at our Decatur facility in the US.
The charge was recognised within the Primary Products segment.
d In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 9 million non-cash gain in respect of the settlement of certain elements of its US retirement benefit plan obligations.
The exceptional gain was recognised within the Primary Products segment 6 million and the Food & Beverage Solutions segment 3 million.
There was no net tax on continuing exceptional items in either the current or comparative year.
Tax credits charges on exceptional items are only recognised to the extent that gains losses incurred are expected to result in tax recoverable payable in the future.
com 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Exceptional items continued Discontinued operations within operating profit e On 1 June 2016, the Group completed the sale of its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to ADM, receiving gross cash proceeds of 4 million.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, following completion of this disposal, the Group recognised a 1 million exceptional gain resulting from the recycling of cumulative foreign exchange translation gains from reserves to the income statement.
This non-cash gain was recognised within the Primary Products segment.
There was no tax on discontinued exceptional items in either the current or comparative year.
Continuing operations exceptional taxation items f In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised an exceptional tax credit of 36 million, principally reflecting the revaluation downwards of net US deferred tax liabilities following the reduction in the US federal corporation tax rate from 1 January 2018.
US deferred tax liabilities primarily comprise amounts arising from accelerated tax depreciation on assets.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, following the transfer at fair value of its sucralose intellectual property assets from the UK to the US, the Group recognised an exceptional deferred tax credit of 31 million, reflecting the anticipated future tax benefits.
g In the year ended 31 March 2018, two significant changes drove an exceptional net credit of 2 million resulting from the increase in UK deferred tax assets: i. UK legislation to limit to 50% the utilisation of brought-forward losses was enacted during the second half of the 2018 financial year, resulting in a 16 million write down of the previous deferred tax asset recognised in relation to the Groups internal financing arrangements.
Anticipated changes to the Groups internal financing arrangements, enabled by amendments to US tax legislation, led to the recognition of an increase in the deferred tax asset of 18 million.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, following changes in UK tax legislation arising from the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and changes to the internal financing arrangements we use to fund our international businesses, the Group recognised an exceptional deferred tax credit of 34 million, reflecting previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK, which, based on enacted legislation at the time, were expected to be utilised against future UK taxable profits.
Discontinued operations exceptional taxation items h In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised an exceptional tax gain of 2 million following settlement with the Moroccan tax authorities of historical matters relating to the Groups former Moroccan subsidiary.
The Group made a payment of 1 million in respect of this matter during the 2018 financial year.
This subsidiary was sold, as part of a broader transaction, to ADM on 1 June 2016.
Exceptional cash flows Net cash outflows on exceptional items were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Continuing operations Footnotes m m Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs b 2 21 Asset impairment and related costs c 3 Net cash outflows exceptional items 2 24 Income statement gain loss included in profit before tax 2 19 Adjustment for exceptional income statement items per statement of cash flows 4 5 Accelerated US defined benefit schemes contribution exceptional cash flows 56 Cash tax benefit on accelerated contribution exceptional cash flows 20 Adjustment for exceptional cash flows i 36 i In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group made an accelerated cash contribution of 56 million into the US defined benefit pension schemes against which the Group received a cash tax benefit of 20 million leading to an overall cash outflow of 36 million.
This cash contribution was incremental to the ongoing annual scheme payments.
In addition, in the year ended 31 March 2018, there were exceptional cash flows relating to the sale of assets from the Groups venture fund portfolio totalling 2 million 2017 2 million recognised within cash from investing activities.
124 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 124 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 8.
Discontinued operations The discontinued operations of the Group are disclosed and discussed further in Note 3.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the Consolidated income statement were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Discontinued operations Eaststarch Morocco Notes m m Sales 5 3 Operating profit including exceptional items 1 Profit for the year discontinued operations 2 1 Basic and diluted earnings per share pence discontinued operations 13 0.4p 0.2p During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised an exceptional tax gain of 2 million following settlement with the Moroccan tax authorities of historical matters relating to the Groups former Moroccan subsidiary.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group received gross cash proceeds of 4 million in relation to this sale to ADM and recognised a 1 million exceptional gain see Note 7.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated statement of cash flows were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Discontinued operations Eaststarch Morocco m m Profit before tax from discontinued operations 1 Adjustment for: Exceptional items and changes in working capital 1 4 Cash used in discontinued operations 1 3 9.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys external auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.6 1.7 audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 other non-audit services 0.1 2.4 2.6 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Total 2.5 2.7 The audit and non-audit fees related to joint ventures payable to  LLP and its associates, excluded from the table above, were 0.1 million 2017 0.1 million and nil 2017 nil respectively.
com 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Staff costs Staff costs were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 282 275 Social security costs 25 22 Other pension costs: defined benefit pension schemes 3 2 defined contribution pension schemes 10 7 Retirement medical benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 15 21 Total 336 328 The average number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries, including part-time employees, is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 By reportable segment Continuing operations Food & Beverage Solutions 1 811 1 843 Sucralose 90 88 Primary Products 1 754 1 731 Central 534 489 Total 4 189 4 151 Restated to reflect the change in reportable segments made in the 2018 financial year.
The Food & Beverage Solutions division operates with a single commercial team.
It is not practicable to split this team between the two segments comprising this division, and therefore the entire headcount of this team has been included within the Food & Beverage Solutions segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, there were no employees 2017 average number of employees 15 within discontinued operations.
At 31 March 2018, the Group employed 4,192 2017 4,146 people all within continuing operations.
The Groups three reportable segments are supported by Global Operations, which is responsible for running the Groups manufacturing facilities.
The Group allocates the headcount of the Global Operations team to segments based on the split of primary capacity at each location.
Central includes sharedservice employees who perform activities for the whole Group, including the Food & Beverage Solutions, Sucralose and Primary Products segments.
Key management compensation Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 10 11 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 6 9 Total 17 21 Key management is represented by the Executive Committee and the Companys Directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 89.
Members of the Executive Committee are identified on pages 16 and 17.
The aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options were 7 million 2017 4 million.
126 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 126 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 11.
Finance income and expense Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Continuing operations Note m m Net finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 27 25 Fair value hedges: fair value loss on interest rate derivatives 6 4 fair value adjustment of hedged borrowings 6 4 Finance lease interest 1 1 Net retirement benefit interest 30 5 7 Unwinding of discount on liabilities 1 1 Finance expense 34 34 Finance income 2 2 Net finance expense 32 32 Reconciliation to adjusted net finance expense Notes m m Net finance expense 32 32 Net retirement benefit interest 30 5 7 Adjusted net finance expense continuing operations 4 27 25 Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs capitalised within property, plant and equipment of nil 2017 2 million at a capitalisation rate of 3.9% 2017 3.8%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2017 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Finance income and finance expense relate wholly to continuing operations.
Income taxes Analysis of charge for the year continuing operations Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Current tax: United Kingdom 9 Overseas 45 23 54 23 Deferred tax: Credit for the year 31 45 Income tax expense credit continuing operations 23 22 For the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017, there were no adjustments in respect of previous years for current or deferred tax.
Notes m m Reconciliation to adjusted income tax expense Income tax expense credit 23 22 Taxation on exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and net retirement benefit interest 5 6 Exceptional US tax credit 7 36 31 Exceptional UK tax credit 7 2 34 Adjusted income tax expense continuing operations 4 66 49 The Groups adjusted effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the adjusted income tax expense of 66 million 2017 49 million as a proportion of adjusted profit before tax of 301 million 2017 271 million was 21.9% 2017 18.2%.
The Groups statutory effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the reported income tax expense of 23 million 2017 credit of 22 million as a proportion of profit before tax of 286 million 2017 233 million was 8.1% 2017 credit of 9.6%.
com 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued In the year to 31 March 2018, the Group recognised exceptional tax gains totalling 38 million, comprising two items: firstly, a credit of 36 million predominantly reflecting the revaluation downwards of net US deferred tax liabilities following the reduction in the US federal tax rate: and secondly a net credit of 2 million following an increase in UK deferred tax assets.
This resulted from: changes to UK legislation limiting to 50% the utilisation of brought-forward losses, resulting in a 16 million write down of the previous deferred tax asset: and anticipated changes to the Groups internal financing arrangements, enabled by amendments to US tax legislation, resulting in an increase of 18 million in the deferred tax asset.
In the comparative year, the Group recognised tax credits totalling 65 million.
Further details can be found in Note 7.
The Groups adjusted income tax charge of 66 million 2017 49 million is stated before the exceptional tax credits above, and the tax impact of the adjustments made between reported and adjusted profit before tax being adjustments for amortisation of acquired intangibles, exceptional items in operating profit and net retirement benefit interest.
The adjusted effective tax rate increased as a result of changes to the UK tax legislation and consequent changes to our internal financing arrangements and an increase in profits from the US, a jurisdiction with higher rates of corporation tax during the year.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK reduced from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and is expected to reduce from 19% to 17% with effect from 1 April 2020.
The Group tax charge in future years is expected to benefit modestly from US Tax Reforms, which came into effect from 1 January 2018.
Further changes in tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could have a material impact on the Groups tax charge and or the amount of deferred tax recognised in future accounting periods.
The Group recognised a tax charge in the UK in the year of 9 million 2017 nil, as current year taxable income exceeded costs, together with brought-forward losses.
The remaining UK losses have been treated as partially recoverable in future periods, as reflected in the deferred tax asset booked for the year see page 130.
At 31 March 2018, the carrying value of current tax assets totalled 1 million 2017 1 million and the carrying value of the current tax liabilities totalled 57 million 2017 57 million.
An analysis of tax charged or credited on adjusting items and exceptional tax items within continuing operations is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 Tax charge Tax charge credit credit Pre-tax Pre-tax Notes m m m m Exceptional items Tate & Lyle Ventures disposal gain 2 3 Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs 5 1 Asset reversals impairments and related costs 26 2 US retirement benefit obligation settlement gain 9 3 Exceptional items 2 19 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12 3 12 3 Net retirement benefit interest 5 2 7 3 Adjusting items 4 15 5 38 6 Exceptional deferred tax items Exceptional US tax credit 36 31 Exceptional UK tax credit 2 34 Exceptional deferred tax items 4, 7 38 65 Total continuing operations 4 15 43 38 71 128 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 128 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 12.
Income taxes continued Reconciliation of the effective tax rate As the Groups head office and parent company are domiciled in the UK, the Group uses the UK corporation tax rate to reference its effective tax rate, notwithstanding that only a small proportion of the Groups business is in the UK.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Profit before tax 286 233 Less share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 28 32 Parent Company and subsidiaries profit before tax 258 201 Corporation tax charge thereon at 19% 2017 20% 49 40 Adjusted for the effects of: non-deductible expenses and other permanent items 2 impairment of assets not deductible 5 sale of investments not taxable 1 1 manufacturing credits 1 6 2 losses not currently treated as being recoverable in future periods 2 4 losses previously considered irrecoverable, now expected to be recoverable 3 3 exceptional tax credits 38 65 4 tax rates above the UK rate applied on overseas earnings 9 4 Total tax charge credit continuing operations 23 22 1 The Group benefits from certain tax incentives available to manufacturing companies.
2 The Group incurs expenses in jurisdictions where it does not currently expect to be able to recover these amounts against future taxable profits.
This has the effect of increasing the Groups overall effective tax rate.
3 Changes in UK and US tax legislation led to exceptional tax credits totalling 38 million which included a 3 million current tax charge See Note 7.
4 The Group is subject to tax rates in the jurisdictions in which it operates which are above the UK corporation tax rate the Groups reference rate leading to an increase in total tax charge.
The Groups tax rate is favourably impacted by its internal financing arrangements which involve borrowing by its operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
This financing benefit was materially reduced following UK legislation changes.
Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate: 1.
Tax Reforms US Tax Reforms, effective 1 January 2018, have reduced the US federal tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Further changes to tax legislation, in the US or in other jurisdictions in which the Group operates, could materially impact the effective tax rate in the future.
The Group operates internal financing arrangements which involve borrowing by our operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
These arrangements could be affected by further tax reforms in future periods impacting the Groups effective tax rate.
The timing of recognising tax benefits from brought-forward losses in the UK Legislative changes in the UK have been enacted which restrict the utilisation of brought-forward losses by 50% which has led to a significant taxation charge in the Groups income statement.
The extent of UK taxable profits utilised in subsequent years may be subject to variability, impacting the Group's tax charge.
Material changes in the geographic mix of profits The Groups effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and reflects a combination of higher rates in certain jurisdictions such as the US, lower effective rates in the UK due to the availability of losses and rates that lie somewhere in between.
If the geographic mix of profits were to change materially, through changes in the composition of the Groups business or changes in performance, our tax rate could change materially.
com 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate continued: 4.
Resolution of tax judgements arising from current or future tax issues At any one time, the Group can be subject to a number of challenges by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The outcome of these challenges is inherently uncertain, potentially resulting in a different tax charge from the amounts initially provided.
At 31 March 2018, the Group carried a central provision in current tax payables in respect of uncertain tax positions within its continuing operations totalling 29 million 2017 34 million.
Based on all substantively enacted legislation, the Group believes that no reasonably possible change in assumptions would lead to a material change in this number.
Exceptional tax credits In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised exceptional tax credits totalling 38 million 2017 65 million in respect of recent changes to UK and US tax legislation and the Groups internal financing arrangements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on differences between the accounting value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax values.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year were as follows: Capital allowances in Retirement Shareexcess of benefit based 1 depreciation obligations payments Tax losses Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2016 134 83 2 6 25 18 Charged credited to the income statement underlying 11 6 2 5 20 exceptional 34 31 65 Charged to other comprehensive income 30 30 Credited directly to equity 3 3 Currency translation differences 24 17 4 3 At 31 March 2017 169 64 7 40 55 3 Charged credited to the income statement underlying 2 4 5 7 10 exceptional 52 1 4 8 41 Charged to other comprehensive income 60 60 Charged directly to equity 3 3 Currency translation differences 18 9 1 8 At 31 March 2018 101 4 30 32 35 1 During the prior year the Group rationalised ownership of its Sucralose IP to align it with the underlying US manufacturing base.
This resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset of 31 million.
Other deferred tax items include temporary differences arising from accounting provisions, where the timing of the tax deduction is different from the timing of accounting recognition, and business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to net settle the balances.
After taking these offsets into account, the net position of 35 million liability 2017 3 million liability is presented as a 7 million deferred tax asset 2017 22 million asset and a 42 million deferred tax liability 2017 25 million liability in the Groups statement of financial position.
Other than changes as a result of US Tax Reforms see previous page, changes in enacted tax rates had no effect on the amount of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income or equity.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses of 556 million 2017 508 million as there is uncertainty as to whether taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered, will be available.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31 March 2018.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 1 million 2017 3 million of which nil 2017 2 million has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the full amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of certain of these temporary differences and it is not probable that they will reverse in the foreseeable future.
130 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 130 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 12.
Income taxes continued Discontinued operations An exceptional income tax credit of 2 million was recognised in the year ended 31 March 2018 2017 nil in respect of discontinued operations see Note 8.
This credit related to historical tax matters at the Moroccan facility, which the Group sold to ADM during the 2017 financial year.
Tax on other comprehensive income The following table sets out the tax arising on components of other comprehensive income: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Retirement benefit obligations 60 30 Deferred tax credit relating to components of other comprehensive income 60 30 Retirement benefit obligations 27 Current tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 27 Total tax on other comprehensive income 33 30 Tax on items recognised directly in equity A deferred tax charge of 3 million, in relation to share-based payments, was recognised directly in equity 2017 3 million credit.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding an average of 6 million shares 2017 4 million shares held by the Company and the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue assuming conversion of potentially dilutive ordinary shares, reflecting vesting assumptions on employee share plans, as well as the profit attributable to owners of the Company for any proceeds on such conversions.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares arise from awards made under the Groups sharebased incentive plans.
Where the vesting of these awards is contingent on satisfying a service or performance condition, the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is calculated based on the status of the condition at the end of the period.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares are dilutive only when the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year exceeds their exercise price options or issue price other awards.
Otherwise, the effect of exercising such options or awards would be to increase the earnings per share rather than to dilute.
The greater any such excess, the greater the dilutive effect.
The average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 676p 2017 695p.
The dilutive effect of share-based incentives was 7.7 million shares 2017 7.1 million shares.
Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations Profit attributable to owners of the Company million 263 2 265 255 1 256 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million basic 462.3 462.3 462.3 464.1 464.1 464.1 Basic earnings per share pence 57.0p 0.4p 57.4p 55.0p 0.2p 55.2p Weighted average number of ordinary shares million diluted 470.0 470.0 470.0 471.2 471.2 471.2 Diluted earnings per share pence 56.1p 0.4p 56.5p 54.2p 0.2p 54.4p www.
com 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted earnings per share A reconciliation between profit attributable to owners of the Company from continuing operations and the equivalent adjusted metric, together with the resulting adjusted earnings per share metrics can be found below: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the Company 263 255 Adjusting items: exceptional gain loss 7 2 19 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 12 12 net retirement benefit interest 11, 30 5 7 tax effect of the above adjustments 12 5 6 exceptional tax credits 7, 12 38 65 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 4 235 222 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence continuing operations 50.9p 47.8p Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence continuing operations 50.1p 47.1p 14.
Dividends on ordinary shares Dividends on ordinary shares in respect of the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Pence Pence Per ordinary share: interim dividend paid 8.4 8.2 final dividend proposed 20.3 19.8 Total dividend 28.7 28.0 The Directors propose a final dividend for the financial year of 20.3p per ordinary share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 1 August 2018 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 22 June 2018.
Dividends on ordinary shares paid in the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Final dividend paid relating to the prior financial year 92 92 Interim dividend paid relating to the financial year 39 38 Total dividend paid 131 130 Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 March 2018 and the proposed amount, the final dividend for the financial year is expected to amount to 94 million.
Inventories At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Raw materials and consumables 201 206 Work in progress 17 19 Finished goods 201 216 Total 419 441 Finished goods inventories of 1 million 2017 4 million are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Agricultural produce after harvest of 103 million 2017 103 million is carried at net realisable value.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group recognised a write down of inventories totalling 3 million 2017 6 million, which relates to the normal course of business and is included in the cost of inventories.
132 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 132 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 16.
Cash and cash equivalents At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 190 261 Total 190 261 The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US dollar 161 226 Euro 16 12 Sterling 4 2 Other 9 21 Total 190 261 17.
Trade and other receivables At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 280 264 Less provision for doubtful debts 14 14 Trade receivables net 266 250 Prepayments and accrued income 16 15 Margin deposits 1 3 Other receivables 11 23 Total 294 291 The amounts above do not include non-current other receivables of 3 million 2017 1 million.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US dollar 201 184 Euro 40 46 Sterling 14 12 Other 42 50 Total 297 292 During the year, the Group recognised impairments or write offs of receivables totalling 1 million 2017 5 million.
At 31 March 2018, trade receivables of 18 million 2017 7 million were past due but not impaired because they were considered to be collectible.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables was as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Up to 30 days past due 14 6 13 months past due 3 1 Over 3 months past due 1 Total 18 7 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing but interest may be charged to customers on overdue amounts.
com 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise 37 million 2017 30 million of unlisted securities.
These available-for-sale financial assets are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Note m At 1 April 2016 23 Year ended 31 March 2017: Additions 4 Disposals 2 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 30 2 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2017 30 Year ended 31 March 2018: Additions 8 Revaluations 3 Disposals 2 Impairment 1 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 30 2 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2018 37 The carrying value of available-for-sale financial assets was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US dollar 31 25 Sterling 2 2 Euro 4 3 Total 37 30 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets 37 30 Current assets Total 37 30 134 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 134 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other Patents and Other acquired Total acquired intangible Goodwill other IP intangibles intangibles assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2017 229 41 166 436 254 690 Additions at cost 20 20 Currency translation differences 11 1 1 13 20 33 At 31 March 2018 218 40 165 423 254 677 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2017 17 37 112 166 123 289 Impairment charge 1 1 Amortisation charge 1 11 12 28 40 Currency translation differences 3 3 6 7 13 At 31 March 2018 14 38 120 172 145 317 Net book value at 31 March 2018 204 2 45 251 109 360 Cost At 1 April 2016 204 40 150 394 204 598 Re-measurement of acquisition 1 1 1 Additions at cost 26 26 Disposals and write offs 2 2 1 3 Currency translation differences 26 1 16 43 25 68 At 31 March 2017 229 41 166 436 254 690 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 35 91 126 82 208 Impairment charge 18 18 5 23 Disposals and write offs 2 2 2 Amortisation charge 2 10 12 28 40 Currency translation differences 1 11 12 8 20 At 31 March 2017 17 37 112 166 123 289 Net book value at 31 March 2017 212 4 54 270 131 401 Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Allocated by geographical area United States 72 74 Europe 109 181 74 Allocated by reportable segment Food & Beverage Solutions 21 136 Primary Products 2 2 23 138 Total 204 212 www.
com 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued i Impairment tests carried out during the year The Group operates principally as an integrated manufacturing network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants servicing both the Food & Beverage Solutions and Primary Products segments.
Goodwill is therefore tested for impairment on a geographical basis, except where it can be allocated to a specific CGU.
During the year, the Group has integrated its Food Systems business into the core Speciality Food Ingredients business now together Food & Beverage Solutions to drive synergies in commercial strategy, commercial organisation and enabling infrastructure and organisation.
As a result of this re-organisation, management considers that goodwill in relation to Food Systems businesses should no longer be tested separately but should be tested at a geographical level.
A description of the impairment tests conducted in relation to the most significant goodwill amounts are set out as follows.
In each case, the recoverable amount was calculated based on value in use, with the exception of the European business, the Latin American Food & Beverage Solutions operations and Tate & Lyle Sweden AB.
Value in use was calculated based on budgets and plans covering the next five years that have been reviewed by the Board.
Cash flows were projected during the five-year period based on budgeted operating profit and managements expectations of market developments.
Beyond the five-year plan, cash flows were generally assumed to grow at the long-term growth rate for the relevant geographical markets based on forecasts included in industry reports.
Cash flows were discounted using pre-tax rates that are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect differences between the risk profile of the geographical areas or CGUs concerned and that of the Group as a whole.
Goodwill allocated by geographical area United States Goodwill allocated to the US operations of 72 million 2017 74 million which related to single ingredient operations only relates predominantly to the Staley acquisition in 1988.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2019 and Board-reviewed five-year plan, which includes mid-single digit volume growth in Food & Beverage Solutions and flat volumes in Primary Products.
Operating profit is assumed to increase by low-single digits for both Food & Beverage Solutions and Primary Products, based on managements long-term expectations.
Based on the risk profile of the assets tested, cash flows were discounted using a pretax rate of 8.9% 2017 8.8%.
Significant headroom exists and management concluded that no impairment is required.
Europe Goodwill of 109 million is allocated to the European operations.
At 31 March 2017, goodwill totalled 106 million being 63 million relating to the European Food Systems CGU incorporating G. C. Hahn and Company and Cesalpinia Foods and 43 million relating to the Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o. CGU.
Both CGUs were tested separately in 2017.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2019 and Board-reviewed five-year plan which assumes expansion beyond normal maintenance capital expenditure.
Accordingly, the recoverable amount was determined based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair value was determined based on a discounted cash flow model using a post-tax discount rate and cash inflows and outflows from future expansion.
Cash flows from 2019 onwards are expected to grow at a double-digit compound annual rate over the subsequent four years reflecting the growth derived from the expansion.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 7.1%.
Management concluded that no impairment is required.
Goodwill allocated by reportable segment Food & Beverage Solutions Goodwill of 6 million is allocated to the Latin American Food & Beverage Solutions operations 2017 7 million relating to Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria E Comrcio S. A. which was tested separately in 2017.
The impairment model assumes expansion beyond normal maintenance capital expenditure and the recoverable amount therefore was calculated based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The model assumes a return to profitability over the first two years with volume and contribution margin growth in low-double digits over the five years.
The long-term growth rate is assumed to be 5% thereafter, reflecting the growth expectations for this market.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 11.7% 2017 12% post-tax.
In 2017, management recognised an impairment charge of 16 million within other expenses as an exceptional item in relation to the Gemacom CGU.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
Goodwill of 9 million 2017 10 million allocated to the Food & Beverage Solutions segment relates to the acquisition of Tate & Lyle Sweden AB formerly Biovelop, the Oat Beta Glucan plant, in the 2014 financial year.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2019, and the model projects material operating profit growth as commercialisation of a key co-product stream is achieved.
Management concluded, based on the fair value less cost of disposal model used, that no impairment is required.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 7.0% 2017 7.1%.
Long-term growth rate is assumed to be 1% 2017 0% thereafter, reflecting the future growth potential of the market.
However, this calculation resulted in a low level of headroom compared TM with the carrying value.
The amount of headroom was particularly sensitive to the discount rate, the pricing of the PrOatein main product and sales volumes and prices of co-products.
Reasonably possible changes in each of these assumptions individually, being changes in TM excess of an increase in the discount rate of 6bps, a reduction in pricing of PrOatein sold of 100bps, a reduction in volumes of co-products sold in years two to five of 90bps or a reduction in pricing of co-products sold of 100bps would lead to an impairment.
Management considers the value of co-product revenues within the model to be an area of significant judgement.
Refer to Note 2 for further details.
There are no other individually material elements of goodwill allocated to the Food & Beverage Solutions, Sucralose or Primary Products reportable segments.
136 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 136 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued ii Possibility of impairment in the near future Management considers that, with the exception of Tate & Lyle Sweden AB, there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land Plant and course of and buildings machinery construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2017 569 2 433 77 3 079 Additions at cost 5 4 104 113 Transfers on completion 43 111 154 Disposals and write offs 4 18 1 23 Currency translation differences 57 252 309 At 31 March 2018 556 2 278 26 2 860 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2017 289 1 729 2 018 Depreciation charge 14 100 114 Disposals and write offs 3 17 20 Currency translation differences 30 187 217 At 31 March 2018 270 1 625 1 895 Net book value at 31 March 2018 286 653 26 965 Including assets held under finance leases 8 8 Cost At 1 April 2016 485 2 142 222 2 849 Additions at cost 1 5 122 128 Transfers on completion 43 199 242 1 Disposals and write offs 30 249 25 304 Currency translation differences 70 336 406 At 31 March 2017 569 2 433 77 3 079 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2016 265 1 633 25 1 923 Depreciation charge 14 95 109 Impairment charge 3 4 7 1 Disposals and write offs 30 247 25 302 Currency translation differences 37 244 281 At 31 March 2017 289 1 729 2 018 Net book value at 31 March 2017 280 704 77 1 061 Including assets held under finance leases 10 10 1 In the year ended 31 March 2017, the formerly impaired assets at the Singapore plant were decommissioned and removed from the fixed asset register.
Impairment reviews Management conducted impairment reviews of property, plant and equipment during the year and concluded that there were no impairments.
During the prior year, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 6 million in respect of the impairment of certain redundant assets at the Decatur facility in the US see Note 7.
As part of the impairment and deconsolidation of the Group's equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, the Group recognised a 1 million charge see Note 7. www.
com 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Equity accounted investments The amounts recognised in the Consolidated income statement are as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Joint ventures continuing operations 28 32 Total operations 28 32 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Associates 4 Joint ventures 85 92 Associates On 2 November 2017, the Group completed the sale of its 33.3% share in an associated undertaking, the Tapioca Development Corporation.
This was the Groups only associate and was accounted for under the equity method.
The associate had share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which were held directly by the Group, and the country of incorporation or registration is also its principal place of business.
Tapioca Development Corporation is a private company, based in Thailand, and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
This sale resulted in cash proceeds of 5 million and resulted in a profit on disposal of 2 million, after recycling of cumulative foreign exchange translation gains of 1 million from reserves to the income statement upon disposal.
In the opinion of the Directors, this former associate was not considered to be material to the Group and there are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups previously held interest in the associate.
The investment in the associate as at 31 March 2018 was nil 2017 4 million.
During the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017, other than the gain on disposal, the Group recognised no net profit in its consolidated income statement and received no dividends from its associate.
Joint ventures In the opinion of the Directors, the Groups material joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, are Almidones Mexicanos SA Almex and DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Bio-PDO see Note 38.
The joint ventures have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and its joint venture partners and are private companies.
No quoted market price is available for their shares.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
The movements in the carrying value of the Groups investment in joint ventures are summarised as follows: Note m Investments in joint ventures At 1 April 2017 92 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 28 Other comprehensive expense including exchange 23 9 Dividends paid 26 At 31 March 2018 85 Note m At 1 April 2016 82 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 32 Other comprehensive income including exchange 23 7 Dividends 29 At 31 March 2017 92 Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material joint venture accounted for using the equity method.
The information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint ventures and not the Groups share of those amounts adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint ventures to make it consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
138 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 138 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Income Statement Year ended 31 March 2018 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Sales 627 97 724 Depreciation and amortisation 2 7 9 Other expense 564 71 635 Profit before tax 61 19 80 Income tax expense 17 7 24 Profit for the year from total operations 44 12 56 Other comprehensive expense 12 4 1 17 Total comprehensive income 32 8 1 39 Dividends 53 53 Year ended 31 March 2017 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Sales 618 90 708 Depreciation and amortisation 2 7 9 Other expense 546 65 611 Profit before tax 70 18 88 Income tax expense 20 4 24 Profit for the year from total operations 50 14 64 Other comprehensive income 5 10 1 14 Total comprehensive income 55 24 1 78 Dividends 33 24 57 Statement of Financial Position At 31 March 2018 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Assets Non-current assets 43 46 89 Cash and cash equivalents 2 27 29 Other current assets 161 20 181 206 93 299 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 4 4 Current borrowings 47 47 Other current liabilities 57 21 78 108 21 129 Net assets 98 72 170 www.
com 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Statement of Financial Position At 31 March 2017 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Assets Non-current assets 45 53 1 99 Cash and cash equivalents 7 10 17 Other current assets 155 14 169 207 77 1 285 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 4 4 Current borrowings 22 22 Other current liabilities 62 13 75 88 13 101 Net assets 119 64 1 184 Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Groups interest in joint ventures: Reconciliation of summarised financial information Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2017 119 64 1 184 Profit for the year from total operations 44 12 56 Other comprehensive expense 12 4 1 17 Dividends 53 53 Closing net assets at 31 March 2018 98 72 170 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 49 36 85 Carrying value at 31 March 2018 49 36 85 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2016 97 64 2 163 Profit for the year from total operations 50 14 64 Other comprehensive income expense 5 10 1 14 Dividends 33 24 57 Closing net assets at 31 March 2017 119 64 1 184 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 59 32 1 92 Carrying value at 31 March 2017 59 32 1 92 140 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 140 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 22.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary share Share capital premium Total m m m At 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 Number of Cost Number Cost shares m of shares m At 1 April 468 256 866 117 468 235 944 117 Allotted under share option schemes 52 068 20 922 At 31 March 468 308 934 117 468 256 866 117 The nominal value of each share is 25 pence.
Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under share-based incentive arrangements see Note 31.
Own shares are held either by the Company in treasury or by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that was established by the Company.
Movements in own shares held were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 Number Cost Number Cost of shares m of shares m At 1 April 5 529 597 37 4 161 942 28 Purchased in the market: into treasury 2 000 000 14 into the EBT 3 900 000 27 541 110 4 Transferred to EBT 15 572 Transferred to employees: from treasury 1 010 461 6 230 619 2 from the EBT 1 068 438 6 958 408 7 At 31 March 7 350 698 52 5 529 597 37 Shares held for the benefit of untraceable shareholders and bearer warrant holders transferred to the trust at nil cost.
com 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Other reserves Currency Hedging reserve translation reserve Other reserves Total m m m m At 1 April 2016 2 30 99 127 Other comprehensive income expense : Cash flow hedges: fair value gain in the year 1 1 reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 4 4 Available-for-sale financial assets: reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 1 1 Currency translation differences: gain on currency translation of foreign operations 185 185 fair value loss on net investment hedges 69 69 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures 7 7 Items transferred to income statement on disposal of subsidiary 1 1 At 31 March 2017 3 152 98 253 Other comprehensive expense income: Cash flow hedges: reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 4 4 Available-for-sale financial assets: fair value gain in the year 3 3 Currency translation differences: loss on currency translation of foreign operations 122 122 fair value gain on net investment hedges 39 39 Share of other comprehensive expense of joint ventures 9 9 Items transferred to income statement on disposal of associate 1 1 At 31 March 2018 1 59 101 159 For the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017, there was no tax effect on the above movements in reserves.
Trade and other payables At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Current payables Trade payables 192 185 Social security 7 6 Accruals and deferred income 91 107 Other payables 22 17 Total 312 315 The above amounts do not include non-current other payables of 10 million 2017 10 million.
142 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 142 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 24.
Trade and other payables continued The carrying amount of trade and other payables was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US Dollar 220 242 Euro 43 22 Sterling 29 32 Other 30 29 Total 322 325 25.
Borrowings Non-current borrowings At 31 March 2018 2017 m m 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20232036 US$70,100,000 50 56 US Private Placement 2023-2027 US$400,000,000 285 319 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 207 212 Total loan notes 544 589 Other bank loans 1 Total other bank loans 1 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 10 14 Total obligations under lease obligations 10 14 Total non-current borrowings 554 604 Current borrowings At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US commercial paper 70 Short-term loans 13 16 Unsecured bank overdrafts 1 1 Total loan notes and overdrafts 14 87 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 2 1 Total current borrowings 16 88 Included within borrowings are 150 million 2017 150 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges, the amortised cost of which has been increased by 7 million 2017 13 million in the tables above.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
There are no other securities on borrowings.
com 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Borrowings continued Current borrowings continued Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 $25m 3.83% US Private Placement Notes 2023 3.8% 3.8% $180m 4.06% US Private Placement Notes 2025 4.1% 4.1% $100m 4.16% US Private Placement Notes 2027 4.2% 4.2% 1 $95m US Private Placement FRN 2023 3.1% 2.4% 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% Industrial Revenue Bonds 20232036 US$70,100,000 1.1% 0.7% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 5.4% 5.2% 1 Floating rate note based on US six-month LIBOR 1.47%.
Short-term loans and overdrafts Short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC holds a US$800 million five-year committed revolving credit facility with a core of highly rated banks which matures between July 2020 and July 2021.
At 31 March 2018, the facility had a value of 570 million 2017 638 million and was undrawn.
The facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitments in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 Present value Present value Minimum lease of minimum Minimum lease of minimum payments lease payments payments lease payments m m m m Within one year 3 2 1 1 Between one and five years 10 9 12 10 After five years 1 1 5 4 Total 14 12 18 15 Less future finance charges 2 3 Present value of minimum lease payments 12 15 26.
Change in working capital and other non-cash movements Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Continuing operations Increase decrease in inventories 8 13 Increase decrease in receivables 41 35 Increase decrease in payables 19 47 Increase in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 6 4 Decrease in provisions for other liabilities and charges 2 2 Change in working capital 38 5 Other non-cash movements 2 9 Change in working capital and other non-cash movements 36 4 144 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 144 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 27.
Net debt Reconciliation of the decrease in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 48 88 Net decrease in borrowings 74 124 Decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows 26 36 Fair value and other movements 1 3 Currency translation differences 35 57 Decrease increase in net debt in the year 60 18 Net debt at beginning of the year 452 434 Net debt at end of year 392 452 Net change in borrowings includes repayments of capital elements of finance leases of 1 million 2017 - 1 million.
Movements in the Groups net debt were as follows: Borrowings and finance leases Cash and cash Debt-related equivalents Current Non-current derivatives Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 317 200 556 5 434 Increase decrease resulting from cash flows 88 124 36 Fair value and other movements 4 2 3 3 Reclassification 2 2 Currency translation differences 32 14 52 23 57 At 31 March 2017 261 88 604 21 452 Increase decrease resulting from cash flows 48 74 26 Fair value and other movements 2 6 5 1 Reclassification 3 3 Currency translation differences 23 3 41 14 35 At 31 March 2018 190 16 554 12 392 At 31 March 2018, total liabilities arising from financing activities were 582 million 2017 713 million.
Debt-related derivative financial instruments represent the net fair value of currency and interest rate swaps that are used to manage the currency and interest rate profile of the Groups net debt.
At 31 March 2018, the net fair value of these derivatives comprised assets of 10 million 2017 17 million and liabilities of 22 million 2017 38 million.
Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m US dollar 276 347 Euro 36 41 Sterling 56 46 Other 24 18 Total 392 452 www.
com 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Derivatives and hedge accounting At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps 1 21 2 37 Interest rate swaps 7 13 8 21 15 37 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps 1 1 Interest rate swaps 2 2 2 1 2 1 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile 10 22 17 38 Other current derivative financial instruments Commodity pricing contracts: cash flow hedges 2 3 1 held for trading 22 9 26 15 Total other derivative financial instruments 22 11 29 16 Total derivative financial instruments 32 33 46 54 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 8 21 15 37 Current derivative financial instruments 24 12 31 17 32 33 46 54 The ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss in the current period arising from net investment hedges was 1 million gain 2017 nil.
The ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss in the current and prior periods arising from fair value and cash flow hedges was not material.
Cash flow hedges The Group employs commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity see Note 23 on commodity pricing contracts at 31 March 2018 are expected to be reclassified to the income statement at various future dates.
Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2018 were 150 million 2017 150 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the US and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2018 were 169 million 2017 182 million.
Within net investment hedging gains losses, a fair value gain of 14 million 2017 21 million loss on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the period-end date was recognised in the currency translation reserve in shareholders equity see Note 23.
In addition, at 31 March 2018, of the Groups liabilities, a total of 163 million 2017 188 million are designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations.
146 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 146 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017.
At 31 March 2018 Derivatives in Derivatives  a hedging held for sale financial Total carrying cost cash relationship trading assets value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 37 37 37 Trade and other receivables 17 281 281 281 Cash and cash equivalents 16 190 190 190 Derivative financial instruments assets 28 10 22 32 32 Borrowings 25 570 570 576 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 28 24 9 33 33 Trade and other payables 24 315 315 315 Total 414 14 13 37 378 384 At 31 March 2017 Derivatives in a Derivatives  hedging held for sale financial Total carrying cost cash relationship trading assets value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 30 30 30 Trade and other receivables 17 277 277 277 Cash and cash equivalents 16 261 261 261 Derivative financial instruments assets 28 20 26 46 46 Borrowings 25 692 692 712 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 28 39 15 54 54 Trade and other payables 24 319 319 319 Total 473 19 11 30 451 471 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 16 million 2017 15 million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 7 million 2017 6 million relating to social security.
Borrowings with a carrying value of 207 million 2017 212 million relate to listed bonds with a fair value of 217 million 2017 229 million according to quoted market prices and are categorised as Level 1 for fair value measurement.
Borrowings with a carrying value of 285 million 2017 319 million relate to US Private Placement Notes with a fair value of 281 million 2017 322 million according to broker dealer quotations and are categorised as Level 3 for fair value measurement.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounted estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are categorised as Level 2 for fair value measurement.
com 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 refer to Note 2 for a description of the three levels of fair value measurement : At 31 March 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 37 37 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 1 1 interest rate swaps 28 9 9 commodity pricing contracts 28 5 6 11 22 Assets at fair value 5 16 48 69 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 22 22 commodity pricing contracts 28 5 1 5 11 Liabilities at fair value 5 23 5 33 At 31 March 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 30 30 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 2 2 interest rate swaps 28 15 15 commodity pricing contracts 28 7 1 21 29 Assets at fair value 7 18 51 76 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 38 38 commodity pricing contracts 28 6 7 3 16 Liabilities at fair value 6 45 3 54 148 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 148 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Financial instruments measured at fair value The following table shows the methodology used to measure Level 3 fair values.
The table isolates the unobservable inputs: however, the full impact on the Groups income statement is described within the price risk management section.
Sensitivity of the fair value measurement in Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs reasonable changes to inputs Written commodity contract Based on the Groups own 1.
10% increase decrease in the price of assessment of the positions refer to fair the co-products would result in a net commodity, supply and value measurement increase decrease in fair value of demand, as well as section in Note 2.
3 million 2017 nil in respect of expected pricing.
Basis refer to fair value measurement section in 2.
10% increase decrease in the cost of Note 2. basis would result in a net increase decrease in fair value of 2 million 2017 2 million in respect of Level 3 financial instruments.
In addition to the above, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets are sensitive to a number of market and non-market factors.
The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups net financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity pricing Commodity pricing  contracts sale financial Other financial assets liabilities assets liability Total m m m m m At 1 April 2016 38 4 23 2 55 Total gains losses : in operating profit 21 3 3 21 in other comprehensive income 3 1 2 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 2 2 Purchases 4 4 Settlements 38 4 2 36 At 31 March 2017 21 3 30 48 Total gains losses : in operating profit 11 5 1 5 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 2 2 Purchases 8 8 Settlements 21 3 2 20 At 31 March 2018 11 5 37 43 Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial Officer retains overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are directed by its board.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the US and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
The performance of the commodity trading function is monitored against its ability to match the Groups needs for raw materials with purchase contracts, as well as the Groups output of co-products with sales contracts.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
The Group applies a limited level of hedge accounting to its economic price exposure hedges.
com 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Market risks Foreign exchange management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in foreign operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, although exceptions can be approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement or statement of financial position and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement or statement of financial position respectively.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US and Europe, by borrowing principally in US dollars, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages some of its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in foreign operations through the use of currency swap contracts and other liabilities.
The amount deferred in equity from the hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in foreign operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the Groups major currencies against sterling on its income statement and other components of equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The income statement impact is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including non-designated foreign currency derivatives.
The equity impact for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging the Groups net investments in its European and US operations.
At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 Income Income statement - Equity - statement - Equity - m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 1 27 31 Sterling euro 10% change 1 5 1 5 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt is fixed for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2018, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until October 2027 2017 October 2027.
The proportion of net debt managed by the Groups treasury function at 31 March 2018 that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 68% 2017 65%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2018 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2018, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, Group profit before tax would decrease by 2 million 2017 2 million.
If interest rates decreased by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax would increase by 1 million 2017 1 million increase.
Price risk management The Group participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients markets are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn.
The Group is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and related co-products and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
Some of the contracts are used to hedge co-product pricing, for which there is no active market.
The pricing is established by the Group, based on a number of inputs, as discussed on page 106.
Due to the seasonality of corn production, at certain points in time throughout the year, the exposure to commodity pricing contracts may be higher.
As at 31 March 2018, a 50% increase decrease in the price of corn will result in a decrease increase to the income statement of 3 million 2017 3 million and related decrease increase in other components of equity of 1 million 2017 nil.
150 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 150 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts substantially with investment grade counterparties approved by the Board.
The Board has approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Analysis of maximum credit exposure Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and are largely comprised of amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, with our customer base including large, unrelated and internationally dispersed customers.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the year-end date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets as disclosed under financial instruments by category on page 147.
Analysis of amounts set-off The Group does not offset financial assets and liabilities in its statement of financial position as the Group has no intention to net settle, except as described below.
Derivative assets and liabilities of 9 million 2017 17 million could be offset under an enforceable master netting agreement.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2018 are listed in Note 25.
At the year end, the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 190 million 2017 261 million and had committed undrawn facilities of 570 million 2017 638 million.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million, of which US$80 million matures in 2020 and US$720 million in 2021.
This facility is unsecured and contains financial covenants for the Group that the interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
Refer to Note 4 for the calculation of these measures for financial covenant purposes.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting periods, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after taking into account the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% matures beyond 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2018, after taking account of undrawn committed facilities, the Group was compliant with the policy.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 5.4 years 2017 6.2 years, taking account of undrawn committed facilities.
com 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued The table below analyses the undiscounted cash flows related to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities.
At 31 March 2018 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 8 210 339 Interest on borrowings 25 63 38 Trade and other payables 305 10 Derivative contracts: receipts 113 166 payments 110 183 Commodity pricing contracts 1 At 31 March 2017 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 79 212 383 Interest on borrowings 26 79 54 Trade and other payables 315 10 Derivative contracts: receipts 107 179 payments 105 206 Commodity pricing contracts 3 1 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these shares is included in the less than one year category.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
Commodity pricing contracts included above represent options and futures.
Commodity pricing contracts classified within Level 2 and Level 3 of fair value measurement are not included in the liquidity analysis above as they are not settled for cash.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are translated to pounds sterling using year-end exchange rates.
Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain the dividend policy: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans: and to retain an investment-grade credit rating which enables access to debt capital markets.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle PLC has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings.
At 31 March 2018, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa2 stable outlook 2017 Baa2 and from S&P was BBB stable outlook 2017 BBB.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 Note m m Net debt 27 392 452 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 1 367 1 332 Total capital 1 759 1 784 The Board has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed two times and interest cover should exceed five times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs were: year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Note Times Times Net debt EBITDA 4 0.8 0.9 Interest cover 4 14.6 13.9 152 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 152 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 30.
Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information i Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, principally in the UK and the US.
Generally, the pension benefits provided under these plans are determined based on the pensionable salary and period of pensionable service of the individual members.
Most of the plans are funded and the plan assets held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The extent of the powers of the trustees, in particular in respect of funding and investment strategy, varies and is dependent on local regulations and the rules of each plan.
Payments made by the Group to the plans principally comprise funding contributions agreed with the trustees that are determined in accordance with local regulations to ensure that appropriate funding levels are maintained and funding deficits are eliminated over a reasonable period of time.
All of the significant defined benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants and to future accrual.
The Group operates defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
Contributions payable by the Group to these plans during the year amounted to 10 million 2017 7 million.
ii Other benefits The Groups subsidiaries in the US provide unfunded retirement medical plans to the majority of their employees.
Such plans provide financial assistance in meeting various costs including medical, dental and prescription drugs.
Employees are required to contribute to the cost of benefits received under the plans.
The Group meets the remaining costs of providing these benefits in the period in which they are incurred.
b Movement in net defined benefit asset liability i Analysis of net defined benefit asset liability At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 Medical Medical Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit obligations: Funded plans 1 493 1 493 1 630 1 630 Unfunded plans 56 63 119 63 76 139 1 549 63 1 612 1 693 76 1 769 Fair value of plan assets 1 630 1 630 1 630 1 630 Net surplus deficit 81 63 18 63 76 139 Presented in the statement of financial position as: Retirement benefit surplus 178 178 120 120 Retirement benefit deficit 97 63 160 183 76 259 81 63 18 63 76 139 Net defined benefit asset liability reconciliation: Medical Pensions benefits Total m m m At 1 April 2016 142 66 208 Year ended 31 March 2017 net increase in the benefit obligation 125 10 135 net increase in the fair value of plan assets 204 204 At 31 March 2017 63 76 139 Year ended 31 March 2018 net decrease in the benefit obligation 144 13 157 net change in the fair value of plan assets At 31 March 2018 81 63 18 www.
com 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued ii Analysis of movements in the benefit obligation Pension benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2016 985 568 15 1 568 66 1 634 Year ended 31 March 2017 Service cost current 2 2 1 3 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 33 23 56 2 58 Actuarial gains losses : changes in financial assumptions 177 16 161 2 163 changes in demographic assumptions 53 10 63 1 64 experience against assumptions 12 19 7 7 Net actuarial loss gain 112 7 105 1 106 Benefits paid 51 69 120 4 124 Settlement gain see Note 7 9 9 9 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements see Note 18 2 2 2 Currency translation differences 2 83 1 86 10 96 Increase in the benefit obligation 99 21 5 125 10 135 At 31 March 2017 1 084 589 20 1 693 76 1 769 Year ended 31 March 2018 Service cost current 3 3 1 4 Interest on benefit obligation 26 21 47 2 49 Actuarial gains losses : changes in financial assumptions 25 25 25 changes in demographic assumptions 23 4 27 27 experience against assumptions 8 6 14 3 11 Net actuarial gain loss 40 2 38 3 41 Benefits paid 60 31 91 5 96 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements see Note 18 2 2 2 Currency translation differences 2 63 2 67 8 75 Decrease increase in the benefit obligation 76 71 3 144 13 157 At 31 March 2018 1 008 518 23 1 549 63 1 612 At 31 March 2018, the benefits payment expected by the plans over the next ten years were as follows: Pension benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit payments: within 12 months 41 31 72 4 76 between 1 to 2 years 41 32 73 4 77 between 3 to 5 years 125 97 222 14 236 between 6 to 10 years 216 162 378 21 399 Total expected benefit payments over the next ten years 423 322 745 43 788 154 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 154 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued In the UK, scheme members can elect to forego a portion of their future pension benefits, in return for a lump sum payment, or a transfer out to other arrangements.
These amounts are excluded from future benefit projections.
The 157 million improvement was driven by a reduction in the deficit of the US schemes largely as a result of foreign exchange movements from the weakening of the US dollar and by cash contributions.
In addition to regular cash contributions of 44 million in the year, the Group made an accelerated gross cash contribution to the US schemes of 56 million, in light of an opportunity to fund the schemes while taking advantage of a higher US tax deduction.
The pension benefits paid in respect of US plans were higher in the financial year ended 31 March 2017 compared to the current financial year due to the settlement made by some deferred members during the prior year which resulted in the recognition of a 9 million exceptional gain see Note 7d.
At 31 March 2018, the weighted average duration of the significant defined benefit obligations was as follows: Duration Pension plans: UK 16 years US 11 years Medical benefits 10 years Assumptions For accounting purposes, the benefit obligation of each plan has been calculated in accordance with IAS 19 based on data gathered for the most recent actuarial valuation and by applying assumptions made by the Group on the advice of independent actuaries.
Note that for the UK defined benefit pension plan these best estimate IAS 19 assumptions are different to the more prudent assumptions used for funding valuation purposes.
For the US defined benefit pension plan, the funding valuation assumptions are identical to the IAS 19 assumptions.
The principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation were as follows: At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 UK US UK US Inflation rate 2.2% 3.2% 2.5% 2.3% 3.3% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% n a 3.5% Expected rate of pension increases: deferred pensions 2.2% n a 2.3% n a pensions in payment 3.1% n a 3.1% n a Discount rate 2.6% 4.0% 2.4% 4.0% Assumptions regarding future mortality rates of members of the Groups pension plans are based on published statistics and take into account the profile of the plan members.
On this basis, the average life expectancies assumed for members of the plans are as follows: At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 UK US UK US Male aged 65 now 21.4 years 20.8 years 21.6 years 20.9 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 23.2 years 22.4 years 23.7 years 22.5 years Female aged 65 now 23.5 years 22.7 years 23.8 years 22.9 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 25.3 years 24.3 years 26.1 years 24.5 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill health.
com 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Medical benefits Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation are medical cost inflation and the discount rate applied to the expected benefit payments.
The Group has assumed medical cost inflation at 7.5% per annum 2017 8.0%, grading down to 5% by 2023, and used a discount rate of 3.9% 2017 3.9%.
At 31 March 2018, the sensitivity of the net surplus deficit on the plans to changes in the principal assumptions was as follows assuming in each case that the other assumptions are unchanged : Increase decrease in obligation Change in Increase in Decrease in assumptions - surplus deficit surplus deficit Pension plans Inflation rate 50 bp 58 55 Life expectancy 1 year 68 70 Discount rate 50 bp 102 115 Medical benefits Medical cost inflation 50 bp 2 2 Discount rate 50 bp 3 3 Inflation rate sensitivity covers the inflation assumption, expected rate of salary increases assumption and expected rate of pensions in payment increases assumption.
iii Analysis of movements in the plan assets UK US Total m m m At 1 April 2016 1 018 408 1 426 Year ended 31 March 2017 Interest on plan assets 34 17 51 Actual return higher than interest on plan assets 164 15 179 Employers contributions 22 16 38 Benefits paid 51 69 120 Currency translation differences 56 56 Increase in fair value of plan assets 169 35 204 At 31 March 2017 1 187 443 1 630 Year ended 31 March 2018 Interest on plan assets 28 16 44 Actual return lower higher than interest on plan assets 9 11 2 Employers contributions 22 69 91 Plan administration costs 1 1 2 Benefits paid 60 27 87 Currency translation differences 48 48 Decrease increase in fair value of plan assets 20 20 At 31 March 2018 1 167 463 1 630 156 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 156 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Analysis of plan assets Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 UK US Total UK US Total m m m m m m Equities quoted 79 79 150 110 260 Corporate bonds quoted 162 331 493 138 254 392 Government bonds quoted 811 128 939 795 53 848 Investment funds quoted 205 205 182 182 Derivatives quoted 383 383 395 395 Cash 15 15 20 20 Property unquoted 22 22 Investment funds unquoted 1 1 1 1 Derivatives unquoted 15 15 18 18 Insurance policies unquoted 262 4 266 278 4 282 1 167 463 1 630 1 187 443 1 630 The fair value of the insurance policies is deemed to be equivalent to the present value of the related benefit obligation.
The Group also paid an additional 5 million 2017 4 million into the US unfunded retirement medical plans and 4 million 2017 4 million into the US unfunded pension plans to meet the cost of providing benefits in the financial year.
Plan assets do not include any direct investments in securities issued by the Group or any property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
Assets are classified as quoted only if they have a quoted market price in an active market as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All other assets are classified as unquoted.
Where a plan is in surplus, the surplus recognised is limited to the present value of any amounts that the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
The Group considers that it has an unconditional right to the surplus relating to the UK plan as the scheme rules state that any surplus should be returned to the Group in the event that there are no members left in the pension scheme.
c Mitigation of risk The defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as interest rate, longevity, inflation and investment risk.
The Group encourages the trustees of the plans to adopt an investment policy that seeks to mitigate these risks, which involves investing a significant proportion of the plan assets in liability-driven investment portfolios that mitigate interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
The Group seeks to ensure that, as far as practicable, the investment portfolios of the funded plans are invested in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities and in currencies that match the expected future benefit payments as they fall due.
At 31 March 2018, 266 million 2017 282 million of the benefit obligation was fully matched by qualifying insurance policies that also mitigate longevity and investment risks.
The UK plans also maintain a portfolio of return-seeking investments, principally in the form of equities and investment funds, whilst the US funded plans are principally comprised of fixed interest securities since all equity and real estate assets were sold following the accelerated contribution payment.
In the UK, interest rate derivatives are used to achieve close matching where matching fixed-interest securities are not available in the market.
At 31 March 2018 the ratio of non-insured liabilities under the main UK plan which had been hedged for both interest rate and inflation rate risks was 87%.
For interest rate purposes it is the economic liability risk which is hedged rather than the IAS 19 accounting liability risk, i. e. the hedging is linked to movements in government bond yields rather than high quality AA corporate bond yields.
The economic liability risk is hedged in this way as it impacts the funding position which, in turn, drives the Companys cash contribution requirements.
Most of the inflation risk for the Group arises in the UK since deferred pensions and pensions in payment in the US do not attract inflation increases.
Inflation risk is mitigated by holding index-linked government bonds and corporate bonds and, in the UK, inflation derivatives.
d Funding of the plans As required by local regulations, actuarial valuations of the US pension plans are carried out each year and those of the UK pension plans are carried out at least every three years.
The main UK scheme triennial valuation as at 31 March 2016 was concluded during the prior year, with agreed core funding contributions maintained at 12 million per year, and the Group also committing to extend the supplementary contributions payable into the secured funding account of 6 million per year until 31 March 2023.
This funding is payable to the trustees on certain triggering events such as underperformance of the Schemes investments or a deterioration in the strength of the Groups financial covenant.
The Group will continue to fund the UK plan administration costs.
During the year ending 31 March 2019, the Group expects to contribute approximately 26 million to its defined benefit pension plans and to pay approximately 4 million in relation to retirement medical benefits.
com 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments The Company operates share-based incentive arrangements for the executive directors, senior executives and other eligible employees under which awards and options are granted over the Companys ordinary shares.
All of the arrangements under which awards and options were outstanding during the 2018 and 2017 financial years are classified as equity-settled.
During the year, the compensation expense recognised in profit or loss in respect of share-based incentives was 15 million 2017 21 million.
Other than the Sharesave Plan, all option awards have a nil exercise price.
The following arrangements existed during the period: a Performance Share Plan The Groups principal ongoing share-based incentive arrangement is the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Participation in the PSP is restricted to the executive directors and other senior executives.
Awards made under the PSP normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment until the end of the performance period, and are subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The conditions applicable to PSP awards made from 1 April 2016 relate to the achievement of the Group adjusted return on capital employed ROCE and adjusted profit targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations reaching specified levels at the end of the performance period.
Up to 25% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth in the Groups adjusted profit before tax with the remaining 25% from compound annual growth of the Food & Beverage Solutions adjusted operating profit.
The conditions applicable to PSP awards made prior to 31 March 2016 relate to the achievement of earnings per share EPS and ROCE targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reaching specified levels over the performance period.
The performance period is the period of three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is granted.
b Group Bonus Plan deferred element Bonuses earned under the Group Bonus Plan GBP are normally paid in cash up to 100% of the base salary of the participating executive.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares that are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in the Groups employment.
During the vesting period, payments in lieu of dividends are made in relation to the deferred shares.
c Sharesave Plan Options are granted from time to time under the Companys Sharesave Plan, which is open to all employees in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy shares in the Company after a period of three or five years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which they contribute on a monthly basis.
The exercise price reflects a discount to market value of up to 20%.
d Restricted Share Awards The Company has made a Restricted Share Award RSA to a number of eligible employees.
Awards made normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and other conditions, specific to the individual awards, are met.
e Conditional Share Award During the prior year, the Company made a Conditional Share Award CSA to eligible employees.
Up to 50% of each award vested dependent on adjusted Group profit after tax on continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Up to 50% of each award vested dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations as at 31 March 2017.
The award vested as soon as practicable after 31 March 2017, although, some employees were subject to an additional retention period ending 31 March 2018.
The vesting level of the awards may be reduced in other circumstances specified at award.
Further information for these awards made in relation to executive directors a, b and c only are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 89.
Movements in the year Movements in the awards outstanding during the year were as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average Weighted average Awards exercise price Awards exercise price number pence number pence Outstanding at 1 April 12 435 492 10p 10 607 961 10p Granted 4 262 759 15p 5 875 352 6p Exercised 2 130 967 13p 1 209 949 10p Lapsed 3 453 377 5p 2 837 872 5p Outstanding at 31 March 11 113 907 13p 12 435 492 10p Exercisable at 31 March 485 268 17p 603 939 3p The weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the dates on which awards were exercised during the year was 704p 2017 684p.
158 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 158 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 31.
Share-based payments continued Awards granted in the year During the year, PSP awards were granted over 3,807,789 shares 2017 4,177,420 shares, RSAs were granted over 124,011 shares 2017 nil, no CSAs were granted 2017 1,474,000 shares, the deferred element of GBP awards were granted over 216,727 shares 2017 161,503 shares and Sharesave options were granted over 114,232 shares 2017 62,429 shares.
The compensation expense recognised in relation to these awards is based on the fair value of the awards at their respective grant dates.
The weighted average fair values of the awards granted during the year and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2017 PSP Sharesave CSA PSP Sharesave CSA Fair value at grant date 627p 133p n a 662p 102p 582p Exercise price 555p 597p Principal assumptions: Share price on grant date 687p 684p n a 722p 667p 621p Expected life of the awards 3 years 3.3 5.3 years n a 3 years 3.3 5.3 years 0.9 1.9 years Risk-free interest rate 0.62% 0.86% 0.37% 0.76% Dividend yield on the Companys shares 4.08% 4.12% n a 3.87% 4.20% 4.51% Volatility of the Companys shares n a 25% n a n a 25% n a In addition, 216,727 deferred shares issued under the Group Bonus Plan during the year have an expected life of 2.0 years with a fair value at the grant date of 795p 2017 614p.
RSAs of 124,011 2017 nil were granted, with employment related conditions and expected life of the award, specific to each individual grant.
The fair value of the awards was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, taking into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys shares over the expected life of the awards.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life of the awards outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: At 31 March 2018 At 31 March 2017 Weighted average Weighted average Awards contractual life Awards contractual life number months number months Exercise price Nil 10 853 697 46.7 12 207 008 44.9 400p to 799p 260 210 33.8 228 484 32.1 Total 11 113 907 46.4 12 435 492 44.7 www.
com 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions Insurance Restructuring and provisions closure provisions Other provisions Total m m m m At 1 April 2016 12 14 10 36 Year ended 31 March 2017 Provided in the year 1 3 3 7 Released in the year 1 1 2 Utilised in the year 5 14 19 Exchange and other movements 2 1 2 5 At 31 March 2017 9 3 15 27 Year ended 31 March 2018 Provided in the year 2 1 3 Released in the year 1 1 Utilised in the year 3 2 1 6 Exchange and other movements 1 1 1 3 At 31 March 2018 7 13 20 At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 5 10 after more than one year 15 17 Total 20 27 Provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters, previously disposed businesses and insurance provisions representing amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
All provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
The difference between the carrying value and the discounted present value was not material in either year.
Contingent liabilities Passaic River The Group remains subject to a legal case arising from the notification in 2007 by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA that it, along with approximately 70 others, is a potentially responsible party PRP for a 17 mile section of the northern New Jersey Passaic River, a major Superfund site.
In March 2016, the USEPA issued its Record of Decision ROD on the likely cost for the remediation of the lower eight-mile section of the river the most contaminated.
Whilst the Group will continue to vigorously defend itself in this matter, in light of the publication of the ROD, the Group has maintained a provision of 6 million in respect of this.
The Group continues to be unable to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss in respect of the remaining nine-mile section of the river and therefore has not recognised a provision for this section.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that the claims and litigation existing at 31 March 2018 will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
160 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 160 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 33.
Commitments Capital commitments At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Total commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 26 25 In addition, commitments in respect of retirement benefit obligations are detailed in Note 30.
Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the year-end date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Within one year 35 34 Between one year and five years 106 116 After five years 133 168 Total 274 318 34.
Acquisitions and disposals Completion of Tapioca Development Corporation disposal in the 2018 financial year On 2 November 2017, the Group completed the sale of its 33.3% share in an associated undertaking, the Tapioca Development Corporation.
Completion of Moroccan disposal in the 2017 financial year On 1 June 2016, the Group completed the sale of its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to ADM, receiving gross cash proceeds of 4 million, a net 3 million after cash disposed.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 1 million exceptional gain resulting from the recycling of cumulative foreign exchange translation gains from reserves to the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
Refer to Note 7 for details on the settlement reached with the Moroccan tax authorities in respect of historical tax matters relating to this entity.
Completion of Howbetter disposal in the 2017 financial year On 23 December 2016, the Group completed the disposal of Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, its Food Systems subsidiary in China, recognising a 7 million operating exceptional charge within other expenses in respect of impairing and deconsolidating the entity prior to disposal, and the associated costs of exiting see Note 7.
Events after the balance sheet date On 23 May 2018, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire a 15% equity holding in Sweet Green Fields, one of the largest privately held, fully integrated global stevia ingredient companies.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Group has an option to acquire the remaining 85% share in due course.
com 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Related party disclosure Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management, being its Directors and executive officers.
No related party transaction with close family members of the Groups key management occurred in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company, Tate & Lyle PLC, with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Transactions and balances with and between joint ventures are as shown below.
There are no such transactions with associates.
In the year ended 31 March 2018, the Group disposed of its 33.3% interest in Tapioca Development Corporation, a company based in Thailand, its only associate.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group disposed of, and therefore ceased to have related party transactions with two of its subsidiaries.
The Group disposed of its equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, its Food Systems business in China.
The Group also completed the disposal of its interest in its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco.
There were no other material changes in related parties or in the nature of related party transactions during the year.
Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 147 133 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures At 31 March 2018 2017 m m Receivables due from joint ventures 20 24 Payables due to joint ventures The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms in the current or prior year.
Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 10.
There were no other related party transactions with key management.
Currency exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of the Groups foreign operations into pounds sterling were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2018 2017 Average rate 1 1 US dollar 1.33 1.30 Euro 1.13 1.19 At 31 March 2018 2017 Year-end rate 1 1 US dollar 1.40 1.25 Euro 1.14 1.17 162 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 162 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 1 Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares attributable to attributable to Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Astaxanthin Manufacturing Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Cesalpinia UK Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom G. C. Hahn and Company Limited Food & Beverage 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Solutions production Hahntech International Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Harvey Steel Sugars Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Histonpark Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Robinson Milling Systems Tewkesbury Limited Dormant 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom T. L. S. S. Pension Nominees Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Export Holdings Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Group Services Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Holdings Americas Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Holdings Limited Holding company 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Industrial Holdings Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom company Tate & Lyle Investments Gulf States Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Investments America Limited Holding company 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Investments Brazil Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle L. P. Investment 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware partnership 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Overseas Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Pension Trust Limited Pension company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Share Shop Limited Non-trading 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Technology Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle UK Limited Non-trading 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Ventures II LP Investment 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom partnership 2 Tate & Lyle Ventures Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Ventures LP Investment 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom partnership 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle L. P. which is registered in Delaware, USA.
2 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
com 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares Country of incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address 1 Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA Food & Beverage Solutions 100 San Martn 140, 14th Floor, City distribution and sales support of Buenos Aires, Argentina Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Building 2, 1425 Boundary Road, production and distribution Wacol QLD 4076, Australia Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Internal service provider and 100 Industrielaan 4 box 10 1, 9320 2 Belgium N. V. sales support Aalst, Belgium Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Reinsurance 100 Canon's Court, 22 Victoria Finance Limited Street, Hamilton, Bermuda 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil S. A. Citric acid production and 100 Santa Rosa do Viterbo, State of Food & Beverage Solutions So Paulo, Fazenda Amlia, So distribution Paulo, 14270-000, Brazil G. C. Hahn & Co. do Brasil Dormant 100 Rua Sapetuba N 211, CEP:- Estabilizantes e Tecnologia 005510-001- Vila Pirajussara, 1 para Alimentos Ltda.
Estado fide So Paulo, Brazil Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Food & Beverage Solutions 93 No.
380, Distrito Industrial, City 1 Indstria e Comrcio S. A. production and support of Juiz fide Fora, State of Minas Gerais at Rua B, 36092-050, Brazil Canada Tate & Lyle Ingredients Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Suite 400, Phoenix Square, 371 Canada Limited sales support Queen Street, Fredericton NB E3B 4Y9, Canada Chile Tate & Lyle Chile Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Isidora Goyenechea 2800, Piso Commercial Ltda distribution and sales support 43, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile China Tate & Lyle Trading Food & Beverage Solutions 100 16F, Building C, Headquarters 1 Shanghai Co. Ltd distribution and sales support Park Phase 2, 1582 Gumei Road, Shanghai, 200233, China G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Food & Beverage Solutions 100 16F, Building C, Headquarters Stabiliser Business sales Park Phase 2, 1582 Gumei 1 Shanghai Ltd Road, Shanghai, 200233, China Tate & Lyle Food Ingredients Polydextrose production 100 New & Hi-Tech Industrial 1 Nantong Company Limited Development District, Rudong county, Nantong city, China 226400 1 Colombia Tate & Lyle Colombia S. A. S. Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Calle 11 #100-121 Of 309, Cali, distribution and sales support Colombia Croatia G. C. Hahn & Co. d. o. o. Za Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Donji Banovec 15, Koprivnica, distribuciju stabilizacionih sales 48000, Croatia sistema Czech Republic G. C. Hahn & Co. stabilizacni Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Ostravsk 169, 339 01 Klatovy IV, technika, s. r. o. sales Czech Republic Egypt Tate & Lyle Egypt LLC Dormant 100 87 Street 9, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt France G. C. Hahn & Cie. SARL Food & Beverage Solutions 100 76, rue du Marchal Lyautey, sales 78100 Saint Germain En Laye, France Tate & Lyle Ingredients Research and development 100 2 Avenue fide L'Horizon, 59650 France S. A. S. centre and Food & Beverage Villeneuve-D'Ascq, France Solutions sales support 164 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 164 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares Country of incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Germany G. C. Hahn & Co. Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31,  research and development 23556, Lbeck, Germany GmbH and sales support G. C. Hahn & Co. Holding company 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31,  23556, Lbeck, Germany mbH Tate & Lyle Germany GmbH Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31, sales support 23556, Lbeck, Germany Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Reinsurance 100 Suite 913, Europort, Gibraltar Gibraltar Limited Greece Tate & Lyle Greece A. E. Food & Beverage Solutions 95 54248 Thessaloniki, K. sales support Papadaki 69, Greece India Tate & Lyle Investments Dormant 100 C-367, Defense Colony, New India Private Ltd Delhi, 110 024, India Israel Tate & Lyle Israel Limited Dormant 100 16 Hatidhar st Ra'annana, Raanana, 4088, Israel Gamtal Foods Ltd Dormant 65 7 Anatot, Tel Aviv Jaffa, 6908007, Israel Italy Tate & Lyle Italia S. P. A.
Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Via Verdi, 1-Ossona, Milano, production and Italy sales support Japan Tate & Lyle Japan KK Food & Beverage Solutions 100 2F Oak Minami-Azabu Building, distribution 3-19-23 Minami-Azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Lithuania UAB G. C. Hahn & Co. Food & Beverage Solutions 100 E. Simkunaites Str.
10, Vilnius, sales LT04130, Lithuania Mexico Tate & Lyle Mxico, S. fide Food & Beverage Solutions 100 piso 2, Av.
Universidad 749, 1 R. L. fide C. V. distribution and sales support Col del Valle Sur, Ciudad fide Mexico, 03100, Mxico 1 Mexama, S. A. fide C. V. Non-trading 65 Calle lago fide tequesquitengo, No 111 Col. Cuahutemoc C. P. 62430, Morelos, Mxico Talo Services fide Mexico, Internal service provider 100 piso 2, Av.
Universidad 749, 1 S. C. Col del Valle Sur, Ciudad fide Mexico, 03100, Mxico Morocco T&L Casablanca S. A. R. L. Food & Beverage Solutions 100 22, Rue du Parc, Casa Thtre sales support Centre, Anfa, Casablanca, Morocco Netherlands Nederlandse Glucose Holding company 100 100 1541 KA, Koog aan fide Zaan, Industrie B. V. Lagedijk 5, The Netherlands Tate & Lyle Netherlands Primary Products and Food & 100 1541 KA, Koog aan fide Zaan, B. V. Beverage Solutions Lagedijk 5, The Netherlands production Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika Food & Beverage Solutions 100 Sterlinga 8A, 91425, d, stabilizowania Sp.
z o. o. sales Poland Tate & Lyle Global Shared Internal service provider 100 Sterlinga 8A, 91425, d, Services Sp.
z o. o. Poland Tate & Lyle Poland Dormant 100 Sterlinga 8A, 91425, d, Sp.
com 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares Country of incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address 1 Russian Federation Tate & Lyle CIS LLC Food & Beverage 100 Leninskaya Sloboda, 26, Area 2, Room Solutions sales 100, 115280, Moscow, Russian Federation Singapore Tate & Lyle Asia Pacific Food & Beverage 100 3 Biopolis Drive, #05-11 Synapse, Pte.
Solutions sales and Singapore 138623 ASPAC regional head office Tate & Lyle Singapore Sucralose production now 100 One Marina Boulevard #28-00 Pte Ltd decommissioned Singapore 018989 Tate & Lyle Singapore Holding company 100 One Marina Boulevard #28-00 Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore 018989 Slovakia Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o.
Primary Products and 100 Boleraz 114, 91908 Boleraz, Slovakia Food & Beverage Solutions production Tate & Lyle Slovakia, Internal service provider 100 Boleraz 114, 91908 Boleraz, Slovakia s. r. o.
South Africa Tate and Lyle South Food & Beverage 100 1 Gravel Drive, Kya Sands Business Africa Proprietary Solutions production and Park, Kya Sands, 2163, South Africa Limited distribution Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes Food & Beverage 100 Av.
Valencia, 15, 46171, Casinos y Tecnologia para Solutions sales Valencia, Spain Alimentos Ebromyl S. L. Dormant 100 Paseo Independencia, 6- PLT 3, 50004, Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain Talan Iberica SA Dormant 100 28 Raimundo Fernndez Villaverde, 28003, Madrid, Spain Sweden Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Oat protein and Beta 100 lvsvgen 1, 610 20, Kimstad, Sweden Glucan production Turkey Tate and Lyle Turkey Food & Beverage 100 Esentepe Mah.
193 Gda Hizmetleri Anonim Solutions sales support Plaza Kat: 2 193 235A14 ili, stanbul, irketi Turkey 1 Ukraine PII G. C. Hahn & Co. Kiev Food & Beverage 100 Mala Olexandriwka, Zentralna-Str.
2-B, Solutions sales Borispol, 08320KIEW, UKRAINE United Arab Tate & Lyle DMCC Food & Beverage 100 Cluster X, Tower X3, Office n. 3805.
Emirates Solutions sales support Jumeira Lake Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates USA Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Custom Food & Beverage 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Ingredients LLC Solutions production Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house finance 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States TLHUS, Inc. Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Ingredients Primary Products and 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Americas LLC Food & Beverage Delaware 19801, United States Solutions production Tate & Lyle Sucralose Sucralose production 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, LLC Delaware 19801, United States TLI Holding LLC In-house finance 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States 166 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 166 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares Country of incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Tate & Lyle Domestic Internal service provider 100 1209 North Orange Street, International Wilmington, Delaware 19801, Sales Corporation United States Tate & Lyle Grain, Inc.
Grain products 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Malic Acid Dormant 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Sugar Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Holdings, Inc. Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Americas Internal service provider 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Citric Acid Citric acid production 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Staley International Inc. Cereal sweeteners and 100 208 So.
LaSalle Street, Suite 814, starches Chicago, IL 560604, United States G. C. Hahn USA LLC Dormant 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
com 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Joint ventures Percentage of preference Percentage of shares ordinary shares attributable to Country of incorporation attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Mexico Almidones Mexicanos Primary Products and Food & 50 Calle 26 No.
2756, Zona Industrial, 1 S. A. fide C. V. Beverage Solutions Guadalajara, Jal.
44940, Mexico production Promotora fide Productos Primary Products and Food & 50 Calle 26 No.
2756, Zona Industrial, y Mercados Mexicanos, Beverage Solutions Guadalajara, Jal.
44940, Mexico 1 S. A. fide C. V. production Estacion fide Primary Products and Food & 50 - Calle 26 No.
2756, Zona Industrial, Transferencia Beverage Solutions Guadalajara, Jal.
44940, Mexico Coatzacoalcos, S. A. fide production 1 C. V. USA DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Industrial ingredients 50 1209 North Orange Street, Products Company, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of those entities whose financial years are not coterminous with that of the Group are consolidated or equity accounted in the Groups financial statements on the basis of management accounts for the year to 31 March.
168 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 168 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018
