Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Global Operations Delivering operational excellence Our Global Operations team is responsible for the delivery of Logistics high-quality products to our customers across the world.
Its Global Operations manages the storage, transportation and their job to run our plants safely, efficiently and cost-effectively, delivery of products from our plants to our customers.
We have making sure that our ingredients reach customers on time, in a global planning process supported by regional planning full, and to the right specification.
The team works closely with resources for Food & Beverage Solutions, and a global network Food & Beverage Solutions and Primary Products to serve of warehouses and transfer stations where we keep products customers through a flexible and efficient supply chain.
This process means we have the flexibility to respond to our customers needs.
Raw material sourcing and procurement Like all large companies, we have a global procurement team Customer service to manage sourcing efficiently.
Most of our ingredients and Our customer service teams for Food & Beverage Solutions and solutions are produced from agricultural crops, principally corn, Primary Products sit within Global Operations.
The teams are and so we have a separate sourcing team for raw materials.
regional so that they can offer the best customer experience from They work closely with farmers and other commercial partners order receipt to delivery.
to ensure we have a reliable and secure supply.
In the US, where most of our plants are located, we have a network of storage Continuous improvement elevators to manage the cost effectiveness, security and A dedicated Continuous Improvement team leads productivity, sustainability of our corn supply.
At harvest time, due to high efficiency and reliability projects across Tate & Lyle.
By using volumes, corn is delivered either to our elevators or is delivered innovative approaches and established continuous improvement direct from farmers.
We receive deliveries at our plants by rail methodologies, such as Lean and Six Sigma, the team identifies car, truck or barge.
and delivers projects to streamline processes, reduce process waste, and improve product quality.
Manufacturing In the US, we have four major corn wet mills, three in the Environment, health and safety mid-west and one in Tennessee, which serve US domestic Protecting our people and the world around us is foundational to customers and those in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Global Operations is responsible for environmental, In Europe, principally serving European customers, we have health and safety EHS performance across the Group.
In 2017, a corn wet mill in the Netherlands and one in Slovakia.
we developed a new, global approach to EHS for everyone who All our corn wet mills make ingredients for both business works at Tate & Lyle.
More details can be found on pages 46 to 49 divisions.
Other key sites include our Sucralose facility in the of this Annual Report.
US, and our citric acid plants in the US and Brazil.
Smaller manufacturing sites include an oat-based fibres facility in Sweden and a polydextrose fibre facility in China.
Examples of two achievements during the year Triple the fibre at Nantong, China US energy efficiency certifications In December 2017, we completed a Our corn wet mills in Lafayette South, project to expand capacity and upgrade Indiana and Loudon, Tennessee were processes at our STA-LITE Polydextrose awarded Energy Star Certification by the fibre facility in Nantong, China.
This US Environmental Protection Agency project has tripled capacity.
As part of the EPA for outstanding energy efficiency expansion, manufacturing and quality performance in 2017, with Lafayette processing were significantly enhanced, South achieving the best performance of and an advanced environmental all corn wet mills in the US.
The award management infrastructure and recognises industrial plants that are system was implemented.
performing in the top 25% of similar facilities across the US for energy efficiency, and which meet strict energy performance levels set by the EPA.
