Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 134 135 135 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year to 31 December 2018 Notes to the consolidated financial statements million Note 2018 2017 On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a 1.
Significant accounting policies subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Net cash from operating activities 27 641.3 604.1 Basis of preparation Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable Investing activities net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going Interest received 2.8 0.8 of acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except as i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the Dividends received from joint ventures 14.3 0.7 otherwise stated below.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair value of the assets and consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
12 2.1 4.2 Purchases of property, plant and equipment liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, all comprehensive income is attributed Purchases of software 11 0.3 1.5 to the owners and the non-controlling interests, which may result in the Adoption of new and revised standards non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
Amounts invested in repaid by joint ventures 6.4 6.1 The Group has adopted and applied the following standards and 2.7 amendments issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Proceeds from sale of interest in subsidiary The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are IASB that are relevant to its operations for the first time in the year included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date 8.7 4.6 Net cash generated from investing activities commencing 1 January 2018: of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Financing activities Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted a major line of IFRS 9 Financial instruments Lease capital repayments 8.3 business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Where necessary, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring Proceeds from the issue of own shares 0.1 IFRS 16 Leases the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
1.5 3.5 Cash received on exercise of share options All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amendments classification and Purchase of own shares 9.9 13.3 eliminated on consolidation.
measurement of share-based payment transactions Dividends paid 499.5 450.5 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle Joint ventures Net cash used in financing activities 516.2 460.2 Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint Information on the initial application of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 133.8 148.5 control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either voting rights or including the impact on the financial position and performance of the 600.5 450.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent is required for Group, can be found in Note 32.
The adoption of the other amendments in strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated the year did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 1.8 under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work in Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 27 734.2 600.5 Standards, interpretations and amendments in issue but not progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits yet effective or losses.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an operation, applied the following new or revised standards and interpretations that have but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related to the been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases, had not yet been operation.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups share of adopted by the EU: revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Joint ventures and joint operations are entered into to develop specific IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments sites.
Each arrangement is site or project specific and once the development or project is complete the arrangement is wound down.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits amendments plan amendment, curtailment or settlement Segmental reporting IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
amendments long-term interests in associates and joint ventures The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, Annual improvements to IFRSs 2015 2017 Cycle each managed by a Divisional Chair who sits on the Group Management The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards, Team.
In addition, there is an operating segment covering amendments and interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
As such the segmental reporting for 2018 is: Going concern Housing United Kingdom: The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking into North account the principal risks identified on pages 44 to 51.
Having considered Central and South West these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing London and South East including Central London arrangements and capital structure provide both the necessary facilities and covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at Corporate least the next 12 months.
Housing Spain Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Revenue a going concern basis.
In the current year, the Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Basis of accounting with Customers.
The new standard establishes a comprehensive five-step The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance model to determine the amount and timing of revenue recognised from with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial contracts with customers.
The adoption of IFRS 15 has not had a statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed significant impact on the revenue recognition policies of the Group.
Further by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements information on the adoption of IFRS 15 and the impact on the financial comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
position and performance of the Group for the current and prior year can be found in Note 32.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company: has the power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
136 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Interest receivable Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Also included in interest receivable are interest and interest-related receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after payments the Group receives on other receivables.
eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: Borrowing costs a Private housing development properties and land sales Borrowing costs are recognised on an accruals basis and are payable on Revenue is recognised in the income statement when control is transferred the Groups borrowings and lease liabilities.
Also included in borrowing to the customer, this is deemed to be when title of the property passes to costs is the amortisation of fees associated with the arrangement of the customer on legal completion.
Revenue in respect of the sale of the financing.
residential properties, whether under the Governments Help to Buy Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, Scheme or not, is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the or receivable on legal completion.
income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the b Part exchange carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by independent Capitalised finance costs are held in other receivables and amortised over surveyors, reduced for costs to sell.
Net proceeds generated from the the period of the facility.
subsequent sale of part exchange properties are recorded as a reduction Foreign currencies to net operating expenses.
The original sale is recorded in the normal way, with the fair value of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates c Cash incentives its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities to revenue.
that are denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional d Contracting work and partnership housing contracts currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are revenue and costs are recognised over time with reference to the stage of denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
Variations in retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period.
contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of operation are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet being reliably measured.
Income and expense items are translated at an appropriate average Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, rate for the year.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other contract revenue where recoverability is probable is recognised to the comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
extent of contract costs incurred.
Contract costs are recognised as Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and Cost of sales translated at the closing rate.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries The Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales see page 138 for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect based on the total budgeted cost of developing a site.
Once the total of such financial instruments.
expected costs of development are established they are allocated to individual plots to achieve a standard build cost per plot.
Leases To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified as the site During the year, the Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases using the modified progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots unless they retrospective approach allowed under the standard.
Comparative are specific to a particular plot, in which case they are recognised in the information has not been restated and continues to be reported under IAS income statement at the point of sale.
17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
The details of the current and prior years accounting policies are Positive contribution disclosed separately below.
Further information on the adoption and initial The positive contribution presented on the face of the income statement application of IFRS 16 can be found in Note 19 and Note 32. represents the net amount of previous impairments allocated to inventory Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 on a plot that has subsequently resulted in a gross profit on completion.
This is due to the combination of selling prices and costs, or product mix For contracts entered into on or after 1 January 2018, the Group assesses improvements exceeding our market assumptions in the previous net at inception whether the contract is, or contains, a lease.
A lease exists if realisable value NRV exercise.
These amounts are stated before the the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a allocation of overheads, which are excluded from the Groups NRV exercise.
period of time in exchange for consideration.
The Group assessment includes whether: Exceptional items the contract involves the use of an identified asset: Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, are material or unusual in nature or of such the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income benefits from the use of the asset throughout the contract period: and statement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.
Should these items be reversed, disclosure of this would also be as exceptional items.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 136 137 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Depreciation is charged so as to expense the cost or valuation of assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Interest receivable 1.
Significant accounting policies continued over their estimated useful lives.
Other assets are depreciated using the Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or The Group as a lessee straight-line method, on the following bases: Also included in interest receivable are interest and interest-related receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after At the commencement of a lease, the Group recognises a right-of-use payments the Group receives on other receivables.
Revenue and profit are recognised Plant and equipment 20-33% per annum asset along with a corresponding lease liability.
as follows: Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease Borrowing costs The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining a Private housing development properties and land sales Borrowing costs are recognised on an accruals basis and are payable on lease payments, discounted using the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is Revenue is recognised in the income statement when control is transferred The lease term comprises the non-cancellable period of the contract, the Groups borrowings and lease liabilities.
Also included in borrowing determined as the difference between the sale proceeds, less any to the customer, this is deemed to be when title of the property passes to together with periods covered by an option to extend the lease where the costs is the amortisation of fees associated with the arrangement of selling expenses, and the carrying amount of the asset.
This difference the customer on legal completion.
Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option based on operational is recognised in the income statement.
residential properties, whether under the Governments Help to Buy needs and contractual terms.
Subsequently, the lease liability is measured Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Scheme or not, is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received at amortised cost by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its or receivable on legal completion.
the lease liability, and reducing it by the lease payments made.
The lease income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication liability is remeasured when the Group changes its assessment of whether b Part exchange carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication it will exercise an extension or termination option.
the period in which they arise.
In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, comprising the initial sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by independent determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does Capitalised finance costs are held in other receivables and amortised over measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at surveyors, reduced for costs to sell.
Net proceeds generated from the not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group the period of the facility.
or before the commencement date, estimated asset retirement obligations, subsequent sale of part exchange properties are recorded as a reduction estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the lease incentives received and initial direct costs.
Subsequently, right-of-use Foreign currencies to net operating expenses.
The original sale is recorded in the normal way, asset belongs.
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and any with the fair value of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and accumulated impairment losses, and are adjusted for certain in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates c Cash incentives value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows remeasurements of the lease liability.
Depreciation is calculated on a its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that straight-line basis over the length of the lease.
currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities The Group has elected to apply exemptions for short-term leases and to revenue.
risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows that are denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional leases for which the underlying asset is of low value.
For these leases, have not been adjusted.
d Contracting work and partnership housing contracts currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, over the term of the relevant lease.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its revenue and costs are recognised over time with reference to the stage of denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at Right-of-use assets are presented within non-current assets on the face of recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on the balance sheet, and lease liabilities are shown separately on the balance unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, impairment losses normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
sheet in current liabilities and non-current liabilities depending on the length are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cash-generating unit.
contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent of the lease term.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the operation are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet Policy applicable prior to 1 January 2018 being reliably measured.
carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, date.
Income and expense items are translated at an appropriate average Rentals payable under operating leases were charged to the income tangible fixed assets must then be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, rate for the year.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
tangible fixed assets exceeds their carrying value, no further impairment is contract revenue where recoverability is probable is recognised to the comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Benefits received and receivable and costs paid and payable as an required.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Contract costs are recognised as Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the incentive to enter into an operating lease were also spread on a straight-line expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
basis over the lease term.
that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
The Group did not act as a lessor under any arrangement in the prior year.
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined Cost of sales Intangible assets translated at the closing rate.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating to hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries The Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales Brands unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as see page 138 for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect based on the total budgeted cost of developing a site.
Once the total Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
Acquired brands are income immediately.
expected costs of development are established they are allocated to capitalised.
Their values are calculated based on the Groups valuation individual plots to achieve a standard build cost per plot.
Financial instruments methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Leases Brands are stated at cost, less accumulated amortisation and any In the current year the Group adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified as the site During the year, the Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases using the modified accumulated impairment losses.
Brands are amortised over their The standard was applied retrospectively and comparative information has progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots unless they retrospective approach allowed under the standard.
Comparative estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
Further information on the adoption of IFRS 9 are specific to a particular plot, in which case they are recognised in the information has not been restated and continues to be reported under IAS and the impact on the financial position and performance of the Group for income statement at the point of sale.
Software development costs 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a the current and prior year can be found in Note 32.
The details of the current and prior years accounting policies are Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production Positive contribution Financial assets disclosed separately below.
Further information on the adoption and initial of identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and that The positive contribution presented on the face of the income statement application of IFRS 16 can be found in Note 19 and Note 32. generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently represents the net amount of previous impairments allocated to inventory assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are classified into one of the following measurement categories: Policy applicable from 1 January 2018 on a plot that has subsequently resulted in a gross profit on completion.
amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years from the time of This is due to the combination of selling prices and costs, or product mix measured at amortised cost: For contracts entered into on or after 1 January 2018, the Group assesses implementation, and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and improvements exceeding our market assumptions in the previous net at inception whether the contract is, or contains, a lease.
A lease exists if measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL : and any accumulated impairment losses.
These amounts are stated before the the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a measured subsequently at fair value through other comprehensive allocation of overheads, which are excluded from the Groups NRV exercise.
The Group assessment Property, plant and equipment income FVOCI.
includes whether: Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or Exceptional items The classification of financial assets depends on the Groups business services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet the contract involves the use of an identified asset: Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, model for managing the asset and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in the opinion of the Directors, are material or unusual in nature or of such the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic Assets that are held for the collection of contractual cash flows that losses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Buildings are depreciated over significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income benefits from the use of the asset throughout the contract period: and represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at 50 years.
statement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
amortised cost, with any interest income recognised in the income the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.
Should these items be reversed, disclosure of this would also be as Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
statement using the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets that do not meet the criteria to be measured at amortised cost are classified by the Group as measured at FVTPL.
Fair value gains and losses on financial assets measured at FVTPL are recognised in the income statement and presented within net operating expenses.
The Group currently has no financial assets measured at FVOCI.
138 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 1.
Significant accounting policies continued qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as Trade and other receivables they arise.
Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires loss allowance.
or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Shared equity loans accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Shared equity loans were provided to certain customers to facilitate a instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in house purchase.
The contractual cash flows on shared equity loans are accumulated other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction linked to a national house price index, which represents a non-closely occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net related embedded derivative.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets with cumulative gain or loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
If a derivative whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.
financial instrument does not meet the specific criteria of IFRS 9 Financial Accordingly, shared equity loans are classified as FVTPL with fair value Instruments for hedge accounting it is presented as a held for trading asset gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of the loan presented in the or liability.
income statement within net operating expenses.
Provisions Cash and cash equivalents Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best from inception and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses Inventories associated with its financial assets carried at amortised cost.
The impairment Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant date when acquired as part of a business combination and then held at the increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the lower of this initial amount and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those overheads that losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and Financial liabilities condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling classified into one of the following measurement categories: and distribution.
Land is recognised in inventory when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
measured at amortised cost: and Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory.
measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
They are reviewed regularly and written off to the income statement when it Non-derivative financial liabilities are measured at FVTPL when they are is probable that the option will not be exercised.
considered held for trading or designated as such on initial recognition.
Taxation The Group has no non-derivative financial liabilities measured at FVTPL.
The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Borrowings deferred tax.
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs Current tax incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Trade and other payables differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost.
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other Customer deposits years, and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have Customer deposits are measured at amortised cost and recorded as a been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
liability within other payables on receipt and released to the income statement as revenue upon legal completion.
Deferred tax Equity instruments Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the issued by the Parent Company are recorded as the proceeds are received, computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet net of direct issue costs.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
net investment exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference certain individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the Parent Company.
combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised directly in arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference immediately in the income statement.
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged foreseeable future.
item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the consolidated income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 138 139 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Employee benefits qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as The value of the defined benefit plan liabilities is determined by using Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax rates Trade and other receivables they arise.
various long term actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, and laws that have then been enacted or substantively enacted by the Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any growth, yields, returns on investments and mortality rates.
The value of the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires balance sheet date.
defined benefit scheme recorded on the balance sheet is currently subject or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Shared equity loans to IFRIC 14, which under certain circumstances requires an adjustment to accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Shared equity loans were provided to certain customers to facilitate a turn an accounting surplus into a liability equal to the present value of instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to house purchase.
The contractual cash flows on shared equity loans are committed future payments of the scheme.
Determining the IFRIC 14 accumulated other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction be recovered.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, linked to a national house price index, which represents a non-closely adjustment requires the use of actuarial assumptions to project forward the occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other related embedded derivative.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets with funding position of the scheme over the commitment period.
As actual cumulative gain or loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining changes in inflation, growth, yields and investment returns may differ from income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
If a derivative dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
whether their cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest.
those assumed, this is a key source of estimation uncertainty within the financial instrument does not meet the specific criteria of IFRS 9 Financial Accordingly, shared equity loans are classified as FVTPL with fair value financial statements.
Changes in these assumptions over time and Instruments for hedge accounting it is presented as a held for trading asset Share-based payments gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of the loan presented in the differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the statement of or liability.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain income statement within net operating expenses.
Note 21 details the main assumptions in employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured Provisions accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension scheme along with Cash and cash equivalents at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as sensitivities of the liabilities to changes in these assumptions.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required estimate of shares that will eventually vest after adjusting for the short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less Other sources of estimation uncertainty to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best effect of non-market vesting conditions.
from inception and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance Provision for leasehold sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Impairment of financial assets Employee benefits The value of this provision has been established using information The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the expected credit losses The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 available to Management at 31 December 2018, together with a range Inventories associated with its financial assets carried at amortised cost.
The impairment Employee benefits amended 2014.
In respect of defined benefit plans, of assumptions including the number of units which have been sold by Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant a finance charge is determined on the net defined benefit pension liability.
the original Taylor Wimpey customer and as such are not eligible for the date when acquired as part of a business combination and then held at the increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately scheme, and the final deed of variation valuations for those freeholders lower of this initial amount and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime in the income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the with whom the Group has not yet agreed a settlement.
materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those overheads that losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
service period of employees, past service costs are recognised as an have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and expense at the earlier of when the plan is amended or curtailment occurs, Cost allocation Financial liabilities condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all at the same time as which the entity will recognise related restructuring costs In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling or termination benefits.
Certain liability management costs and financing its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide classified into one of the following measurement categories: and distribution.
Land is recognised in inventory when the significant risks costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and development costs between units built in the current year and in future and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
measured at amortised cost: and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments, Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory.
and make estimates relating to future sales price margins on those measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement They are reviewed regularly and written off to the income statement when it developments and units.
In making these assessments there is a degree of of financial position represents either the net liability deficit position of the Non-derivative financial liabilities are measured at FVTPL when they are is probable that the option will not be exercised.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess scheme or, should the scheme be in an IAS 19 accounting surplus, considered held for trading or designated as such on initial recognition.
and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
the IFRIC 14 liability equal to the present value of future committed Taxation The Group has no non-derivative financial liabilities measured at FVTPL.
The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Aluminium Composite Materials ACM provision Borrowings deferred tax.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense This provision was established to provide for the cost of replacing ACM Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs as they fall due.
cladding on a small number of legacy buildings.
The Group has estimated Current tax incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
the cost of replacement based on engagement with contractors and, The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Trade and other payables where applicable, the management companies of the effected developments.
differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it estimation uncertainty Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost.
Determining the total cost of replacing cladding across a number of excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other different buildings contains inherent estimation uncertainty.
The scope Preparation of the financial statements requires Management to make Customer deposits years, and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
of the replacement may also be impacted by future Government guidance significant judgements and estimates.
Management have considered The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have Customer deposits are measured at amortised cost and recorded as a or regulations.
whether there are any such sources of estimation or accounting been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
liability within other payables on receipt and released to the income judgements in forming the financial statements and highlight the following statement as revenue upon legal completion.
General information Deferred tax areas.
In identifying these areas Management have considered the size of Taylor Wimpey plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under Equity instruments the associated balance and the potential likelihood of changes due to Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on macro-economic factors.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in page 191.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Critical accounting judgements are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56. issued by the Parent Company are recorded as the proceeds are received, computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet Management have not made any individual critical accounting judgements net of direct issue costs.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is that are material to the Group, apart from those estimations which are set taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting out below.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy set The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty net investment exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference certain individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies Key sources of estimation uncertainty are those which present a significant arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the Parent Company.
risk of potential material misstatement to carrying amounts of assets or combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects liabilities within the next financial year.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
140 140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups continuing revenue is as follows: million 2018 2017 Housing: 3,550.5 3,532.2 Private sales Partnership housing 465.3 365.6 Other 9.6 27.9 Total housing 4,025.4 3,925.7 56.6 39.5 Land sales 4,082.0 3,965.2 Revenue for the year Partnership housing includes 361.6 million 2017: 288.8 million of revenue from construction contracts that are recognised over time by reference to the stage of completion of the contract with the customer.
All other revenue is recognised at a point in time when control of the property is transferred to the customer.
Housing revenue includes 281.3 million 2017: 239.5 million generated where the sale has been achieved using part exchange incentives.
Other revenue includes income from the sale of commercial properties developed as part of larger residential developments and the sale of leasehold properties.
As at 31 December 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations is 448.0 million, of which approximately half is expected to be recognised as revenue during 2019.
As permitted under the transition provisions of IFRS 15, the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as at 31 December 2017 has not been disclosed.
Operating segments The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, each managed by a Divisional Chair who sits on the Group Management Team.
In addition, there is an operating segment covering the corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 1.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of central administration costs including Divisional and Group salaries.
Segment information about these businesses is presented below: Central London & South & South For the year to 31 December 2018 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Revenue External sales 1,418.7 1,347.2 1,210.3 1.6 104.2 4,082.0 Result Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 307.0 344.7 265.3 71.3 29.2 874.9 0.1 5.3 0.1 5.3 Share of results of joint ventures Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share of results of joint ventures 307.1 344.7 270.6 71.4 29.2 880.2 Exceptional items Note 6 46.1 46.1 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures and exceptional items 307.1 344.7 270.6 117.5 29.2 834.1 Net finance costs 23.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 810.7 154.1 Taxation including exceptional tax Profit for the year 656.6 Central London & South & South As at 31 December 2018 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Assets and liabilities Segment operating assets 1,213.0 1,290.7 1,504.3 254.0 168.5 4,430.5 Joint ventures 2.0 3.7 40.5 2.1 48.3 Segment operating liabilities 375.5 520.9 510.0 355.0 105.5 1,866.9 Net operating assets liabilities 839.5 773.5 1,034.8 98.9 63.0 2,611.9 Net current taxation 69.9 Net deferred taxation 40.7 Net cash 644.1 Net assets 3,226.8 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 140 141 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating segments continued An analysis of the Groups continuing revenue is as follows: Central London & South & South million 2018 2017 For the year to 31 December 2018 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Housing: Other information 3,550.5 3,532.2 Private sales Property, plant and equipment additions 0.2 0.8 1.0 0.1 2.1 Partnership housing 465.3 365.6 Right-of-use asset additions 1.5 0.8 5.7 2.5 0.2 10.7 Other 9.6 27.9 Software development additions 0.3 0.3 Total housing 4,025.4 3,925.7 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.6 0.9 0.5 1.1 3.1 56.6 39.5 Land sales Right-of-use asset depreciation 2.5 1.5 2.6 2.2 0.2 9.0 4,082.0 3,965.2 Revenue for the year Software amortisation 1.0 1.0 Partnership housing includes 361.6 million 2017: 288.8 million of revenue from construction contracts that are recognised over time by reference to the stage of completion of the contract with the customer.
All other revenue is recognised at a point in time when control of the property is transferred Central London to the customer.
& South & South For the year to 31 December 2017 North West East Housing revenue includes 281.3 million 2017: 239.5 million generated where the sale has been achieved using part exchange incentives.
Other revenue million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total includes income from the sale of commercial properties developed as part of larger residential developments and the sale of leasehold properties.
Revenue As at 31 December 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations is 448.0 million, of which External sales 1,334.5 1,291.2 1,236.3 9.0 94.2 3,965.2 approximately half is expected to be recognised as revenue during 2019.
As permitted under the transition provisions of IFRS 15, the transaction price Result allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations as at 31 December 2017 has not been disclosed.
Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 295.4 318.0 263.1 66.8 26.8 836.5 5.
Operating segments Share of results of joint ventures 0.5 8.3 0.2 7.6 The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, each managed by a Divisional Chair who sits on the Group Management Team.
of results of joint ventures 294.9 318.0 271.4 67.0 26.8 844.1 In addition, there is an operating segment covering the corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
Exceptional items Note 6 130.0 130.0 The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 1.
Segment profit represents Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures the profit earned by each segment without allocation of central administration costs including Divisional and Group salaries.
and exceptional items 294.9 318.0 271.4 197.0 26.8 714.1 Segment information about these businesses is presented below: Net finance costs 32.1 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 682.0 Central London & South & South Taxation including exceptional tax 126.7 For the year to 31 December 2018 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Profit for the year 555.3 Revenue External sales 1,418.7 1,347.2 1,210.3 1.6 104.2 4,082.0 Central London & South & South Result As at 31 December 2017 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 307.0 344.7 265.3 71.3 29.2 874.9 0.1 5.3 0.1 5.3 Assets and liabilities Share of results of joint ventures 1,192.5 1,233.2 1,501.3 212.7 145.0 4,284.7 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share Segment operating assets of results of joint ventures 307.1 344.7 270.6 71.4 29.2 880.2 Joint ventures 2.1 3.5 42.3 3.0 50.9 Exceptional items Note 6 46.1 46.1 Segment operating liabilities 353.9 486.9 486.9 264.2 89.6 1,681.5 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures Net operating assets liabilities 840.7 749.8 1,056.7 48.5 55.4 2,654.1 and exceptional items 307.1 344.7 270.6 117.5 29.2 834.1 57.9 Net current taxation Net finance costs 23.4 Net deferred taxation 29.3 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 810.7 Net cash 511.8 154.1 Taxation including exceptional tax Net assets 3,137.3 Profit for the year 656.6 Central London Central London & South & South & South & South For the year to 31 December 2017 North West East As at 31 December 2018 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Other information Assets and liabilities Property, plant and equipment additions 0.7 0.7 0.9 1.9 4.2 Segment operating assets 1,213.0 1,290.7 1,504.3 254.0 168.5 4,430.5 Software development additions 1.5 1.5 Joint ventures 2.0 3.7 40.5 2.1 48.3 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.1 0.9 0.4 0.9 2.3 Segment operating liabilities 375.5 520.9 510.0 355.0 105.5 1,866.9 Software amortisation 1.1 1.1 Net operating assets liabilities 839.5 773.5 1,034.8 98.9 63.0 2,611.9 Net current taxation 69.9 Net deferred taxation 40.7 Net cash 644.1 Net assets 3,226.8 142 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2018 2017 Administration expenses 212.9 201.9 3.9 8.7 Other expense Other income 17.2 15.3 Exceptional items 46.1 130.0 Other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant and equipment and the revaluation of certain shared equity mortgage receivables, pre-acquisition and abortive costs, and profit loss on the sale of part exchange properties.
Exceptional items: million 2018 2017 Provision in relation to Aluminium Composite Materials cladding 30.0 Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation charge 16.1 130.0 Exceptional item recognised in relation to leasehold Exceptional items 46.1 130.0 Aluminium Composite Materials ACM Cladding provision Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower, the Group conducted a detailed review into all legacy and current buildings ACM cladding and worked with building owners, management companies, and the Fire Service to implement Government advice on interim mitigation measures, where applicable.
Whilst each situation is different, and this is an exceptionally complex issue, the Group has in a number of cases, having regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances, agreed to support customers both financially and practically with removal and replacement of ACM cladding, even though the buildings concerned met the requirements of building regulations at the time construction was formally approved.
This decision was taken for buildings recently constructed by the Group because Management believe that it is morally right, not because it is legally required.
At the year end, replacement works had been completed on one development and were underway on another.
Since the year end work started on a further development.
Uncertainty over the remediation costs will remain until all the works are fully designed and contracted.
Following the creation of the exceptional provision, the Government issued further guidance which the Group considered as part of its ongoing review.
As at 31 December 2018, 30.0 million continues to represent Managements best estimate of the cost of replacing the cladding at all buildings identified.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation A High Court judgement handed down in October 2018, relating to defined benefit pension schemes, held that the GMP element of pension accrued by men and women should be comparable and any additional obligation required to equalise the members benefits must be allowed for in the scheme liabilities.
The additional obligation is considered a past service cost and recognised through the income statement in accordance with IAS 19.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group has estimated that the additional obligation required to equalise benefits accrued under the Groups defined benefit pension scheme is 16.1 million and has recognised this amount as an exceptional past service cost in the current year income statement.
The impact of future changes in estimates and assumptions related to the equalisation of GMP will be accounted for as scheme experience and recognised in other comprehensive income.
Leasehold provision Following concerns raised by certain customers in the latter part of 2016 relating to the mortgageability and saleability of their homes due to the ground rents structure in their leases, the Group undertook a review of historic leasehold structures on developments which were commenced between 2007 and 2011.
As a result of this review, in order to address these concerns and to make the future ground rent more affordable, a voluntary help scheme the Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent Review Assistance Scheme GRRAS, was announced in April 2017, together with a provision of 130.0 million.
This was designed to help affected customers to convert the ground rent structure of their leases from one which doubles every ten years until the fiftieth anniversary, to one based on RPI.
As part of the GRRAS, the Group have completed negotiations with the respective freehold owners of virtually all the leasehold homes to convert our customers leases to an RPI structure, with the Group bearing the financial cost of doing so.
The provision was calculated using a range of assumptions including the total number of properties owned by each freeholder and whether the applications are likely to fall within the eligibility criteria of the GRRAS.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 142 143 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs continued Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2018 2017 million 2018 2017 Administration expenses 212.9 201.9 Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales 2,921.1 2,794.6 3.9 8.7 3.1 2.3 Other expense Property, plant and equipment depreciation Other income 17.2 15.3 Right-of-use assets depreciation 9.0 Exceptional items 46.1 130.0 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 1.0 1.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant and equipment and the revaluation of certain shared equity mortgage receivables, Payments under operating leases 6.4 pre-acquisition and abortive costs, and profit loss on the sale of part exchange properties.
Under IFRS 16 Leases, which the Group adopted in the current year, payments under operating leases are not charged to the income statement.
Exceptional items: million 2018 2017 The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, is as follows: Provision in relation to Aluminium Composite Materials cladding 30.0 million 2018 2017 Guaranteed Minimum Pension equalisation charge 16.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated 130.0 financial statements 0.2 0.1 Exceptional item recognised in relation to leasehold Exceptional items 46.1 130.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Aluminium Composite Materials ACM Cladding provision Total audit fees 0.5 0.4 Following the tragic fire at Grenfell Tower, the Group conducted a detailed review into all legacy and current buildings ACM cladding and worked with Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 building owners, management companies, and the Fire Service to implement Government advice on interim mitigation measures, where applicable.
Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Whilst each situation is different, and this is an exceptionally complex issue, the Group has in a number of cases, having regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances, agreed to support customers both financially and practically with removal and replacement of ACM cladding, even though the buildings Total fees 0.6 0.5 concerned met the requirements of building regulations at the time construction was formally approved.
At the year end, replacement works had Non-audit services in 2018 and 2017 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditor, or work resulting from been completed on one development and were underway on another.
knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
The work was either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the Groups auditor because of its knowledge of the Group.
In 2018, non-audit fees also include 23 thousand 2017: 54 thousand of other services related Uncertainty over the remediation costs will remain until all the works are fully designed and contracted.
Following the creation of the exceptional provision, to consultancy.
the Government issued further guidance which the Group considered as part of its ongoing review.
Staff costs Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation 2018 2017 Number Number A High Court judgement handed down in October 2018, relating to defined benefit pension schemes, held that the GMP element of pension accrued by men and women should be comparable and any additional obligation required to equalise the members benefits must be allowed for in the Average number employed scheme liabilities.
5,358 4,893 United Kingdom As at 31 December 2018, the Group has estimated that the additional obligation required to equalise benefits accrued under the Groups defined benefit Spain 84 102 pension scheme is 16.1 million and has recognised this amount as an exceptional past service cost in the current year income statement.
The impact of 5,442 4,995 future changes in estimates and assumptions related to the equalisation of GMP will be accounted for as scheme experience and recognised in other comprehensive income.
million 2018 2017 Leasehold provision Remuneration Following concerns raised by certain customers in the latter part of 2016 relating to the mortgageability and saleability of their homes due to the ground 258.0 235.2 Wages and salaries rents structure in their leases, the Group undertook a review of historic leasehold structures on developments which were commenced between 2007 and 2011.
As a result of this review, in order to address these concerns and to make the future ground rent more affordable, a voluntary help scheme the Redundancy costs 0.4 Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent Review Assistance Scheme GRRAS, was announced in April 2017, together with a provision of 130.0 million.
This was Social security costs 27.7 25.8 designed to help affected customers to convert the ground rent structure of their leases from one which doubles every ten years until the fiftieth anniversary, Other pension costs 12.4 10.4 to one based on RPI.
298.5 271.4 As part of the GRRAS, the Group have completed negotiations with the respective freehold owners of virtually all the leasehold homes to convert our customers leases to an RPI structure, with the Group bearing the financial cost of doing so.
The provision was calculated using a range of assumptions The information relating to Director and Senior Management remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial including the total number of properties owned by each freeholder and whether the applications are likely to fall within the eligibility criteria of the GRRAS.
Conduct Authority is contained in Note 30 and pages 96 to 116 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Finance costs and interest receivable million 2018 2017 Interest receivable 2.9 0.8 Finance costs are analysed as follows: million 2018 2017 5.2 6.0 Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans Foreign exchange movements 1.0 0.1 6.2 6.1 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other items 18.5 20.9 0.5 Interest on IFRS 16 lease liabilities Net notional interest on pension liability Note 21 1.1 5.9 26.3 32.9 144 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation Tax charged credited in the income statement is analysed as follows: million 2018 2017 Current tax: 143.4 122.6 UK corporation tax: Current year Adjustment in respect of prior years 5.3 1.5 Foreign tax: Current year 3.6 3.3 152.3 124.4 Deferred tax: 4.1 2.8 UK: Current year Adjustment in respect of prior years 3.7 Foreign tax: Current year 1.4 0.5 1.8 2.3 154.1 126.7 Corporation tax is calculated at 19.0% 2017: 19.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The effective tax rate, before exceptional items, is 18.9% 2017:18.7%.
The tax charge for the year includes credits of 5.1 million in respect of the exceptional provision for ACM cladding replacement and 3.1 million relating to the exceptional charge for the impact of GMP equalisation on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The tax charge for the prior year includes a credit of 25.0 million in respect of the exceptional charge relating to the leasehold review.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: million 2018 2017 810.7 682.0 Profit before tax Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 154.0 131.3 Net under over provision in respect of prior years 1.7 1.5 Net impact of items that are not taxable or deductible 1.7 0.2 2.3 3.9 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to Spanish business Other rate impacting adjustments 2.4 1.0 Tax charge for the year 154.1 126.7 10.
Earnings per share 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 20.1p 17.0p 20.0p 16.9p Diluted earnings per share Adjusted basic earnings per share 21.3p 20.2p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21.2p 20.1p Weighted average number of shares for basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,266.3 3,264.0 Weighted average number of shares for diluted basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,275.7 3,280.4 Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items and any associated net tax charges, are presented to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity shareholders used for basic and diluted earnings per share to that used for adjusted earnings per share is shown below.
million 2018 2017 Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 656.6 555.3 Adjust for exceptional items Note 6 46.1 130.0 Adjust for tax on exceptional items Note 6 8.2 25.0 Earnings for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 694.5 660.3 Million 2018 2017 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 3,266.3 3,264.0 Long term incentive share options 6.9 9.2 SAYE options 2.5 7.2 3,275.7 3,280.4 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 144 145 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Intangible assets Tax charged credited in the income statement is analysed as follows: Software development million 2018 2017 million Brands costs Total Current tax: Cost 143.4 122.6 UK corporation tax: Current year At 1 January 2017 140.2 10.0 150.2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 5.3 1.5 Additions 1.5 1.5 Foreign tax: Current year 3.6 3.3 At 31 December 2017 140.2 11.5 151.7 152.3 124.4 Additions 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax: 140.2 11.8 152.0 At 31 December 2018 4.1 2.8 UK: Current year Adjustment in respect of prior years 3.7 Amortisation impairment Foreign tax: Current year 1.4 0.5 At 1 January 2017 140.2 6.5 146.7 1.8 2.3 Charge for the year 1.1 1.1 154.1 126.7 At 31 December 2017 140.2 7.6 147.8 1.0 1.0 Charge for the year Corporation tax is calculated at 19.0% 2017: 19.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated At 31 December 2018 140.2 8.6 148.8 at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The tax charge for the year includes credits of 5.1 million in respect of the exceptional provision for ACM cladding replacement and 3.1 million relating to Carrying amount the exceptional charge for the impact of GMP equalisation on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
3.2 3.2 31 December 2018 3.9 3.9 The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 31 December 2017 million 2018 2017 The Group has assessed its brands and their associated values and has concluded that given the majority of the legacy brands are currently not used, 810.7 682.0 Profit before tax it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.0% 2017: 19.25% 154.0 131.3 The amortisation of software development costs is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
Net under over provision in respect of prior years 1.7 1.5 12.
Property, plant and equipment Net impact of items that are not taxable or deductible 1.7 0.2 Plant, 2.3 3.9 Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to Spanish business equipment Other rate impacting adjustments 2.4 1.0 Freehold land and leasehold million and buildings improvements Total Tax charge for the year 154.1 126.7 Cost At 1 January 2017 15.0 17.2 32.2 10.
Earnings per share Additions 1.4 2.8 4.2 2018 2017 Disposals 1.0 1.0 Basic earnings per share 20.1p 17.0p 16.4 19.0 35.4 20.0p 16.9p At 31 December 2017 Diluted earnings per share Additions 0.1 2.0 2.1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 21.3p 20.2p Disposals 0.3 0.2 0.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21.2p 20.1p At 31 December 2018 16.2 20.8 37.0 Weighted average number of shares for basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,266.3 3,264.0 Weighted average number of shares for diluted basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,275.7 3,280.4 Accumulated depreciation 1.2 10.0 11.2 At 1 January 2017 Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items and any associated net tax charges, are presented Disposals 0.9 0.9 to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity shareholders used for basic and diluted Charge for the year 0.5 1.8 2.3 earnings per share to that used for adjusted earnings per share is shown below.
At 31 December 2017 1.7 10.9 12.6 million 2018 2017 0.1 0.2 0.3 Disposals Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 656.6 555.3 Charge for the year 0.6 2.5 3.1 Adjust for exceptional items Note 6 46.1 130.0 At 31 December 2018 2.2 13.2 15.4 Adjust for tax on exceptional items Note 6 8.2 25.0 Earnings for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 694.5 660.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 14.0 7.6 21.6 Million 2018 2017 At 31 December 2017 14.7 8.1 22.8 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 3,266.3 3,264.0 Long term incentive share options 6.9 9.2 SAYE options 2.5 7.2 3,275.7 3,280.4 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 146 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures million 2018 2017 Aggregated amounts relating to share of joint ventures: Non-current assets 19.4 6.7 Current assets 78.0 79.5 Total assets 97.4 86.2 22.0 16.6 Current liabilities Non-current liabilities 63.4 49.3 Total liabilities 85.4 65.9 Carrying amount 15.2 20.3 Loans to joint ventures 33.1 30.6 Total interests in joint ventures 48.3 50.9 Loans to joint ventures includes 3.2 million 2017: nil relating to the Groups share of losses recognised under the equity method in excess of the investment in ordinary shares.
million 2018 2017 Group share of: 72.3 93.2 Revenue Cost of sales 60.3 82.1 Gross profit 12.0 11.1 Net operating expenses 3.4 1.0 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 8.6 10.1 Finance costs 1.9 0.4 6.7 9.7 Profit on ordinary activities before tax Taxation 1.4 2.1 Share of joint ventures post-tax results for the year 5.3 7.6 The Group has five material 2017: five joint ventures whose principal activity is residential housebuilding or development.
The Group considers a joint venture to be material when it is financially or strategically important to the Group.
The particulars of the material joint ventures for 2018 are as follows: Taylor Wimpey plc interest in the Country of incorporation Name of joint venture equity accounted in the consolidated accounts issued ordinary share capital Greenwich Millennium Village Limited 50% United Kingdom United Kingdom Chobham Manor Limited Liability Partnership 50% United Kingdom Winstanley and York Road Regeneration LLP 50% United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Development Company Phase 1a Limited 50% United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited 50% Interest held by subsidiary undertakings.
Further information of the particulars of joint ventures can be found on pages 174 to 177.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 146 147 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued million 2018 2017 The following two tables show summary financial information for the material joint ventures.
Unless specifically indicated, this information represents 100% of the joint venture before intercompany eliminations.
Aggregated amounts relating to share of joint ventures: Whitehill & Non-current assets 19.4 6.7 Bordon Whitehill & Current assets 78.0 79.5 Greenwich Winstanley and Development Bordon Millennium Chobham York Road Company Regeneration Total assets 97.4 86.2 Village Manor Regeneration Phase 1a Company Total million 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 22.0 16.6 Current liabilities Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% Non-current liabilities 63.4 49.3 0.4 0.3 32.6 33.3 Non-current assets Total liabilities 85.4 65.9 Current assets 24.6 53.3 34.2 20.5 0.7 133.3 Cash and cash equivalents 4.3 4.2 0.4 1.9 0.5 11.3 Carrying amount 15.2 20.3 Current financial liabilities 3.5 27.0 1.5 4.6 3.7 40.3 Current other liabilities 2.5 2.5 Loans to joint ventures 33.1 30.6 Non-current financial liabilities 4.2 28.8 39.4 19.2 29.1 120.7 Total interests in joint ventures 48.3 50.9 Net assets liabilities 100% 19.1 1.7 6.3 1.1 1.0 14.4 Loans to joint ventures includes 3.2 million 2017: nil relating to the Groups share of losses recognised under the equity method in excess of the Group share of net assets liabilities 9.6 0.9 3.2 0.6 0.5 7.2 investment in ordinary shares.
Loans to joint ventures 13.3 17.1 1.2 1.6 33.2 million 2018 2017 Total interests in material joint ventures 9.6 14.2 13.9 0.6 2.1 40.4 Group share of: Revenue 68.3 47.9 5.5 22.9 144.6 72.3 93.2 Revenue Interest expense 0.4 1.5 1.3 0.7 3.9 Cost of sales 60.3 82.1 Income tax expense credit 2.8 0.2 0.1 2.7 Gross profit 12.0 11.1 Profit loss for the year 12.0 5.2 5.8 0.7 0.1 10.6 Net operating expenses 3.4 1.0 Group share of profit loss for the year 6.0 2.6 2.9 0.3 0.1 5.3 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 8.6 10.1 Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to joint venture partners Finance costs 1.9 0.4 During the year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation.
No entity had discontinued operations or items of other comprehensive income.
6.7 9.7 Profit on ordinary activities before tax Whitehill & Taxation 1.4 2.1 Bordon Whitehill & Share of joint ventures post-tax results for the year 5.3 7.6 Greenwich Winstanley and Development Bordon Millennium Chobham York Road Company Regeneration Village Manor Regeneration Phase 1a Company Total The Group has five material 2017: five joint ventures whose principal activity is residential housebuilding or development.
The Group considers a million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 joint venture to be material when it is financially or strategically important to the Group.
Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% The particulars of the material joint ventures for 2018 are as follows: Non-current assets 1.0 9.9 10.9 Taylor Wimpey plc interest in the Current assets 37.9 29.8 17.4 14.4 16.8 116.3 Country of incorporation Name of joint venture equity accounted in the consolidated accounts issued ordinary share capital Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 14.3 0.7 5.9 1.3 27.7 Greenwich Millennium Village Limited 50% United Kingdom Current financial liabilities 2.1 13.0 0.7 7.0 7.2 30.0 United Kingdom Chobham Manor Limited Liability Partnership 50% Current other liabilities 2.2 2.2 United Kingdom Winstanley and York Road Regeneration LLP 50% Non-current financial liabilities 6.1 34.7 18.0 13.7 20.0 92.5 United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Development Company Phase 1a Limited 50% Net assets liabilities 100% 34.0 3.6 0.6 0.4 0.8 30.2 United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited 50% Group share of net assets liabilities 17.0 1.8 0.3 0.2 0.4 15.1 Interest held by subsidiary undertakings.
Loans to joint ventures 16.8 4.7 3.8 2.6 27.9 Further information of the particulars of joint ventures can be found on pages 174 to 177.
Total interests in material joint ventures 17.0 15.0 4.4 3.6 3.0 43.0 Revenue 69.6 94.9 22.0 186.5 Interest expense 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.9 2.9 2.9 Income tax expense 12.4 5.1 0.5 0.5 0.4 16.1 Profit loss for the year Group share of profit loss for the year 6.2 2.6 0.3 0.2 0.2 8.1 Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to joint venture partners.
During the year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation.
148 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued million 2018 2017 Aggregated amounts relating to share of individually immaterial joint ventures Non-current assets 2.7 1.2 Current assets 5.7 7.5 Total assets 8.4 8.7 Current liabilities 0.6 0.5 3.0 3.0 Non-current liabilities 3.6 3.5 Total liabilities Carrying amount 4.8 5.2 Loans to individually immaterial joint ventures 3.1 2.7 Total interests in individually immaterial joint ventures 7.9 7.9 million 2018 2017 Group share of: Revenue Cost of sales 0.1 0.1 Gross profit Net operating expense 0.1 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs Finance costs 0.1 Loss profit on ordinary activities before tax 0.1 0.4 Taxation 0.5 Share of individually immaterial joint ventures results for the year 14.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
ShareRetirement Other based Capital benefit temporary million payments allowances Losses obligations differences Total 4.8 3.4 8.8 40.0 0.4 57.4 At 1 January 2017 Charge credit to income 0.2 0.3 0.3 2.8 0.7 2.3 Charge to other comprehensive income 26.5 26.5 0.4 0.4 Credit to statement of changes in equity Foreign exchange 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 5.0 3.1 9.4 10.7 1.1 29.3 Impact of IFRS 16 adoption Note 32 0.3 0.3 Charge credit to income 0.7 0.7 1.1 2.8 3.5 1.8 Credit to other comprehensive income 14.7 14.7 Charge to statement of changes in equity 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2018 2.3 2.4 8.5 22.6 4.9 40.7 Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply for the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Accordingly, the temporary differences have been calculated at rates between 19% and 17% 2017: 19% and 17%.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 148 149 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued 14.
Deferred tax continued million 2018 2017 The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: Aggregated amounts relating to share of individually immaterial joint ventures million 2018 2017 Non-current assets 2.7 1.2 Deferred tax assets 42.1 30.9 Current assets 5.7 7.5 1.4 1.6 Deferred tax liabilities Total assets 8.4 8.7 40.7 29.3 Current liabilities 0.6 0.5 The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences amounting to 3.0 million 3.0 3.0 Non-current liabilities 2017: 2.8 million in the UK and 47.8 million 2017: 58.0 million in Spain.
The UK temporary differences have not been recognised as they are 3.6 3.5 Total liabilities predominantly non-trading in nature and insufficient certainty exists as to their future utilisation.
The temporary differences in Spain have not been recognised due to uncertainty of sufficient taxable profits in the future against which to utilise these amounts.
Carrying amount 4.8 5.2 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 269.6 million 2017: 269.6 million.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in Loans to individually immaterial joint ventures 3.1 2.7 respect of the capital losses at 31 December 2018 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Total interests in individually immaterial joint ventures 7.9 7.9 15.
Inventories million 2018 2017 million 2018 2017 Group share of: 1.8 1.9 Raw materials and consumables Revenue Finished goods and goods for resale 43.3 24.0 Cost of sales 0.1 Residential developments: 0.1 Gross profit 2,757.7 2,682.6 Land Net operating expense 0.1 Development and construction costs 1,378.9 1,360.0 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 6.5 7.2 Finance costs 0.1 4,188.2 4,075.7 Loss profit on ordinary activities before tax 0.1 Details of land creditors are in Note 18.
0.4 Taxation During the year, contract costs of 266.5 million 2017: 212.2 million have been recognised within Cost of Sales in respect of construction contracts 0.5 Share of individually immaterial joint ventures results for the year where revenue is recognised on an over-time basis.
The markets in our core geographies, which are the primary drivers of our business, continue to trade positively.
However, we are alert to the potential risk 14.
Deferred tax of a change in customer confidence given the on-going Brexit negotiations.
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
At 31 December 2018, the Group completed a net realisable value assessment of inventory with these factors in mind.
This review did not result in any net ShareRetirement Other change to the total provision 2017: no net change but resulted in a reallocation of 1.1 million 2017: 2.4 million of historically booked provision between based Capital benefit temporary two sites which continue to hold a provision due to poor site location and complex site requirements.
There was no further change to the provision.
million payments allowances Losses obligations differences Total At the balance sheet date, the Group held land and work in progress in the UK that had been written down to net realisable value of 46.6 million 4.8 3.4 8.8 40.0 0.4 57.4 At 1 January 2017 2017: 69.9 million with associated impairments of 38.7 million 2017: 46.9 million.
As at 31 December 2018, 2% 31 December 2017: 2% of the Charge credit to income 0.2 0.3 0.3 2.8 0.7 2.3 UK short term owned and controlled land is impaired.
In the year 2% 2017: 5% of the Groups UK completions were from pre-2009 impaired sites.
Charge to other comprehensive income 26.5 26.5 In the year, 17 plots 2017: 35 plots were completed in Spain that had previously been impaired.
At 31 December 2018, Spain had land and work 0.4 0.4 Credit to statement of changes in equity in progress that has been written down to net realisable value of 27.2 million 2017: 17.7 million with associated impairments of 44.3 million Foreign exchange 0.3 0.3 2017: 46.4 million.
At 31 December 2017 5.0 3.1 9.4 10.7 1.1 29.3 The table below details the movements on the inventory provision recorded in the year.
Impact of IFRS 16 adoption Note 32 0.3 0.3 Inventory provision million 2018 2017 Charge credit to income 0.7 0.7 1.1 2.8 3.5 1.8 1 January 93.3 147.0 Credit to other comprehensive income 14.7 14.7 Utilised 10.8 52.9 Charge to statement of changes in equity 2.0 2.0 Foreign exchange 0.5 0.8 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 31 December 83.0 93.3 At 31 December 2018 2.3 2.4 8.5 22.6 4.9 40.7 Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply for the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
150 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Other financial assets Trade and other receivables Current Non-current million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Trade receivables 105.3 76.9 43.2 56.4 Other receivables 29.4 45.3 12.5 3.7 134.7 122.2 55.7 60.1 Included within trade receivables are mortgage receivables of 45.3 million 2017: 63.1 million including shared equity loans.
Shared equity loans are provided to certain customers to facilitate their house purchase and are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Included within trade receivables is 2.8 million 2017: 1.3 million of retentions in relation to partnership housing contracts.
Cash and cash equivalents million 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 734.2 600.5 Further information on financial assets can be found in Note 20.
Bank and other loans million 2018 2017 100.0 million 2.02% Senior Loan Notes 2023 90.1 88.7 90.1 88.7 million 2018 2017 Amount due for settlement after one year 90.1 88.7 Total borrowings 90.1 88.7 million 2018 2017 Analysis of borrowings by currency: Euros 90.1 88.7 90.1 88.7 18.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Trade payables 854.5 785.4 412.9 341.6 65.1 75.8 10.6 10.6 Customer deposits Completed site accruals 106.8 128.6 41.3 46.3 Other payables 17.9 34.7 26.5 32.1 1,044.3 1,024.5 491.3 430.6 Revenue recognised in the current year that was included in the customer deposit balance carried forward at the beginning of the period was 75.8 million 2017: 88.7 million.
Other payables include 31.8 million 2017: 48.0 million of repayable grants.
Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: million 2018 2017 Due within one year 359.5 319.5 Due in more than one year 379.1 319.6 738.6 639.1 Land creditors are denominated as follows: million 2018 2017 Sterling 715.7 618.3 Euros 22.9 20.8 738.6 639.1 Land creditors of 367.1 million 2017: 489.6 million are secured against land acquired for development.
Further information on financial liabilities can be found in Note 20.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 150 151 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Leases The Group adopted IFRS 16 with an initial application date of 1 January 2018.
The Group applied the modified retrospective approach and comparative Trade and other receivables information has not been presented.
Further information on the adoption of IFRS 16 can be found in Note 32.
Current Non-current million 2018 2017 2018 2017 The Group as a lessee Trade receivables 105.3 76.9 43.2 56.4 The Groups leases consist primarily of office premises and equipment.
Information about leases for which the Group is a lessee is presented below.
Other receivables 29.4 45.3 12.5 3.7 Right-of-use assets 134.7 122.2 55.7 60.1 Office million premises Equipment Total Included within trade receivables are mortgage receivables of 45.3 million 2017: 63.1 million including shared equity loans.
Shared equity loans are At 1 January 2018 15.8 10.7 26.5 provided to certain customers to facilitate their house purchase and are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
18.2 8.9 27.1 At 31 December 2018 Included within trade receivables is 2.8 million 2017: 1.3 million of retentions in relation to partnership housing contracts.
7.3 3.4 10.7 Additions during the year Cash and cash equivalents million 2018 2017 Lease liabilities included in the balance sheet: million 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 734.2 600.5 Current 8.2 Further information on financial assets can be found in Note 20.
Bank and other loans million 2018 2017 Amounts recognised in the income statement: 100.0 million 2.02% Senior Loan Notes 2023 90.1 88.7 million 2018 90.1 88.7 3.9 Depreciation charged on right-of-use office premises Depreciation charged on right-of-use equipment 5.1 million 2018 2017 Interest on lease liabilities 0.5 Amount due for settlement after one year 90.1 88.7 Total 9.5 Total borrowings 90.1 88.7 The total cash outflow for leases during the current year was 8.8 million, including 0.5 million of interest.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Analysis of borrowings by currency: Capital management Euros 90.1 88.7 The Groups policy is to maintain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure.
Shareholders equity and long term 90.1 88.7 debt are used to finance property, plant and equipment and the medium to long term inventories.
Revolving credit facilities are used to finance net current assets including development and construction costs.
The Groups financing facilities contain the usual financial covenants including minimum interest cover and maximum gearing.
The Group met these requirements throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Financial assets and financial liabilities million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables 854.5 785.4 412.9 341.6 Carrying value Fair value 65.1 75.8 10.6 10.6 Customer deposits Financial assets Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2018 2017 2018 2017 Completed site accruals 106.8 128.6 41.3 46.3 b 734.2 600.5 734.2 600.5 Cash and cash equivalents Other payables 17.9 34.7 26.5 32.1 Land receivables b 9.6 13.8 9.6 13.8 1,044.3 1,024.5 491.3 430.6 Trade and other receivables b 97.8 67.2 97.8 67.2 Revenue recognised in the current year that was included in the customer deposit balance carried forward at the beginning of the period was 75.8 million a 45.3 63.1 45.3 63.1 Mortgage receivables 2017: 88.7 million.
886.9 744.6 886.9 744.6 Other payables include 31.8 million 2017: 48.0 million of repayable grants.
a Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity loans and are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value is established based on a publicly available Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: national house price index, being significant other observable inputs level 2. million 2018 2017 b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised costs in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair value.
Due within one year 359.5 319.5 As at 31 December 2018, mortgage receivables of 5.3 million were past due 2017: nil.
Due in more than one year 379.1 319.6 738.6 639.1 Land creditors are denominated as follows: million 2018 2017 Sterling 715.7 618.3 Euros 22.9 20.8 738.6 639.1 Land creditors of 367.1 million 2017: 489.6 million are secured against land acquired for development.
152 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 37.7 million 2017: 38.2 million of non-financial assets.
Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2018 2017 2018 2017 a 90.1 88.7 90.4 87.8 Overdrafts, bank and other loans Land creditors b 738.6 639.1 738.6 639.1 Trade and other payables b 698.0 690.7 698.0 690.7 Lease liabilities b 27.4 27.4 1,554.1 1,418.5 1,554.4 1,417.6 a The fair value of the 100 million fixed rate loan notes has been determined by reference to external interest rates and the Directors assessment of the margin for credit risk level 2. b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised costs in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair value.
Land creditors are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other payables, as disclosed in Note 18, include 99.0 million 2017: 125.3 million of non-financial liabilities.
The Group has designated the carrying value of 54.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 2017: 54.0 million foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge.
The Group has no other financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs level 3, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy sell against Sterling: 55.0 million 2017: 65.0 million.
The fair value of the forward contracts is not materially different to their book value as they were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and mature less than one month later, hence the value of the derivative is negligible.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group aims to manage the exposure to these risks using fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
a Interest rate risk management The Group can be exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds, when required, at variable interest rates.
The exposure to variable rate borrowings can fluctuate during the year due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
Group policy is to manage the volatility risk by a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to potential changes in variable rates is within acceptable levels.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they are only used to manage exposure to volatility.
This policy has not changed during the year.
To measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast monthly and compared to budget using Managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout the year.
Interest rate sensitivity The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, is shown in the table below.
The Group does not currently have any outstanding interest rate derivatives.
The 0.25% change represents a reasonably possible change in interest rates over the next financial period.
The table assumes all other variables remain constant in accordance with IFRS 7.
Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 0.25% increase in interest rates income equity income equity million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Derivatives Non-derivatives 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 0.25% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Derivatives Non-derivatives 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 b Foreign currency risk management The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Its Spanish subsidiary is the only foreign operation of the Group.
The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as all Group companies conduct their business in their respective functional currencies.
Group policy requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 152 153 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 20.
The Group is exposed to the translation risk from accounting for both the income and the net investment held in a functional currency other than Sterling.
The net investment risk may be hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 37.7 million 2017: 38.2 million of non-financial assets.
are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates.
Income is also measured monthly using the latest exchange rates and compared with a Carrying value Fair value budget held at historical exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings, the translation risk of income is not Financial liabilities Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December hedged using derivatives.
The policy is kept under periodic review and has not changed during the year.
million hierarchy 2018 2017 2018 2017 Hedge accounting a 90.1 88.7 90.4 87.8 Overdrafts, bank and other loans Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.
Land creditors b 738.6 639.1 738.6 639.1 The Group has designated the carrying value of 54.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 2017: 54.0 million borrowings held at the balance sheet Trade and other payables b 698.0 690.7 698.0 690.7 date as a net investment hedge of part of the Groups investment in Euro denominated assets.
Lease liabilities b 27.4 27.4 The change in the carrying value of the borrowings designated as a net investment hedge offset the exchange movement on the foreign currency net 1,554.1 1,418.5 1,554.4 1,417.6 investments and are presented in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
a The fair value of the 100 million fixed rate loan notes has been determined by reference to external interest rates and the Directors assessment of the margin for credit risk level 2.
Foreign currency sensitivity b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised costs in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair value.
The Group is exposed to the Euro due to its Spanish operations.
The following table details how the Groups income and equity would increase decrease on Land creditors are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and a before tax basis following a 15% change in the currencys value against Sterling, and in accordance with IFRS 7, all other variables remaining constant.
other payables, as disclosed in Note 18, include 99.0 million 2017: 125.3 million of non-financial liabilities.
The 15% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified Euro exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
The Group has designated the carrying value of 54.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 2017: 54.0 million foreign currency borrowings as a net Income Equity Income Equity investment hedge.
sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity million 2018 2018 2017 2017 The Group has no other financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs level 3, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Euro weakens against Sterling 1.7 4.7 1.3 4.9 Forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy sell against Sterling: 55.0 million 2017: 65.0 million.
Euro strengthens against Sterling 2.3 6.3 1.8 6.6 The fair value of the forward contracts is not materially different to their book value as they were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and Credit risk mature less than one month later, hence the value of the derivative is negligible.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations.
Market risk Group policy is that surplus cash, when not used to repay borrowings, is placed on deposit with the Groups main relationship banks and with other banks or The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group aims to manage the money market funds based on a minimum credit rating and maximum exposure.
There is no significant concentration of risk to any single counterparty.
exposure to these risks using fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Land receivables arise from sales of surplus land on deferred terms.
A policy is in place such that, if the credit risk is not acceptable, then the deferred a Interest rate risk management payment must have adequate security, either by the use of an appropriate guarantee or a charge over the land.
The fair value of any land held as security is The Group can be exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds, when required, at variable interest rates.
The exposure to variable rate considered by Management to be sufficient in relation to the carrying amount of the receivable to which it relates.
borrowings can fluctuate during the year due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts receivable from various housing associations and other housebuilders.
Management consider Group policy is to manage the volatility risk by a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to potential changes that the credit quality of the various receivables is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and therefore credit risk is considered to be low.
There is in variable rates is within acceptable levels.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they no significant concentration of risk.
are only used to manage exposure to volatility.
Mortgage receivables, including shared equity loans, are in connection with the various historical promotion schemes to support sales on a selective basis, To measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast monthly and compared to budget using and are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The mortgages are secured by a second charge over the property.
Managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date assuming that any security held has no value.
Liquidity risk The Group does not currently have any outstanding interest rate derivatives.
The 0.25% change represents a reasonably possible change in interest rates Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages over the next financial period.
liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial assets and liabilities with the use of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities with a minimum of 12 months to maturity.
Future borrowing requirements are forecast on a monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity events.
As at 31 December 2018, the Groups borrowings and facilities had a range of maturities with an average life of 4.2 years 2017: 2.6 years.
0.25% increase in interest rates income equity income equity In February 2019, the Group agreed with its banks, to extend the 550 million facility for one year to February 2024, increasing the average life of the million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Groups borrowings and facilities to 5.0 years 2017: 5.2 years.
Derivatives In addition to fixed term borrowings, the Group has access to committed revolving credit facilities and cash balances.
At the balance sheet date, the total Non-derivatives 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 unused committed amount was 550.0 million 2017: 550.0 million and cash and cash equivalents were 734.2 million 2017: 600.5 million.
1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 0.25% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity million 2018 2018 2017 2017 Derivatives Non-derivatives 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.5 b Foreign currency risk management The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
154 154 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows, including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: Overdrafts, Trade and Lease Financial liabilities bank and Land other million other loans creditors payables liabilities Total On demand 1.8 367.8 612.2 8.6 990.4 Within one year More than one year and less than two years 1.8 205.8 53.9 6.4 267.9 More than two years and less than five years 94.6 183.9 31.4 9.0 318.9 In more than five years 14.4 0.5 4.6 19.5 98.2 771.9 698.0 28.6 1,596.7 31 December 2018 Overdrafts, Trade and Financial liabilities bank and Land other Lease million other loans creditors payables liabilities Total On demand Within one year 1.8 326.6 589.1 917.5 More than one year and less than two years 1.8 201.6 61.8 265.2 More than two years and less than five years 5.4 107.0 37.7 150.1 89.6 35.7 2.1 127.4 In more than five years 98.6 670.9 690.7 1,460.2 31 December 2017 21.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 133.0 million 2017: 63.7 million and a post-retirement healthcare liability of 0.6 million 2017: 1.1 million.
The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to both new members and to future accrual.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK, which are available to new and existing UK employees.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions are based on a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees.
The Peoples Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for all weekly paid employees and those monthly paid employees not participating in the TWPCP.
The Peoples Pension is provided by B&CE, one of the UKs largest providers of financial benefits to construction industry employers and individuals.
The Group made contributions to its defined contribution arrangements of 12.4 million in 2018 2017: 10.4 million, which is included in the income statement charge.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS.
The TWPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits to beneficiaries in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier.
Pension payments are generally increased in line with inflation.
The TWPS was formed by the merger of the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance Fund and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme in 2013.
The TWPS is closed to new members and future accrual.
The Group operates the TWPS under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from a Trustee-administered fund and the Trustee is responsible for ensuring that the TWPS is well-managed and that members benefits are secure.
Scheme assets are held in trust.
The TWPS Trustees other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, administration of scheme benefits and exercising of discretionary powers.
The Group works closely with the Trustee to manage the TWPS.
The Trustee of the TWPS owes fiduciary duties to the TWPS beneficiaries.
The appointment of the Directors to the Trustee Board is determined by the TWPS trust documentation.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 154 155 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows, including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which During 2017, the Group engaged with the TWPS Trustee on the triennial valuation of the pension scheme with a reference date of 31 December 2016. the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: The table below sets out the key assumptions agreed as part of this valuation.
Overdrafts, Trade and Lease Assumptions Financial liabilities bank and Land other million other loans creditors payables liabilities Total 4.20% Discount rate pre-retirement On demand Discount rate post-retirement 2.35% 1.8 367.8 612.2 8.6 990.4 Within one year RPI inflation 3.50% More than one year and less than two years 1.8 205.8 53.9 6.4 267.9 2.70% CPI inflation More than two years and less than five years 94.6 183.9 31.4 9.0 318.9 Mortality 100% of S2PXA tables, CMI 2016 improvements with 1.50% trend rate and a smoothing factor of 7.5 In more than five years 14.4 0.5 4.6 19.5 98.2 771.9 698.0 28.6 1,596.7 31 December 2018 The result of this valuation was a Technical Provisions deficit at 31 December 2016 of 222.0 million.
To meet this deficit, a revised funding plan was agreed in February 2018.
The funding plan commits the Group to 40.0 million per annum of deficit reduction contributions from 1 April 2018 to 31 December 2020 and 2.0 million per annum for scheme expenses from 1 February 2018 to 31 January 2023.
In addition, 5.1 million per annum is received by the TWPS Overdrafts, Trade and from the Pension Funding Partnership as described below.
However, 40.0 million per annum of cash contributions are only required whilst the TWPS Financial liabilities bank and Land other Lease million other loans creditors payables liabilities Total remains in a Technical Provisions deficit position.
Should the scheme become fully funded, then these cash contributions will be suspended until such time that the schemes Technical Provisions funding level falls to below 96% at the end of any quarter.
In April 2018, the Group paid a one-off contribution of On demand 23.0 million into the TWPS to increase the funding level to 100% and thereby pause any future contributions from 31 March 2018.
The funding level of Within one year 1.8 326.6 589.1 917.5 the TWPS remained above the threshold of 96% until 31 December 2018.
Contributions of 40.0 million per annum have therefore recommenced from More than one year and less than two years 1.8 201.6 61.8 265.2 1 January 2019 and will be payable until 31 December 2020, or until such time as the funding level increases to at least 100% if earlier.
More than two years and less than five years 5.4 107.0 37.7 150.1 On an IAS 19 accounting basis the underlying surplus in the scheme as at 31 December 2018 was 30.9 million 2017: 23.9 million.
89.6 35.7 2.1 127.4 In more than five years The terms of the TWPS are such that the Group does not have an unconditional right to a refund of surplus.
As a result, the Group has recognised an 98.6 670.9 690.7 1,460.2 31 December 2017 adjustment to the underlying surplus in the TWPS on an IAS19 accounting basis of 163.9 million, resulting in an IFRIC 14 deficit of 133.0 million, which represents the present value of future contributions under the 2016 funding plan.
Retirement benefit obligations In 2013, the Group introduced a 100.0 million Pension Funding Partnership utilising show homes, as well as seven offices, in a sale and leaseback Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 133.0 million 2017: 63.7 million and a post-retirement healthcare liability of structure.
This provides an additional 5.1 million of annual funding for the TWPS.
The assets held within the Funding Partnership do not affect the 0.6 million 2017: 1.1 million.
IAS 19 figures before IFRIC 14 as they remain assets of the Group, and are not assets of the TWPS.
As at 31 December 2018, there was 89.9 million of property and 22.4 million of cash held within the structure 2017: 101.5 million of property and 9.5 million of cash.
The terms of this Funding The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to both new members and to Partnership are such that, should the TWPS be in a Technical Provisions deficit at 31 December 2028, then a bullet payment will be due equal to the lower future accrual.
of 100.0 million or the Technical Provisions deficit at that time.
The IFRIC 14 deficit at 31 December 2018 does not include any value in respect of this Defined contribution pension plan bullet payment as modelling undertaken by an independent actuary indicates that the TWPS is expected to be fully funded by 2028 and no bullet payment A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions is expected to be required.
are based on a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once The Group continues to work closely with the Trustee in managing pension risks, including management of interest rate, inflation and longevity risks.
the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with The TWPS assets are approximately 90% hedged against changes in both interest rates and inflation expectations on the schemes long-term, investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member self-sufficiency basis.
The TWPS also benefits from a bulk annuity contract which covers some of the largest liabilities in the scheme, providing protection chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not against interest rate, inflation and longevity risk.
perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
The duration, or average term to payment for the benefits due, weighted by liability, is approximately 16 years for the TWPS.
Accounting assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the TWPS, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees.
The basis for these assumptions is prescribed by IAS 19 and they do not reflect the assumptions that may be used in future funding The Peoples Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for all weekly paid employees and those monthly paid employees not participating in valuations of the TWPS.
The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with regard for the duration of the TWPS.
The assumption for RPI inflation is set by reference to the Bank of Englands implied inflation curve with regard for the duration of The Group made contributions to its defined contribution arrangements of 12.4 million in 2018 2017: 10.4 million, which is included in the income the TWPS, with appropriate adjustments to reflect distortions due to supply and demand for inflation-linked securities.
CPI inflation is set by reference to statement charge.
RPI inflation as no CPI-linked bonds exist to render implied CPI inflation directly observable.
Defined benefit pension schemes The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a Medically Underwritten Mortality Study conducted The Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS.
The TWPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits to by the Group during 2017, combined with experience data.
Using the results from this study, the mortality assumption is based on 107% of S2PXA tables, beneficiaries in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their CMI 2017 improvements with a 1.25% trend rate and smoothing factor of 7.5.
The mortality assumption used in 2017 was 107% of S2PXA tables, salary in the final years leading up to retirement or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier.
CMI 2016 improvements with a 1.25% trend rate and a smoothing factor of 7.5.
The TWPS was formed by the merger of the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance Fund and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme in TWPS 2013.
Accounting valuation assumptions 2018 2017 The Group operates the TWPS under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from a Trustee-administered fund and the Trustee is As at 31 December: responsible for ensuring that the TWPS is well-managed and that members benefits are secure.
2.95% 2.55% Discount rate for scheme liabilities The TWPS Trustees other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, administration of scheme benefits and exercising of discretionary General pay inflation n a n a powers.
Deferred pension increases 2.25% 2.20% The appointment of the Directors to the Trustee Board is determined by the TWPS trust documentation.
Pension increases 2.15%-3.70% 2.10%-3.65% Pension increases depend on the section of the scheme of which each member is a part.
156 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: 2018 2017 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Member currently aged 65 86 88 87 88 Member currently aged 45 88 90 88 90 The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
The liability is sensitive to the assumptions used.
The table below shows the impact to the liability of movement in key assumptions, measured using the same method as the defined benefit scheme.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Impact on defined benefit obligation % Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 32m 1.4 Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 24m 1.1 Members live 1 year longer Increase by 97m 4.3 Life expectancy Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.
The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by a medically underwritten buy-in.
See the section on additional areas of risk management at the end of this Note.
The fair value of the assets of the TWPS is set out below: Percentage of total scheme million assets held At 31 December 2018 Assets: a Unquoted equities 79.6 3.8% b Diversified growth funds 352.8 16.8% c Hedge funds 166.9 7.9% Property 37.2 1.8% Multi-asset credit 219.8 10.4% Direct lending 111.6 5.3% 85.5 4.1% Corporate bonds d Liability driven investment 841.1 40.0% Insurance policies in respect of certain members 196.7 9.3% Cash 13.0 0.6% 2,104.2 100.0% At 31 December 2017 Assets: a Unquoted equities 244.3 10.8% b 375.5 16.6% Diversified growth funds c Hedge funds 152.5 6.7% Property 44.8 2.0% Multi-asset credit 232.9 10.3% Direct lending 70.9 3.1% Corporate bonds 87.0 3.8% d Liability driven investment 835.1 36.9% 213.9 9.5% Insurance policies in respect of certain members Cash 6.6 0.3% 2,263.5 100.0% a This amount relates to Volatility Controlled Equities VCE.
This fund has 2.5 8x leverage exposure, with a target of 4x.
The leverage at 31 December 2018 was 4.6x 31 December 2017: 2.6x.
b This amount relates to the schemes Diversified Risk Premia DRP allocation.
The leverage on the DRP allocation as at 31 December 2018 was 1.8x 31 December 2017: 2.2x.
c The leverage on this fund as at 31 December 2018 was 0.9x 31 December 2017: 1.6x.
d The bespoke Liability Driven Investment LDI fund is designed to protect the scheme against movements in interest rates and inflation.
The overall leverage on the LDI fund is approximately 3x.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 156 157 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: The value of the annuities held by the TWPS are set equal to the value of the liabilities which these annuities match.
All other fair values are provided by the fund managers and collated by Northern Trust as custodian, who independently price the securities from their preferred vendor sources where 2018 2017 the data is publicly available and rely on investment manager data where this information is not available.
Where available, the fair values are quoted prices Life expectancy Male Female Male Female e. g. listed equity.
Unlisted investments e. g. private equity are included at values provided by the fund manager in accordance with relevant guidance.
Member currently aged 65 86 88 87 88 Other significant assets are valued based on observable inputs.
Member currently aged 45 88 90 88 90 There are no investments in respect of the Groups own securities.
The table below details the movements in the TWPS pension liability and assets recorded through the income statement and other comprehensive income.
The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
Fair value Asset liability Present value of scheme recognised on Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Impact on defined benefit obligation % million of obligation assets balance sheet Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 24m 1.1 Past service cost related to GMP equalisation 16.1 16.1 Members live 1 year longer Increase by 97m 4.3 Life expectancy Administration expenses 1.9 1.9 Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.
Interest expense income 57.9 56.8 1.1 Total amount recognised in income statement 74.0 54.9 19.1 The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by a medically underwritten buy-in.
Remeasurement loss on scheme assets not included in income statement 132.2 132.2 The fair value of the assets of the TWPS is set out below: Change in demographic assumptions 15.9 15.9 Percentage of Change in financial assumptions 121.3 121.3 total scheme Experience loss 13.0 13.0 million assets held Adjustment to liabilities for IFRIC 14 76.3 76.3 At 31 December 2018 Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 47.9 132.2 84.3 Assets: a Employer contributions 34.1 34.1 Unquoted equities 79.6 3.8% b Employee contributions Diversified growth funds 352.8 16.8% Benefit payments 116.1 116.1 c Hedge funds 166.9 7.9% At 31 December 2018 2,237.2 2,104.2 133.0 Property 37.2 1.8% Multi-asset credit 219.8 10.4% Fair value Asset liability Direct lending 111.6 5.3% Present value of scheme recognised on million of obligation assets balance sheet 85.5 4.1% Corporate bonds d 2,368.8 2,136.1 232.7 At 1 January 2017 Liability driven investment 841.1 40.0% Current service cost Insurance policies in respect of certain members 196.7 9.3% Administration expenses 3.0 3.0 Cash 13.0 0.6% 62.0 56.1 5.9 Interest expense income 2,104.2 100.0% 62.0 53.1 8.9 Total amount recognised in income statement 193.7 193.7 Return on scheme assets not included in income statement At 31 December 2017 Change in demographic assumptions 78.9 78.9 Assets: a Change in financial assumptions 44.1 44.1 Unquoted equities 244.3 10.8% b 13.9 13.9 Experience gains 375.5 16.6% Diversified growth funds c Adjustment to liabilities for IFRIC 14 87.6 87.6 Hedge funds 152.5 6.7% Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 38.9 193.7 154.8 Property 44.8 2.0% Employer contributions 23.1 23.1 Multi-asset credit 232.9 10.3% Employee contributions Direct lending 70.9 3.1% 142.5 142.5 Benefit payments Corporate bonds 87.0 3.8% d 2,327.2 2,263.5 63.7 At 31 December 2017 Liability driven investment 835.1 36.9% 213.9 9.5% Insurance policies in respect of certain members Accounting valuation Cash 6.6 0.3% million 2018 2017 2,263.5 100.0% Fair value of scheme assets 2,104.2 2,263.5 a This amount relates to Volatility Controlled Equities VCE.
2,073.3 2,239.6 b This amount relates to the schemes Diversified Risk Premia DRP allocation.
Present value of scheme obligations c The leverage on this fund as at 31 December 2018 was 0.9x 31 December 2017: 1.6x.
30.9 23.9 IAS 19 surplus before IFRIC 14 adjustment d The bespoke Liability Driven Investment LDI fund is designed to protect the scheme against movements in interest rates and inflation.
IFRIC 14 adjustment 163.9 87.6 IAS 19 deficit after IFRIC 14 adjustment 133.0 63.7 158 158 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Risks and risk management The TWPS, in common with the majority of such defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, has a number of areas of risk.
These areas of risk, and the ways in which the Group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table below.
The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting perspective, i. e. the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the Groups financial statements.
Although investment decisions in the UK are the responsibility of the TWPS Trustee, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that the pension scheme risks are managed efficiently.
The Group has regular meetings with the Trustee to discuss investment performance, regulatory changes and proposals to actively manage the position of the TWPS.
Risk Description In November 2017, the Trustee agreed to diversify their Diversified Risk Premia DRP allocation between two managers, disinvesting half Asset volatility of the current DRP allocation with AQR, and allocating this to the Bridgewater Optimal fund.
This transition occurred on 1 February 2018 with 188 million allocated to the Bridgewater Optimal fund and has led to greater diversification and reduced manager concentration risk.
In March 2018, the Trustee put in place a fide-risking framework to ensure that any asset outperformance above expectations of the TWPS objectives was captured.
This led to the TWPS fide-risking from the Schroders Volatility Controlled Equities fund in Q2 2018 where c. 60 million one third of the allocation was disinvested.
The TWPS strategy remains well diversified through its exposure to a range of asset classes, including volatility controlled equities, commercial real estate debt, direct loans, fund of hedge funds, Government bonds and a broad spectrum of corporate bonds and other fixed income exposures.
The TWPS does not target a specific asset allocation but instead bases its strategic asset allocation on the return objectives and risk constraints agreed upon by the Trustee.
These were revisited and reviewed in 2018 to ensure they reflected the TWPS latest position.
Given the TWPS improved funding position, it was agreed that the TWPS full funding objective would be brought forward to 2025 from 2030 on a low-risk, self-sufficiency basis.
The TWPS risk budget was also reduced from a  measure of 10% to 7.5%.
Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in bond and liability-matching Changes in derivatives offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement bond yields in the funding or accounting liabilities.
In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
To maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the TWPS assets and to take advantage of overseas investment returns, Investing a proportion of the underlying investment portfolio is invested overseas.
To balance the risk of investing in foreign currencies while having in foreign an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency hedging programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, has been put in currency place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted level.
In order to manage the TWPS economic exposure to interest rates and inflation rates, a liability-hedging programme has been put in Asset liability place.
Derivatives are being used to hedge changes in the TWPS funding level from changes in its liabilities in an unfunded way, mismatch substantially reducing asset liability mismatch risk.
Insurance policies, real estate and illiquid debt which include commercial real estate debt and direct lending bonds make up 470 million Liquidity 22% of the asset portfolio of the TWPS.
Excluding these amounts, approximately 53% of assets are managed in either segregated accounts or daily weekly dealt pooled funds and can be realised within a few business days under normal market conditions.
Of the remaining investments, a further 7% are in pooled funds with weekly redemption dates and 31% are pooled funds with monthly redemption dates.
The remainder of 9% could be redeemed within approximately six months of notification in normal market conditions.
The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member on retirement, so increases in life expectancy will Life result in an increase in the TWPS liabilities.
The inflation-linked nature of the majority of benefit payments from the TWPS increases the expectancy sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy.
During 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited to insure the benefits of 10% of members with the greatest anticipated liabilities through a medically underwritten buy-in.
By insuring these members, the Group has removed more than 10% of risk from the TWPS by significantly reducing the longevity risk in relation to a large proportion of the liabilities.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 158 159 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions ACM cladding Leasehold Risks and risk management provision provision North America million Note 6 Note 6 disposal Other Total The TWPS, in common with the majority of such defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, has a number of areas of risk.
These areas of risk, and the 10.5 22.6 33.1 ways in which the Group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table below.
At 1 January 2017 Additional provision in the year 130.0 11.9 141.9 The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting perspective, i. e. the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the Groups financial statements.
Utilisation of provision 2.4 0.8 5.7 8.9 Released 4.5 4.5 Although investment decisions in the UK are the responsibility of the TWPS Trustee, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that the pension scheme risks are managed efficiently.
The Group has regular meetings with the Trustee to discuss investment performance, regulatory changes and proposals to At 31 December 2017 127.6 9.7 24.3 161.6 actively manage the position of the TWPS.
Additional provision in the year 30.0 15.3 45.3 Risk Description Utilisation of provision 0.4 25.5 0.1 1.4 27.4 In November 2017, the Trustee agreed to diversify their Diversified Risk Premia DRP allocation between two managers, disinvesting half Asset volatility Released 3.6 4.7 8.3 of the current DRP allocation with AQR, and allocating this to the Bridgewater Optimal fund.
This transition occurred on 1 February 2018 Other movements 0.9 0.9 with 188 million allocated to the Bridgewater Optimal fund and has led to greater diversification and reduced manager concentration risk.
At 31 December 2018 29.6 102.1 6.0 32.6 170.3 In March 2018, the Trustee put in place a fide-risking framework to ensure that any asset outperformance above expectations of the TWPS objectives was captured.
million 2018 2017 The TWPS strategy remains well diversified through its exposure to a range of asset classes, including volatility controlled equities, Current 76.9 87.3 commercial real estate debt, direct loans, fund of hedge funds, Government bonds and a broad spectrum of corporate bonds and other Non-current 93.4 74.3 fixed income exposures.
31 December 170.3 161.6 The TWPS does not target a specific asset allocation but instead bases its strategic asset allocation on the return objectives and risk constraints agreed upon by the Trustee.
In 2018, the Group established an exceptional provision for the cost of replacing Aluminium Composite Materials ACM on a small number of legacy Given the TWPS improved funding position, it was agreed that the TWPS full funding objective would be brought forward to 2025 developments.
The majority of the provision is expected to be utilised within two years.
from 2030 on a low-risk, self-sufficiency basis.
In 2017, the Group launched an assistance scheme to help certain customers restructure their ground rent agreements with their freeholder and Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in bond and liability-matching Changes in established an associated provision of 130.0 million to fund this.
The amounts and timing of the outflows depend largely on the number and rate of eligible derivatives offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement bond yields applicants to the scheme and ongoing discussions with freeholders.
The Group expects the scheme will run for several years and anticipates approximately in the funding or accounting liabilities.
40.0 million of the remaining provision will be utilised within the next 12 months.
To maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the TWPS assets and to take advantage of overseas investment returns, Investing Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision covering various obligations on a limited number of sites across the Group.
Other provisions also a proportion of the underlying investment portfolio is invested overseas.
To balance the risk of investing in foreign currencies while having in foreign includes provisions for legal claims, onerous leases and other contract-related costs associated with various matters arising across the Group, the majority an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency hedging programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, has been put in currency of which are anticipated to be settled within a three year period: however, there is some uncertainty regarding the timing of these outflows due to the nature place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted level.
of the claims and the length of time it can take to reach settlement.
Onerous leases and vacant property costs included in this provision are expected to be utilised within approximately five years.
Derivatives are being used to hedge changes in the TWPS funding level from changes in its liabilities in an unfunded way, mismatch 23.
Share capital substantially reducing asset liability mismatch risk.
million 2018 2017 Insurance policies, real estate and illiquid debt which include commercial real estate debt and direct lending bonds make up 470 million Liquidity Authorised: 22% of the asset portfolio of the TWPS.
Excluding these amounts, approximately 53% of assets are managed in either segregated 222.0 222.0 accounts or daily weekly dealt pooled funds and can be realised within a few business days under normal market conditions.
Of the 22,200,819,176 2017: 22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p each remaining investments, a further 7% are in pooled funds with weekly redemption dates and 31% are pooled funds with monthly 1,158,299,201 2017: 1,158,299,201 deferred ordinary shares of 24p each 278.0 278.0 redemption dates.
500.0 500.0 The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member on retirement, so increases in life expectancy will Life result in an increase in the TWPS liabilities.
The inflation-linked nature of the majority of benefit payments from the TWPS increases the expectancy Number of shares million sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy.
During 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Issued and fully paid: Company Limited to insure the benefits of 10% of members with the greatest anticipated liabilities through a medically underwritten 31 December 2017 3,275,418,330 288.5 buy-in.
Ordinary shares issued in the year 2,636,433 31 December 2018 3,278,054,763 288.5 During the year, the Company issued an additional 2.6 million 2017: 5.1 million ordinary shares to satisfy option exercises.
During the year, options were exercised over 8,242,974 ordinary shares 2017: 9,298,098 which were met from new issues of share capital and from our holding of shares in our Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs at varying prices from nil pence to 159.1 pence per share.
Under the Groups performance share plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2018 in respect of up to 18,601,569 shares, subject to achievement of performance tests 2017: 18,568,767 at nil pence per share nominally exercisable up to September 2021.
Under the Groups savings-related share option schemes, employees held options at 31 December 2018 to purchase 19,229,800 shares 2017: 17,149,237 at prices between 84.7 pence and 159.1 pence per share exercisable up to May 2024.
Under the Groups share incentive plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2018 in respect of 5,386,991 shares 2017: 5,086,637 at nil pence per share.
160 160 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Share premium million 2018 2017 762.9 762.9 At 1 January and 31 December 25.
Reserves Capital Retained redemption Translation Total other million earnings reserve reserve Other reserves Balance at 1 January 2017 1,817.3 31.5 6.8 4.9 43.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 Movement in fair value of hedging instruments 1.2 1.2 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 154.8 Deferred tax charge on defined benefit movement 26.5 Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 11.5 Share-based payment credit Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.8 Dividends approved and paid 450.5 Profit for the year 555.3 2,063.0 31.5 7.8 4.9 44.2 Balance at 31 December 2017 Impact on adoption of IFRS 16 Note 32 1.5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.5 1.5 Movement in fair value of hedging instruments 0.7 0.7 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 84.3 Deferred tax credit on defined benefit movement 14.7 Cash cost of satisfying share options 7.0 12.2 Share-based payment credit Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.1 Dividends approved and paid 499.5 656.6 Profit for the year 2,153.1 31.5 8.6 4.9 45.0 Balance at 31 December 2018 Other reserves Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of Parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
Translation reserve The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas operations.
It also includes changes in fair values of hedging instruments where such instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.
Other reserve The Group issued 57.9 million of warrants with a fair value of 5.5 million in 2009 as part of its debt refinancing agreement.
The full cost of the warrants was recognised in the other reserve on their issuance.
Own shares million 12.2 Balance at 1 January 2017 Shares acquired 13.3 Disposed of on exercise of options 4.2 Balance at 31 December 2017 21.3 9.9 Shares acquired Disposed of on exercise of options 8.5 Balance at 31 December 2018 22.7 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 160 161 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Own shares continued million 2018 2017 The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Taylor Wimpey plc purchased in the market, those held as treasury shares and those held by the Taylor Wimpey Employee Share Ownership Trusts to satisfy options and conditional share awards under the Groups share plans.
Reserves Ordinary shares held in trust for bonus, option and performance award plans 13.9 13.1 Capital Retained redemption Translation Total other Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs are used to hold the Companys shares which have been acquired on the market.
These shares are used million earnings reserve reserve Other reserves to meet the valid exercise of options and or vesting of conditional awards and or award of shares under the Executive Incentive Scheme, Bonus Deferral Balance at 1 January 2017 1,817.3 31.5 6.8 4.9 43.2 Plan, Performance Share Plan, Executive Share Option Scheme, Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and the matching award of shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 Movement in fair value of hedging instruments 1.2 1.2 During the year, Taylor Wimpey plc purchased 9.9 million of its own shares which are held in the ESOTs 2017: 13.3 million.
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 154.8 The ESOTs entire holding of shares at 31 December 2018, aggregating 13.9 million shares 2017: 13.1 million, was covered by outstanding options and Deferred tax charge on defined benefit movement 26.5 conditional awards over shares at that date.
Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 27.
Notes to the cash flow statement 11.5 Share-based payment credit million 2018 2017 Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.8 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 828.8 706.5 Dividends approved and paid 450.5 Adjustments for: Profit for the year 555.3 Depreciation of buildings, plant and equipment 3.1 2.3 2,063.0 31.5 7.8 4.9 44.2 Balance at 31 December 2017 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 9.0 Impact on adoption of IFRS 16 Note 32 1.5 Amortisation of software development 1.0 1.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1.5 1.5 16.1 20.1 Pension contributions in excess of charge to the income statement Movement in fair value of hedging instruments 0.7 0.7 Share-based payment charge 12.2 11.5 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 84.3 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax credit on defined benefit movement 14.7 Increase in provisions excluding exceptional payments 32.1 128.5 Cash cost of satisfying share options 7.0 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 869.9 829.9 12.2 Share-based payment credit Increase in inventories 1.7 61.7 Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.1 Increase in receivables 10.9 15.8 Dividends approved and paid 499.5 Decrease in payables 41.9 16.5 656.6 Profit for the year Cash generated by operations 815.4 735.9 2,153.1 31.5 8.6 4.9 45.0 Balance at 31 December 2018 Payments related to exceptional charges 25.9 Income taxes paid 139.6 126.7 Other reserves Interest paid 8.6 5.1 Capital redemption reserve Net cash from operating activities 641.3 604.1 The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of Parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
Translation reserve Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short term The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas operations.
It also includes changes in fair values of hedging highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
instruments where such instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.
Movement in net cash debt Other reserve Cash and Overdrafts, The Group issued 57.9 million of warrants with a fair value of 5.5 million in 2009 as part of its debt refinancing agreement.
The full cost of the warrants was cash bank and Total net recognised in the other reserve on their issuance.
million equivalents other loans cash debt Balance 1 January 2017 450.2 85.5 364.7 26.
Own shares Net cash flow 148.5 148.5 million Foreign exchange 1.8 3.2 1.4 12.2 Balance at 1 January 2017 Balance 31 December 2017 600.5 88.7 511.8 Shares acquired 13.3 Net cash flow 133.8 133.8 Disposed of on exercise of options 4.2 Foreign exchange 0.1 1.4 1.5 Balance at 31 December 2017 21.3 Balance 31 December 2018 734.2 90.1 644.1 9.9 Shares acquired Disposed of on exercise of options 8.5 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Balance at 31 December 2018 22.7 There have been no changes in liabilities due to financing activity in the year.
The movement of 1.4 million 2017: 3.2 million on the bank loan is due to changes in the Euro exchange rate during the year and is shown in the net cash debt reconciliation above.
162 162 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments General The Group in the normal course of business has given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures.
The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed.
The Group has no significant capital commitments as at 31 December 2018 2017: none.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share option plan Details of all equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in existence during the year are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 116.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Schemes requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Outstanding at beginning of year 22,235,874 1.33 24,914,877 0.84 Granted during the year 8,577,379 1.33 6,186,031 1.59 2,776,902 1.52 2,641,339 1.21 Forfeited during the year Exercised during the year 3,419,560 0.96 6,223,695 0.71 Outstanding at the end of the year 24,616,791 1.36 22,235,874 1.33 Exercisable at the end of the year 4,668,021 1.40 4,063,350 0.84 The table above includes shares that are granted to employees on a matching basis, when the employee joins the scheme, purchased shares are matched on a 1:1 basis.
5,386,991of these awards, which do not expire, were in issue at 31 December 2018 2017: 5,086,637.
The remaining options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a range of exercise prices from 0.85 to 1.59 2017: 0.46 to 1.59 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.61 years 2017: 2.57 years.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Schemes not requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in 18,568,767 17,088,352 Outstanding at beginning of year Granted during the year 6,980,446 6,443,624 Forfeited during the year 2,124,230 1,888,806 Exercised during the year 4,823,414 3,074,403 18,601,569 18,568,767 Outstanding at the end of the year Exercisable at the end of the year The conditional awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.74 years 2017: 1.69 years.
The average share price at the date of exercise across all options exercised during the period was 1.78 2017: 1.88.
For share plans with no market conditions granted during the current and preceding year, the fair value of the awards at the grant date was determined using the Binomial model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average share price 1.72 1.94 Weighted average exercise price 0.90 0.98 Expected volatility 34% 36% Expected life 3 5 years 3 5 years Risk free rate 1.1% 0.6% Expected dividend yield 2.88% 2.02% The weighted average fair value of share awards granted during the year was 0.93 2017: 1.10.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected term.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 162 163 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Contingent liabilities and capital commitments 29.
Share-based payments continued For share awards with market conditions granted during the current year, the fair value of the awards was determined using the Monte Carlo simulation General model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: The Group in the normal course of business has given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Groups 2018 2017 own contracts and given guarantees in respect of the Groups share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures.
Weighted average share price 1.88 1.86 The Group has entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
Nil Nil Weighted average exercise price Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the Expected volatility 37% 38% likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to succeed.
Expected life 3 years 0.8 3 years Risk free rate 0.9% 0.1% The Group has no significant capital commitments as at 31 December 2018 2017: none.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share option plan The weighted average fair value of share options granted during the year was 0.99 2017: 1.21.
Details of all equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in existence during the year are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 116.
The expected life used in the model was based on historical exercise patterns.
2018 2017 Weighted Weighted The Group recognised a total expense of 12.2 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2018 2017: 11.5 million.
average average exercise price exercise price 30.
Related party transactions Schemes requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in Outstanding at beginning of year 22,235,874 1.33 24,914,877 0.84 this Note.
The pension schemes of the Group are related parties.
Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes are disclosed in Note 21.
Granted during the year 8,577,379 1.33 6,186,031 1.59 Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The Group has loans with joint ventures that are detailed in Note 13.
2,776,902 1.52 2,641,339 1.21 Forfeited during the year Trading transactions Exercised during the year 3,419,560 0.96 6,223,695 0.71 During the year, Group purchases from joint ventures totalled nil million 2017: 6.8 million, and sales to joint ventures totalled 18.5 million 2017: 2.1 million.
Outstanding at the end of the year 24,616,791 1.36 22,235,874 1.33 Remuneration of key management personnel Exercisable at the end of the year 4,668,021 1.40 4,063,350 0.84 The key management personnel of the Group are the members of the Group Management Team GMT as presented on pages 6 and 7.
The remuneration information for the four Executive Directors is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 109.
The aggregate compensation for the other members of the The table above includes shares that are granted to employees on a matching basis, when the employee joins the scheme, purchased shares are matched GMT is as follows: on a 1:1 basis.
The remaining options outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a range of exercise prices from 0.85 to 1.59 2017: 0.46 to 1.59 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.61 million 2018 2017 years 2017: 2.57 years.
Short term employee benefits 3.6 4.1 2018 2017 0.3 0.3 Post-employment benefits Weighted Weighted 3.9 4.4 Total excluding share-based payments charge average average exercise price exercise price Schemes not requiring consideration from participants: Options in Options in In addition to the amounts above, a share-based payment charge of 1.1 million 2017: 1.5 million related to share options held by members of the GMT.
Dividends Granted during the year 6,980,446 6,443,624 million 2018 2017 Forfeited during the year 2,124,230 1,888,806 Proposed Exercised during the year 4,823,414 3,074,403 Interim dividend 2018: 2.44p 2017: 2.30p per ordinary share of 1p each 79.7 75.2 18,601,569 18,568,767 Outstanding at the end of the year 125.0 80.0 Final dividend 2018: 3.80p 2017: 2.44p per ordinary share of 1p each Exercisable at the end of the year 204.7 155.2 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders The conditional awards outstanding at 31 December 2018 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.74 years 2017: 1.69 years.
Paid The average share price at the date of exercise across all options exercised during the period was 1.78 2017: 1.88.
Final dividend 2017: 2.44p 2016: 2.29p per ordinary share of 1p each 79.8 74.8 For share plans with no market conditions granted during the current and preceding year, the fair value of the awards at the grant date was determined Interim dividend 2018: 2.44p 2017: 2.30p per ordinary share of 1p each 79.7 75.2 using the Binomial model.
The inputs into that model were as follows: 340.0 300.5 Special dividend 2018: 10.40p 2017: 9.20p per ordinary share of 1p each 2018 2017 499.5 450.5 Weighted average share price 1.72 1.94 Weighted average exercise price 0.90 0.98 The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 3.80 pence per share 2017: 2.44 pence per share subject to Expected volatility 34% 36% shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, with an equivalent final dividend charge of c. 125.0 million 2017: 79.8 million.
The final dividend will Expected life 3 5 years 3 5 years be paid on 17 May 2019 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
Risk free rate 1.1% 0.6% The Directors additionally recommend a special dividend of c. 350.0 million 2017: c. 340.0 million subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The special dividend will be paid on 12 July 2019 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 7 June 2019.
Expected dividend yield 2.88% 2.02% In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date the proposed final or special dividends have not been accrued as a liability as at The weighted average fair value of share awards granted during the year was 0.93 2017: 1.10.
164 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards In the current year, the Group has adopted and applied the following accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board that are relevant to the operations of the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases The impact of the adoption of these new standards on the Groups financial statements is explained below.
None of these standards had a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets using an expected credit loss ECL model, and hedge accounting.
The adoption of IFRS 9 did not have a material impact on the Group financial statements, the effect being limited to a reclassification of certain mortgage receivables.
This reclassification did not have an impact on the net assets or profit for the year of the Group.
The Group has elected to restate comparative information for the effect of applying IFRS 9.
Classification and measurement of financial assets All financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, or fair value through profit and loss FVTPL or fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The Directors have reviewed and assessed the Groups financial assets and concluded that the application of IFRS 9 has had the following impact on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets: Financial assets classified as land, trade and other receivables under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement continue to be measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
They are held to collect contractual cash flows which consist only of payments of principal and, where relevant, interest on the principal amount outstanding.
The Groups mortgage receivables contain non-closely related embedded derivatives.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Groups previous accounting policy was to separately measure the embedded derivative and the mortgage receivable host.
The mortgage receivable host was measured at amortised cost with the associated unwind of discount credited to the income statement within finance costs.
Fair value gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the embedded derivative were presented within net operating expenses.
On adoption of IFRS 9, mortgage receivables are no longer separated but instead measured at FVTPL in their entirety with associated fair value gains and losses presented within net operating expenses.
This reclassification has not impacted net assets or profit for the year of the Group.
Impairment of financial assets IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss approach to impairment rather than the incurred credit loss model under IAS 39.
This requires the assessment of the expected credit loss on each class of financial asset at the reporting date.
This assessment should take into consideration any changes in credit risk since the initial recognition of the financial asset.
The Directors have reviewed and assessed the Groups financial assets, and amounts due from customers using reasonable and supportable information to determine the credit risk of each item and concluded that there is no financial impact on the Group.
The main financial assets held by the Group are cash and cash equivalents which are placed on deposit with a number of institutions based on a minimum credit rating and maximum exposure and accordingly the expected credit loss is considered low.
Financial assets also include mortgage receivables where the expected credit loss is included in the assessment of fair value.
Other receivables include completion monies for house sales and other deposits which are both held for short periods of time and mainly relate to the Help to Buy scheme, exposing the Group to limited credit risk.
Land debtors have been assessed for credit risk but, this is also considered to be limited, as the period of deferment is short.
Classification and measurement of financial liabilities All the Groups financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
The IFRS 9 requirements regarding the classification and measurement of financial liabilities are broadly consistent with the previous standard, IAS 39.
Accordingly, the adoption of IFRS 9 has had no impact on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial liabilities.
Hedge accounting In accordance with the allowed transition provisions, the Group has applied the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements prospectively from 1 January 2018.
The qualifying hedge relationships in place under IAS 39 also qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9, and therefore have been regarded as continuing hedge relationships.
The critical terms of the hedging instruments match those of the hedged items and all hedge relationships have continued to be effective under the assessment requirements of IFRS 9.
There are no hedging relationships under IFRS 9 which would not have qualified for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The only hedge relationship within the Group is a net investment hedge to manage the Groups exposure to movements in the Euro exchange rate impacting the results from the Spanish business.
There are no changes to the treatment of net investment hedges under IFRS 9 and therefore the application of IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements has had no impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaces IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much, and when revenue is recognised.
The adoption of IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the Group financial statements, the effect being limited to a presentational adjustment associated with the purchase and sale of part exchange properties.
Comparative information has been restated for the effect of applying IFRS 15.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 164 165 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards continued In the current year, the Group has adopted and applied the following accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board that An assessment of the Groups main revenue streams against the requirements of IFRS 15 compared with previous accounting policies is set out below: are relevant to the operations of the Group.
Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations, Revenue stream significant payment terms Nature of change in accounting policy IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Private development, Customers obtain control of a unit once the sale is complete Under IAS 18 revenue was recognised when the risks and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers certain partnership and monies have been received by Taylor Wimpey.
A house rewards were transferred to the customer which was also at IFRS 16 Leases housing contracts and sale invoice is generated and revenue recognised at this point.
the point when monies were received by Taylor Wimpey.
land sales The impact of the adoption of these new standards on the Groups financial statements is explained below.
None of these standards had a material impact Under IFRS 15, there is no change to the point of revenue on the financial statements of the Company.
recognition as the performance obligations are deemed to be satisfied at the point when legal title is transferred to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments the purchaser.
IFRS 9 became effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaced IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Partnership housing The Group has determined that, where contracts with Housing These contracts were previously accounted for under IAS 11 Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduced new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial instruments, impairment of financial assets using an long term contracts Associations HA or Local Councils are such that cash is and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate expected credit loss ECL model, and hedge accounting.
received during the manufacture of the units, that the customer and as such were recognised over time when certain The adoption of IFRS 9 did not have a material impact on the Group financial statements, the effect being limited to a reclassification of certain mortgage controls all the work in progress as the house is being built.
This milestones in the development were reached.
The Group has elected to restate comparative is because the unit is being built to an agreed specification and There is no change to the timing of revenue recognition under information for the effect of applying IFRS 9. if the contract is terminated by the customer then the Group is IFRS 15.
The conditions of the sale include the requirements for entitled to reimbursement of the costs incurred to date.
Classification and measurement of financial assets the customer to make stage payments throughout the contract Therefore, revenue from these contracts and associated costs All financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, or fair value through profit and accordingly the revenue should continue to be recognised are recognised overtime and invoices are issued accordingly.
and loss FVTPL or fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
Un-invoiced amounts are presented as contract assets.
The Directors have reviewed and assessed the Groups financial assets and concluded that the application of IFRS 9 has had the following impact on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets: Historically, under IAS 18, the purchase and sale of part exchange PX properties was treated as a linked transaction with the sale of the new build unit, Financial assets classified as land, trade and other receivables under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement continue to be and as such the net impact of the purchase and sale of a PX property was recognised in cost of sales.
Under IFRS 15, this is now a separate transaction measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
They are held to collect contractual cash flows which consist only of payments of principal and, where relevant, as it can no longer be linked with the sale of the new build house.
However, this has not been reclassified as revenue and cost of sales because the Group interest on the principal amount outstanding.
does not consider the purchase and sale of PX properties to be a principal activity and therefore the net impact has been reclassified to other income expense.
Sales of PX properties in the year amounted to 154.3 million with an associated acquired value of 156.5 million.
The mortgage receivable host was measured at amortised cost Impact on adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 with the associated unwind of discount credited to the income statement within finance costs.
Fair value gains and losses arising from the remeasurement The financial statement line items impacted by the adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 for the current and previously reported year is shown below.
There was of the embedded derivative were presented within net operating expenses.
On adoption of IFRS 9, mortgage receivables are no longer separated but no impact on current or previously reported balance sheet information or current year earnings per share.
instead measured at FVTPL in their entirety with associated fair value gains and losses presented within net operating expenses.
31 December 2018 million IFRS 15 IFRS 9 Total Impairment of financial assets Impact on profit loss for the year IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss approach to impairment rather than the incurred credit loss model under IAS 39.
This requires the assessment of Cost of sales the expected credit loss on each class of financial asset at the reporting date.
This assessment should take into consideration any changes in credit risk Reclass of net impact of PX sales to net operating expenses 0.2 0.2 since the initial recognition of the financial asset.
Net operating expenses The Directors have reviewed and assessed the Groups financial assets, and amounts due from customers using reasonable and supportable information to determine the credit risk of each item and concluded that there is no financial impact on the Group.
The main financial assets held by the Group are cash Reclass of net impact of PX sales to net operating expenses 0.2 0.2 and cash equivalents which are placed on deposit with a number of institutions based on a minimum credit rating and maximum exposure and accordingly Mortgage receivable classified as FVTPL in entirety 1.8 1.8 the expected credit loss is considered low.
Financial assets also include mortgage receivables where the expected credit loss is included in the assessment Finance costs of fair value.
Other receivables include completion monies for house sales and other deposits which are both held for short periods of time and mainly relate Mortgage receivable classified as FVTPL in entirety 1.8 1.8 to the Help to Buy scheme, exposing the Group to limited credit risk.
Impact on profit for the year Classification and measurement of financial liabilities All the Groups financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
166 166 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards continued 31 December 2017 As previously million reported IFRS 15 IFRS 9 Restated Revenue 3,965.2 3,965.2 Cost of sales 2,932.2 1.2 2,933.4 Gross profit 1,033.0 1.2 1,031.8 Net operating expenses Other income 2.5 1.2 2.9 6.6 Administration expenses 201.9 201.9 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs and tax 833.6 2.9 836.5 Net finance costs 29.2 2.9 32.1 Share of results of joint venture 7.6 7.6 Profit before tax 812.0 812.0 Operating profit 841.2 2.9 844.1 Operating profit margin 21.2% 0.1% 21.3% Before exceptional items, see Alternative Performance Measures on page 178.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease and is mandatorily effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group has elected to early adopt IFRS 16 with a date of initial application of 1 January 2018.
The Group has applied IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, under which the cumulative effect of the initial application is recognised in retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
Comparative information has therefore not been restated and is reported under the previous accounting policies.
The details of the changes in accounting policies are described below.
Definition of a lease Prior to the adoption of IFRS 16, the Group determined at inception whether an arrangement is a lease under IAS 17 or contains a lease under IFRIC 4.
Under IFRS 16, the Group assess whether an arrangement is or contains a lease based on the definitions in the new standard.
The Group elected to apply the practical expedient in the transition provisions of IFRS 16 to grandfather the assessment of arrangements undertaken in prior periods.
Accordingly, IFRS 16 has only been applied to contracts that were either previously identified as leases or entered into subsequent to the initial application of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2018.
The Group as a lessee The Group previously classified leases as either operating or finance leases based on an assessment of whether the lease transferred significantly all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased asset.
Immediately prior to the initial application of IFRS 16, the Group had operating leases related to office premises and equipment and no finance leases.
Under IFRS 16, most leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17 are recognised on the balance sheet as a right-of-use asset along with a corresponding lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
The lease term comprises the non-cancellable period of the contract, together with periods covered by an option to extend the lease where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option.
Subsequently, the lease liability is measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, and reducing it by the lease payments made.
The lease liability is remeasured when the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option.
Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, comprising the initial measurement of the lease liability, plus any initial direct costs and an estimate of asset retirement obligations, less any lease incentives.
Subsequently, right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses, and are adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease.
The Group has elected to apply exemptions for short-term leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value.
For these leases, payments are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, payments charged to the income statement related to low value and short-term leases were insignificant.
Right-of-use assets are presented within non-current assets on the face of the balance sheet and lease liabilities are shown separately on the balance sheet in current liabilities and non-current liabilities depending on the length of the lease term.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 166 167 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards continued 32.
Adoption of new accounting standards continued 31 December 2017 As previously Impact on the financial statements million reported IFRS 15 IFRS 9 Restated On transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognised an additional 26.5 million of right-of-use assets, 28.5 million of lease liabilities and 0.5 million of other Revenue 3,965.2 3,965.2 assets, primarily related to deferred tax and lease prepayments and accruals.
The net difference of 1.5 million was recognised in retained earnings.
Cost of sales 2,932.2 1.2 2,933.4 The lease liabilities were determined by discounting the relevant lease payments at the Groups incremental borrowing rate of between 1.3% and 1.8%.
Gross profit 1,033.0 1.2 1,031.8 The reconciliation between operating lease commitments previously reported in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 discounted Net operating expenses at the Groups incremental borrowing rate and the lease liabilities recognised in the balance sheet on initial application of IFRS 16 is shown below.
Other income 2.5 1.2 2.9 6.6 million Administration expenses 201.9 201.9 Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2017 as previously reported 25.2 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs and tax 833.6 2.9 836.5 Discounted at the Groups incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2018 24.6 Net finance costs 29.2 2.9 32.1 4.6 Reasonably certain extension options Share of results of joint venture 7.6 7.6 Other 0.7 Profit before tax 812.0 812.0 Lease liabilities recognised at 1 January 2018 28.5 Operating profit 841.2 2.9 844.1 Primarily attributable to non-lease components associated with the Groups vehicle fleet arrangements reported as operating lease commitments in the prior year.
The Group elected to Operating profit margin 21.2% 0.1% 21.3% exclude non-lease components from the lease liability balance determined under IFRS 16.
Before exceptional items, see Alternative Performance Measures on page 178.
Post balance sheet events The Group evaluated events subsequent to 31 December 2018.
No events were identified that require recognition or disclosure in the financial statements.
