Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 Notice of Annual General Meeting b. comprising equity securities as defined in the Companies Act Notice of Annual General Meeting 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,859,449 such amount to This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate attention.
be reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph a If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately from a i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other independent practicable to their existing holdings: and financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets ii.
to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of Act 2000. those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor and so the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together with the any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you have sold or territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply until the end transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, please of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.
until the close of business on 24 July 2020 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements Notice is hereby given of the eighty fourth Annual General Meeting of the during this period which would, or might, require shares to be Company to be held on 25 April 2019 at 11:00 am at The British Medical allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP for the to be granted after the authority ends: and the Board may allot following purposes: shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
Ordinary business Ordinary resolutions: Special resolutions: 1.
To receive the Directors report, Strategic report, Remuneration 16.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given power to allot committee report, Independent auditors report and Financial equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary 2.
To declare due and payable on 17 May 2019 a final dividend of shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 3.80pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment 31December 2018 to shareholders on the register at close of or sale, such power to be limited: business on 5 April 2019. a. to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares in 3.
To declare due and payable on 12 July 2019 a special dividend connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity of10.7 pence per ordinary share of the Company to shareholders securities but in the case of the authority granted under onthe register at close of business on 7 June 2019. paragraph b of resolution 15, by way of a rights issue only : 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
practicable to their existing holdings: and 6.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights 7.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker DBE.
of those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Gwyn Burr.
To re-elect as a Director, Angela Knight CBE.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or 10.
To re-elect as a Director, Humphrey Singer.
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 11.
To elect as a Director, Chris Carney.
record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under 12.
To elect as a Director, Jennie Daly.
the laws of, any territory or any other matters: and 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office b. in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are resolution 15 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares, to laid before the Company.
the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares 14.
Subject to the passing of resolution 13, to authorise the Audit Committee to otherwise than under paragraph a above up to a nominal amount determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf of the Board.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting any security into shares in the Company: of the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 24 July 2020 a. up to a nominal amount of 10,929,724 such amount to be but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers, reduced by any allotments or grants made under paragraph b and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity below, in excess of 10,929,724 : and securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
182 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 17.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given the power in Special business addition to any power granted under resolution 16 to allot equity Ordinary resolutions: securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the 19.
That the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 15 and or to sell 31December 2018, as set out on pages 96 to 116 of the Annual ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2018, Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such be approved in accordance with Section 439 of the Companies Act allotment or sale, such power to be: 2006. a. limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury 20.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act shares up to a nominal amount of 1,639,458: and 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries b. used only for the purposes of financing a transaction which the when this resolution is passed are authorised to: Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment a. make political donations to political parties and or independent of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the b. make political donations to political organisations other than Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice or for the purposes of refinancing such a transaction within six months of its political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and taking place.
c. incur political expenditure not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of passing this Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting resolution and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 24 July of the Company.
2020 but, in each case, during this period the Company may make For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donations, offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after and political expenditure have the meanings given by Sections 363 the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities and sell to 365 of the Companies Act 2006. treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That the sale of an apartment at the Palace View development in Central London by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, for the sum of 18.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the 2,043,600, to Mr Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, be Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of hereby approved in accordance with Section 190 of the Companies Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the ordinary shares of Act 2006.
1pence each of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a. the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be Special resolution: purchased shall be 327,891,739: 22.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting b. the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for of the Company may continue to be called on not less than ordinary shares is 1 pence per ordinary share: 14 clear days notice.
c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set out an ordinary share is the highest of: on pages 185 to 188. i. an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Action to be taken Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person, immediately preceding the date on which such ordinary share please bring with you the attendance card accompanying this document.
is purchased: and It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will ii.
the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be highest independent bid on the trading venues where the available from 9:30 am on the day of the Meeting.
For the safety and purchase is carried out: comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording d. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building and in the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company interests of security, by attending the Meeting, upon request, you hereby and 24 October 2020 unless such authority is renewed prior to agree to be searched together with any bags and other possessions.
The such time: and Meeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be e. the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the Meeting.
There under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such is wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require it or those authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the with reduced mobility.
However, where required, attendees are strongly expiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares in advised to bring their own carers to assist with their general mobility pursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred by around the venue.
An induction loop system operates in the meeting this resolution had not expired.
Directions to the venue can be found on the reverse of your attendance card.
If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the Annual General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to you with this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
In order for it to count, the registrar must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on 23 April 2019.
If you prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a CREST member, through the CREST system by completing and transmitting a CREST proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 183 Recommendation Procedural notes Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Each Director will be doing so in respect of all of his or her own Register of Members of the Company by 6:00 pm on 23 April 2019 beneficial shareholding.
or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Shareholders then on the Inspection of documents Register of Members shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register of registered office, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Members after that deadline shall be disregarded in determining the Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR during normal business hours from the date rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
of this Notice of Annual General Meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting.
They will also be available at The British Medical 2.
As at 4 March 2019 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until the Meeting ends: consisted of 3,278,917,398 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 4 March 2019 copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: were 3,278,917,398. copies of the letters of appointment of the Chair of the Board and the 3.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set out Independent Non Executive Directors: and in Note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at a copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company the Meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one proxy in for the year ended 31 December 2018, including the Directors relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is Remuneration report referred to in resolution 19.
This document is also appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares available on our website at www.
co. uk corporate held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent By Order of the Board you.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Link Asset Services as soon as possible on 0871 664 0300 if calling from the United Kingdom calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge : from overseas 44 0 371 664 0300 calls outside the United James Jordan Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Link Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Asset Services is open between 9.00 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
In the case of Taylor Wimpey plc Registered Office: joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior Gate House Turnpike Road holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys Register of High Wycombe Buckinghamshire Members in respect of the joint holdings the first-named being the most senior.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 must be received by Link Asset Services at PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or, if you want to use an envelope 7 March 2019 the address to use is FREEPOST PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, BR3 9ZA or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a member of CREST, via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at the electronic address provided in Note 9, in each case no later than 11:00 am on 23 April 2019.
Please note that all forms of proxy received after this time will be void.
A form of proxy sent electronically at any time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in Notes 8 and 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
