Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 189 Shareholder facilities Shareholders services Dividend Re-Investment Plan You can choose to invest your cash dividends, including any special Web communications dividend, in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under the Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling the Company terms of the Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
For further information to make documents and information available to shareholders by on the Plan and how to join, contact Link Asset Services.
electronic means and via a website, rather than by sending hard copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with the Companies Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the dividend mandates that are in place, should you wish to either participate Companys Articles of Association.
in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless or Making documents and information available electronically: until revoked.
enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs: CREST allows faster access to information and enables shareholders to access The Company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey shares in documents on the day they are published on the Companys website: CREST a facility for the receipt of dividends through the CREST system.
and reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that elections lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, via CREST, for each dividend.
The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to provide hard copies Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to any shareholders upon request.
to make or revoke an election, both in respect of ordinary dividends i. e. in this case, the 2018 final dividend and any special dividends, are available at The Companys website is www.
co. uk and shareholder www.
com or on request from the Registrar, Link Asset documentation made available electronically is generally accessible at Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, www.
co. uk corporate  email: shares@linkgroup.
Callsare charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the Electronic communications United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive are open between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm notification of the availability of Company documentation by means of an Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our website at www.
co. uk corporate  Dividend mandates  We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that Online facilities for shareholders dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and copies of recent inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish shareholder communications online at: www.
co. uk to use this cost-effective and simple facility, complete and return the corporate investor-relations reporting-centre dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque.
Additional mandate forms may be obtained from Link Asset Services.
To register for online access, go to www.
co. uk corporate  and click on the service you require.
To access Duplicate share register accounts some of these services you will first be required to apply online.
If you are receiving more than one copy of our Annual Report and Accounts, it may be that your shares are registered in two or more Once you have registered for access, you can make online enquiries accounts on our Register of Members.
You might wish to consider about your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Link Asset Services personal details.
who will be pleased to carry out your instructions in this regard.
190 Shareholder facilities continued Share dealing services Annual General Meeting We have arranged both telephone and online share dealing services.
Link Share 11:00 am on 25 April 2019 at: Dealing Services allows you to buy and sell shares in a large number of companies that have Link as their registrar.
The services are operated by Link The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, Asset Services.
To use the services either visit www.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2019 Annual General will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between Meeting: 11:00 am on 23 April 2019.
8:00 am and 5:30 pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
To deal, you will need to provide your surname, postcode, date of Group Legal Director and Company Secretary birth and investor code which can be found on your share certificate or any James Jordan form of proxy you have been sent.
Shareholders are not in any way obliged Gate House to use this service when dealing in the Companys shares.
Turnpike Road High Wycombe Taylor Wimpey and CREST Buckinghamshire Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do not require HP12 3NR share certificates.
This may make it quicker and easier for some shareholders Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders who deal infrequently may, Email: james.
com however, prefer to continue to hold their shares in certificated form and this facility will remain available for the time being, pending the likely general Registrar introduction of dematerialised shareholdings in due course.
For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details of shareholder services, please contact: Taylor Wimpey share price Link Asset Services Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and is also available on our website at www.
It appears The Registry 34 Beckenham Road on BBC Text and other digital television interactive services.
It may also be obtained by telephoning the FT Cityline service on telephone 44 0 9058 Beckenham Kent 171690 and ask for Taylor Wimpey on the voice activated response calls cost 75p per minute from a BT landline, other networks may vary.
co. uk Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK Gifting shares to charity Tel: 44 0 371 664 0300 from overseas If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through ShareGift, which Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
is administered by a registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable Limited.
Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, international rate.
Lines are open between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised charities.
For further details, please contact Link Asset Auditors Services or approach ShareGift directly on www.
org or Deloitte LLP telephone them on 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Solicitors Unsolicited approaches to shareholders and BoilerRoom scams Slaughter and May We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders who Stockbrokers have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from third parties with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some cases these are J. P. Morgan Cazenove cold calls and in others correspondence.
They generally purport to be from a Jeffries Hoare Govett firm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, or hold out the prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other investments you may hold.
The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details or the sale of an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of such approaches and deal with firms authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
More information is available on our website www.
co. uk corporate  boiler-room-scams and you can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 Principal Operating Addresses UK Taylor Wimpey plc Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Website: www.
co. uk Registered in England and Wales number 296805 Details of all our operating locations are available on our website www.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey UK Limited Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Spain Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U C Aragon 223-223A 07008 Palma fide Mallorca Mallorca Spain Tel: 34 971 706570 Fax: 34 971 706565 192 More online View our Annual Report and Accounts online: www.
co. uk corporate Further information about our sustainability activities and policies can be found within our dedicated Sustainability Report on our website: www.
co. uk corporate sustainability Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 This document is printed on UPM Finesse Silk and UPM Fine Offset, both papers containing fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests and other controlled sources.
This is a certified CarbonNeutral publication.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
