184 Notes to the notice of Annual General Meeting 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him Securities Regulations 2001. her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right 12.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, same shares.
under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require direct any communications and enquiries to the registered holder of the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any the shares by whom they were nominated and not to the Company or matter relating to: its registrar.
a. the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors 7.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the appointment of proxies in Notes 3 and 4 above does not apply to Annual General Meeting: or Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only be b. any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company exercised by shareholders of the Company.
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the the Companies Act 2006. procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in accordance statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the contain the information required for such instruction, as described in Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act the CREST Manual available via www.
The 2006 to publish on a website.
message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a 14.
Any member attending the Annual General Meeting has the right to proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously ask questions and participate in the Meeting.
The Company must appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be cause to be answered any such question relating to the business received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on 23 April being dealt with at the Meeting but no such answer need be given if: 2019.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the or involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by through other means.
Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or www.
co. uk corporate voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting will be Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
Normal system timings and limitations will, Board believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It voting intentions because it gives as many shareholders as possible is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the opportunity to have their votes counted whether their votes are the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored tendered by proxy in advance of, or in person at, the Annual General member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that Meeting.
The results of the poll will be announced via a Regulatory his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such Information Service and made available at www.
co. uk action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted corporate as soon as practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Personal data provided by shareholders at or in relation to the Annual connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST General Meeting including names, contact details, votes and sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to Shareholder Reference Numbers, will be processed in line with the those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations Companys privacy policy which is available at www.
co. of the CREST system and timings.
uk privacy-policy Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 185 Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions Explanatory notes to the resolutions required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of ordinary Ordinary business dividends i. e. in this case, the 2018 final dividend and any special Ordinary resolutions dividends, are available at www.
com or on request from the Registrar, Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast to be in favour.
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: shares@linkgroup.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
The Registrar is open between 9:00 am English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial and 5:30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 and and Wales.
the reports of the Directors, namely the Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration report, and Auditors report: before a general Resolution 4-12: Election of Directors meeting of the Company the Annual Report.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend subject to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.80 pence Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
If approved at for re-election or election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the Annual the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 17 May 2019 to General Meeting.
shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors Resolution 3: To declare a special dividend Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 96 to 116 of the Annual The Company has announced its intention to return cash to its Report and Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning each shareholders, through the payment of annual special dividends, always Director can be found on pages 58 to 59 of the Annual Report subject to market and performance fluctuations.
Due to the size of these and Accounts.
special dividends, the Company believes it is appropriate to seek prior shareholder approval for payment, as it has done at the last five Annual The following summary information is given in support of the Boards General Meetings for such dividends.
proposal for the re-election or election, as appropriate, of each Director of the Company.
Further details of the rationale for paying special dividends and the link to the Companys current strategy, can be found on page 56.
Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
Kevin has been Chair of the Board since July 2010.
The Board is satisfied The aggregate cost of the special dividend for 2019 will be around that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high standard including 350 million and will be met from profits and surplus cash generated at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Committee which he during 2018.
If approved, it will be paid on 12 July 2019 to shareholders Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that he will be able to on the register at the close of business on 7 June 2019. allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
Subject to shareholders approving either or both of the dividends as set Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously Group out in Resolutions 2 and 3 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
25 April 2019, the Company will be offering a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP on each one.
The DRIP is provided and administered by the James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
DRIP plan administrator, Link Market Services Trustees Limited, which is James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is also the authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007.
Prior to DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends 2007 and the merger with Taylor Woodrow, he held the same role with received on their ordinary shares, in purchasing further ordinary shares of George Wimpey Plc.
These shares would be bought in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
Kate Barker DBE offers herself for re-election.
The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend for Kate is the Companys Senior Independent Director and has been an 2018 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future dividends, Independent Non Executive Director since April 2011.
The Board is satisfied including special dividends, until such time as you withdraw from the DRIP that she continues to be independent in character and judgement in applying or the DRIP is suspended or terminated in accordance with the terms her expertise and input at meetings of the Board and of the Remuneration and conditions.
Committee which she Chairs and the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that she will continue to be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any to discharge her responsibilities.
dividend mandates that are in place, should you wish to either participate in the DRIP or to discontinue or vary any participation, as existing Gwyn Burr offers herself for re-election.
mandates will apply to all dividend payments including special dividends Gwyn has been an Independent Non Executive Director since unless or until revoked.
The Board is satisfied that she is independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the CREST Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that she will be able to For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that elections allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her responsibilities continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, effectively.
via CREST, for each dividend.
186 Notes to the notice of Annual General Meeting continued This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary Angela Knight CBE offers herself for re-election.
share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2019, the latest practicable Angela has been an Independent Non Executive Director since November date prior to publication of this Notice of Meeting.
The Board is satisfied that she is independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association formerly the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that she will be Association of British Insurers TIA, paragraph b of resolution 15 would able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her give the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to responsibilities effectively.
subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate Humphrey Singer offers himself for re-election.
nominal amount equal to 21,859,449 representing 2,185,944,932 Humphrey has been an Independent Non Executive Director since ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued December 2015.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in under paragraph a of resolution 15.
This amount before any reduction character and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital Board and of the Audit Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination ofthe Company as at 4 March 2019, the latest practicable date prior to Committee, and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to the publication of this Notice of Meeting.
Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Chris Carney offers himself for election.
Chris has been the Group Finance Director since 20 April 2018, having The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of resolution 15 will been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
expire at the earlier of 24 July 2020 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2020.
Jennie Daly offers herself for election.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities Jennie has been the Group Operations Director since 20 April 2018, having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
However, if they do exercise the authorities, the Directors intend to follow TIA recommendations concerning their use The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently been including as regards the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report and Accounts on Special Resolutions page 80, and that each continues to demonstrate commitment and to be Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast to be cast an effective member of the Board able to devote sufficient time in line with in favour.
the Code to fulfill their role and duties.
Resolutions 16 and 17: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights In compliance with provision B.
7.2 of the Code, the Chair also hereby Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions, each of confirms that, following the formal performance evaluation referred to above, which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
They would carried out as part of the overall Board Evaluation process, the performance give the Directors the power to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary of each of the Non Executive Directors continues to be effective and that each shares which the Company holds in treasury for cash without first offering Director continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Resolution 13: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as auditor The power set out in resolution 16 would be, similar to previous years, limited of the Company to: a allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares, or as which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore proposed the Board otherwise considers necessary, or b otherwise up to an aggregate that the auditor is appointed from the conclusion of the 2019 Annual nominal amount of 1,639,458 representing 163,945,869 ordinary shares.
General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
Following an annual review of This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued Deloittes performance, and following consideration of the guidance on the ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at timing of the rotation of the external auditor, details as set out on page 85, 4 March 2019, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
the Board recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte as the Companys auditor.
In respect of the power under resolution 16 b, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Resolution 14: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree on Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditor year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee to shares should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the appointment Resolution 17 is intended to give the Company flexibility to make non of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of which are given in the pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares in connection with acquisitions and Audit Committee Report.
Details of non-audit services performed by Deloitte other capital investments as contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups in 2018 are given in Note 6 on page 143 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The power under resolution 17 is in addition to that proposed by resolution 16 and would be limited to allotments or sales of up Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,639,458 representing 163,945,869 The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued shares ordinary shares in addition to the power set out in resolution 16.
This in the Company, which was granted i at the Companys last Annual General aggregate nominal amount represents an additional 5% of the issued ordinary Meeting held on 26 April 2018 and ii at the General Meeting held on share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 4 March 2019, 28 December 2018 and which is due to expire at the conclusion of this Annual the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Accordingly, paragraph a of resolution 15 would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for The powers under resolutions 16 and 17 will expire at the earlier of 24 July or convert any securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal 2020 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of amount equal to 10,929,724 representing 1,092,972,466 ordinary shares.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Shareholder information Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187 Resolution 18: Authority to make market purchases of shares Special business Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more Ordinary resolutions tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary shares Resolution 19: Approval of the Directors Remuneration report of the Company in issue at the close of business on 4 March 2019.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is seeking shareholders approval of the Directors Remuneration Report in resolution The minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an 19, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
ordinary share is 1 pence per ordinary share.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority would not exceed the highest of i 105% of The Directors are required to prepare the Directors remuneration report, the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary comprising an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the and a statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and Company is required to seek shareholders approval in respect of the the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the contents of this report on an annual basis excluding the part containing purchase is carried out.
Shares purchased pursuant to these authorities the Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders could be held as treasury shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting when it was proposed and cost-effectively, and provides the Company with additional flexibility in for its latest three-yearly vote.
The vote on the Directors remuneration the management of its capital base.
The total number of shares held as report is an advisory one only.
treasury shall not at any one time exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any shares bought back over the 10% limit will Resolution 20: Authority to make political donations be cancelled.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes to renew This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed its existing authority for a general level of political donation and or companies at Annual General Meetings.
The authority was renewed during expenditure.
Resolution 20 seeks to renew the existing authority for the 2018 by shareholders at a General Meeting of the Company held on Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
28 December 2018, which was held for the sole purpose of correcting a The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three typographical error in the equivalent resolution passed by shareholders at heads as set out in Resolution 20 with a separate amount specified as the 2018 AGM, which meant the authority expired earlier than intended.
An amount not exceeding 250,000 for each head of The Boards current intention of utilising this authority is generally limited to the authority has been proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution 20 extends approval to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
acquiring shares for the various share scheme arrangements.
Although the Board will continue to keep the matter under review, the Board would only This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General consider a more formal share purchase programme if it would result in an Meeting of the Company, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of shareholders generally, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political parties or organisations and do not intend to going forward, but do The total number of options and conditional share awards to subscribe for support certain industry-wide bodies such as the Home Builders ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business on 4 March 2019 Federation in the UK.
Whilst the Board does not regard this as political in was 36,743,152, representing approximately 1.1% of the issued ordinary nature, in certain circumstances such support together with donations share capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 1.2% of made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly be treated as a the Companys issued ordinary share capital following any exercise in full donation to a political organisation under the relevant provisions of the of this authority to make market purchases.
For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity This authority will last until the earlier of 24 October 2020 and the which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fulfilling public duties and payments to industry conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear on page 122 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
188 Notes to the notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 21: Substantial property transaction Special resolution Pete Redfern, a Director of the Company, is proposing to purchase, Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast to be cast subject to shareholder approval, an apartment at the Palace View in favour.
development in Central London being undertaken by the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary company Taylor Wimpey UK Limited, for the Resolution 22: Notice of general meetings sum of 2,043,600.
This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies The calculation of the price to be paid by Pete Redfern excluding VAT or Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period any other taxes is as follows: required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than Price at which the property was first available on the 14 clear days.
At the last Annual General Meeting, a resolution was market to third party buyers: 2,480,000 passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other Average discount available to a third party buyer: 336,400 than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least Price payable by a third party buyer: 2,143,600 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this Standard employee discount 5% 107,180 but approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, capped at 100,000 over a five year period : 100,000 Resolution 22 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear Price payable by Pete Redfern: 2,043,600 days would not be used as a matter of routine for any general meeting, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a The purchase price was agreed following a review of the prices already whole.
The renewed approval will be effective until the Companys next obtained in the open market for similar properties by Internal Audit, less a Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will discount pursuant to the Companys standard employee discount be proposed.
scheme which is open to all eligible employees of 5%.
Under the scheme, the amount of discount available to any employee is capped such that the Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 maximum permitted aggregate discount over any five year period is clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting make 100,000 and on no more than three properties.
available electronic voting to all shareholders.
Other than the standard employee discount, the price being paid by Pete Redfern assumes that the transaction is an arms length sale.
The agreements between Taylor Wimpey UK Limited and Pete Redfern will be a standard form sale and purchase agreement used by Taylor Wimpey UK Limited for the Palace View development, save that it will be conditional upon the approval of the Companys shareholders.
The terms of the proposed purchase have been subjected to the usual level of detailed scrutiny and review applied to all employee discount purchases which includes a review by the Companys Internal Audit function.
As the transaction is in excess of 100,000, it constitutes a substantial property transaction with a Director of the Company under Sections 190 and 191 of the Companies Act 2006 and therefore requires the approval of shareholders, which is being sought at this Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes the terms of the proposed agreement will be fair and reasonable and that the price to be paid by Pete Redfern will be the market value of the property less the standard 5% discount as described above as at the date of exchange of contracts.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
