NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
TBC Bank Group PLC TBCG or Group is a public limited liability company, incorporated in England and Wales.
TBCG held 99.88% of the share capital of JSC TBC Bank hereafter the Bank as at 31 December 2018 2017: 98.67%, 2016: 98.48%, thus representing the Banks ultimate parent company.
The Bank is a parent of a group of companies incorporated in Georgia and Azerbaijan, their primary business activities include providing banking, leasing, brokerage and card processing services to corporate and individual customers.
The Groups list of companies is provided in Note 2.
The shares of TBCG TBCG Shares were admitted to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange PLCs Main Market for listed securities effective on 10 August 2016 the Admission, note 25.
TBC Bank Group PLCs registered legal address is Elder House St Georges Business Park, 207 Brooklands Road, Weybridge, Surrey, KT13 0TS.
Registered number of TBC Bank Group PLC is 10029943.
The Bank is the Groups main operating unit and it accounts for most of the Groups activities.
JSC TBC Bank was incorporated on 17 December 1992 and is domiciled in Georgia.
The Bank is a joint stock company limited by shares and was set up in accordance with Georgian regulations.
The Banks registered address and place of business is 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102 Tbilisi, Georgia.
The Banks principal business activity is universal banking operations that include corporate, small and medium enterprises, retail and micro operations within Georgia.
In 2018, the Bank launched fully-digital bank, Space.
The Bank has been operating since 20 January 1993 under a general banking license issued by the National Bank of the Georgia NBG.
The Bank has 146 2017:154: 2016:120 branches within Georgia.
As of 31 December 2018, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the following shareholders directly owned more than 5% of the total outstanding shares of the Group.
Other shareholders individually owned less than 5% of the outstanding shares.
As of 31 December 2018, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 the Group had no ultimate controlling party.
% of ownership interest held as of 31 December Shareholders 2018 2017 2016 JPMorgan Asset Management 8.40% 9.21% 7.07% European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 8.18% 8.38% 12.15% Schroder Investment Management 7.08% 9.53% 7.98% Mamuka Khazaradze 6.19% 6.35% - Badri Japaridze 6.08% 6.23% - Liquid Crystal International N. V. LLC 5.64% 5.78% 5.19% Dunross & Co. 5.51% - - TBC Holdings LTD - - 15.19% Societe Generale SA - - 5.38% Other 52.92% 54.52% 47.04% Total 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Represents direct ownership of the shares for Mamuka Khazaradze and Badri Japaridze.
Mamuka Khazaradze has beneficial ownership of 13.54% 2017: 13.87% and Badri Japaride has beneficial ownership of 6.77% 2017: 6.93%.
Other includes individual as well as corporate shareholders.
182 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation.
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the standalone statement of comprehensive income of TBCG is not presented as part of these accounts.
TBCGs income for the year is disclosed within the separate statement of financial position and the separate statement of changes in equity.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of TBC Bank Group PLC, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments and certain class of premises and equipment which are measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and separate financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated refer to Note 3.
New and amended standards and interpretations.
In these financial statements, the Group has applied IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, for the first time.
The Bank has not adopted early any other standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.
IFRS 9 replaced IAS 39 for annual periods on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group applied IFRS 9 using modified retrospective approach that means it has not restated comparative information for 2017 for financial instruments in the scope of IFRS 9.
Therefore, the comparative information for 2017 is reported under IAS 39 and is not comparable to the information presented for 2018.
Differences arising from the adoption of IFRS 9 have been recognised directly in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and are disclosed in Note 4, transition table.
Changes to classification and measurement.
To determine their classification and measurement category, IFRS 9 requires all financial assets, except for equity instruments and derivatives, to be assessed based on a combination of the entitys business model for managing the assets and the instruments contractual cash flow characteristics.
The IAS 39 measurement categories of financial assets fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, available for sale AFS, heldto-maturity and amortised cost have been replaced by: Debt instruments at amortised cost: Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI, with gains or losses recycled to profit or loss on derecognition: Equity instruments at FVOCI, with no recycling of gains or losses to profit or loss on derecognition: Financial assets at FVTPL.
The accounting for financial liabilities remains largely the same as it was under IAS 39, except for the treatment of gains or losses arising from an entitys own credit risk relating to liabilities designated at FVTPL.
Such movements are presented in OCI with no subsequent reclassification to the income statement.
The Groups classification of its financial assets and liabilities is explained in Note 4.
The quantitative impact of applying IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018 is disclosed in Note 4.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Changes to the impairment calculation.
The adoption of IFRS 9 has fundamentally changed the Groups accounting for loan loss impairments by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss approach with a forward-looking expected credit loss ECL approach.
IFRS 9 requires the Group to record an allowance for ECLs for all loans and other debt financial assets not held at FVTPL, together with loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
The allowance is based on the ECLs associated with the probability of default in the next twelve months unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk since origination.
If the financial asset meets the definition of purchased or originated credit impaired POCI, the allowance is based on the change in the ECLs over the life of the asset.
Details of the Banks impairment method are disclosed in Note 4.
To reflect the differences between IFRS 9 and IAS 39, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures were updated and the Group has adopted it, together with IFRS 9, for the year beginning 1 January 2018.
Changes include transition disclosures as shown in Note 4, detailed qualitative and quantitative information about the ECL calculations such as the assumptions and inputs used are set out in Note 36.
Reconciliations from opening to closing ECL allowances are presented in Note 9.
The Board of Directors of TBC Bank Group PLC has prepared these financial statements on a going concern basis.
In making this judgement the management considered the Groups financial position, current intentions, profitability of operations and access to financial resources.
The management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of Georgian Lari GEL thousands, except per-share amounts and unless otherwise indicated.
Subsidiaries are those investees, including structured entities, that the Group controls because it i has power to direct relevant activities of the investees that significantly affect their returns, ii has exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investees, and iii has the ability to use its power over the investees to affect the amount of investors returns.
The existence and effect of substantive rights, including substantive potential voting rights, are considered when assessing whether the Group has power over another entity.
For a right to be substantive, the holder must have practical ability to exercise that right when decisions about the direction of the relevant activities of the investee need to be made.
The Group may have power over an investee even when it holds less than the majority of voting power in it.
In such a case, the Group assesses the size of its voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders to determine if it has fide-facto power over the investee.
Protective rights of other investors, such as those that relate to fundamental changes of investees activities or apply only in exceptional circumstances, do not prevent the Group from controlling an investee.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group, and are deconsolidated from the date on which control ceases.
184 184 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Subsidiaries and associates.
The TBC Bank Group PCL holds 99.88%of the Bank as of 31 December 2018.
The consolidated financial statements include the following principal subsidiaries: Proportion of voting rights and ordinary Principal place of share capital held as of 31 December business or Yearof Company Name 2018 2017 2016 incorporation incorporation Industry JSC TBC Bank 99.88% 98.67% 98.48% Tbilisi, Georgia 1992 Banking Bank Republic Group 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 1992 Banking Ltd Merckhali Pirevli 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Operating leasing United Financial Corporation JSC 98.67% 98.67% 98.67% Tbilisi, Georgia 1997 Card processing TBC Capital LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 1999 Brokerage TBC Leasing JSC 99.61% 99.61% 99.61% Tbilisi, Georgia 2003 Leasing Non-banking credit TBC Kredit LLC 100% 75.00% 75.00% Baku, Azerbaijan 1999 institution Banking System Service Company LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Information services TBC Pay LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Processing Real Estate Real estate Management Fund JSC 0.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2010 management TBC Invest LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ramat Gan, Israel 2011 PR and marketing Real estate Index LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2011 management 2 BG LLC 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2018 Real Estate JSC TBC Insurance 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2014 Insurance GE Commerce LTD 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2018 Retail Trade Swoop JSC 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2010 Retail Trade The Group has investments in the following associates: Proportion of voting rights and ordinary Principal place of share capital held as of 31 December business or Year of Company Name 2018 2017 2016 incorporation incorporation Industry Financial JSC CreditInfo Georgia 21.08% 21.08% 0.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2005 intermediation Computer and LLC Online Tickets 26.00% 26.00% 0.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2015 Software Services The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
On 6 May 2017 the Group completed the legal and operational process of merging JSC Bank Republic with TBC Bank.
The Groups corporate structure consists of a number of related undertakings, comprising subsidiaries and associates, which are not consolidated or equity accounted due to immateriality.
A full list of these undertakings, the country of incorporation i and the ownership of each share class is set out below.
Proportion of voting rights and ordinary Principal place of share capital held as of 31 December business or Year of Company Name 2018 2017 2016 incorporation incorporation Industry 3 TBC Invest International Ltd 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2016 Investment Vehicle University 4 Development Fund 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% Tbilisi, Georgia 2007 Education 5 UFC International Ltd 0.00% 80.00% 80.00% British Virgin Islands 2001 Investment Vehicle Amsterdam, 6 TBC Capital B. V. 0.00% 0.00% 90.00% Netherlands 2007 Investment Vehicle 2 The Group has fide-facto control over the subsidiary control without legal form of ownership 3 Dormant 4 Non-entrepreneurial non-commercial legal entity 5 Liquidated in 2018 6 Liquidated in 2017 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 185 185 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Business combinations and Goodwill.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The Group measures the non-controlling interest that represents the current ownerships interest and entitles the holder to a proportionate share of net assets in the event of liquidation on a transaction by transaction basis, either at: a fair value, or b the non-controlling interests proportionate share of net assets of the acquired entity.
Non-controlling interests that are not present ownership interests are measured at fair value.
Goodwill is measured by deducting the acquirees net assets from the aggregate of the consideration transferred for the acquiree, the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree and fair value of an interest in the acquiree held immediately before the acquisition date.
Any negative amount negative goodwill is recognised in profit or loss, after the management reassesses whether it identified all the assets acquired and all liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, and reviews appropriateness of their measurement.
The consideration transferred for the acquiree is measured at the fair value of the assets given up, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed, including fair value of assets or liabilities from contingent consideration arrangements, but excludes acquisition related costs such as advisory, legal, valuation and similar professional services.
Transaction costs incurred for issuing equity instruments are deducted from the equity: transaction costs incurred for issuing debt are deducted from its carrying amount and all other transaction costs associated with the acquisition are expensed.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the cost cannot be recovered.
The Bank and all of its subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies consistent with the Groups policies.
Non-controlling interest is that part of the net results and of the equity of a subsidiary attributable to interests that are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the Bank.
Non-controlling interest forms a separate component of the Groups equity.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence directly or indirectly, but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and are initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Dividends received from associates reduce the carrying value of the investments in associates.
Other post-acquisition changes in Groups share of net assets of an associate are recognised as follows: i the Groups share of profits or losses of associates is recorded in the consolidated profit or loss for the year as share of result of associates, ii the Groups share of other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented separately, iii : all other changes in the Groups share of the carrying value of net assets of associates are recognised in profit or loss within the share of result of associates.
However, when the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Purchases and sales of non-controlling interests.
The Group applies the economic entity model to account for transactions with owners of non-controlling interest.
Any difference between the purchase consideration and the carrying amount of non-controlling interest acquired is recorded as a capital transaction directly in equity.
The Group recognises the difference between sales consideration and carrying amount of non-controlling interest sold as a capital transaction in the statement of changes in equity.
186 186 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Disposals of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to profit or loss.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
Financial instruments key measurement terms.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The best evidence of fair value is the price in an active market.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or the liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market is measured as the product of the quoted price for the individual asset or liability and the quantity owned by the entity.
This is the case even if a markets normal daily trading volume is not sufficient to absorb the quantity held and placing orders to sell the position in a single transaction might affect the quoted price.
A portfolio of financial derivatives or other financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market is measured at the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the price that would be received to sell a net long position ie an asset for a particular risk exposure or paid to transfer a net short position i. e. a liability for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or models based on recent arms length transactions or consideration of financial data of the investees are used to measure the fair value of certain financial instruments for which external market pricing information is not available.
Fair value measurements are analysed by level in the fair value hierarchy as follows: i level one are measurements at quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, ii level two measurements are valuations techniques with all material inputs observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices, and iii level three measurements are valuations not solely based on observable market data that is, the measurement requires significant unobservable inputs.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the end of the reporting period.
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition and includes transaction costs Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument.
An incremental cost is one that would not have incurred if the transaction had not taken place.
Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to agents including employees acting as selling agents, advisors, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and securities exchanges, and transfer taxes and duties.
Transaction costs do not include debt premiums or discounts, financing costs or internal administrative or holding costs.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 187 187 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial instruments key measurement terms continued.
Amortised cost AC is the amount at which the financial instrument was recognised at initial recognition less any principal repayments, plus accrued interest, and for financial assets less any write-down for expected credit losses.
Accrued interest includes the amortisation of transaction costs deferred at initial recognition and of any premium or discount to maturity amount using the effective interest method.
Accrued interest income and accrued interest expense, including both accrued coupon and amortised discount or premium including fees deferred at origination, if any, are not presented separately and are included in the carrying values of related items in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The effective interest method is a method of allocating interest income or interest expense over the relevant period so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest effective interest rate on the carrying amount.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts excluding future credit losses through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, if appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
The effective interest rate discounts cash flows of variable interest instruments to the next interest repricing date, except for the premium or discount which reflects the credit spread over the floating rate specified in the instrument, or other variables that are not reset to market rates.
Such premiums or discounts are amortised over the whole expected life of the instrument.
The present value calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate refer to income and expense recognition policy.
For assets that are purchased or originated credit impaired POCI at initial recognition, the effective interest rate is adjusted for credit risk, i. e. it is calculated based on the expected cash flows on initial recognition instead of contractual payments.
Initial recognition of financial instruments.
Financial instruments at FVTPL are initially recorded at fair value.
All other financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value adjusted for transaction costs.
Fair value at initial recognition is best evidenced by the transaction price.
A gain or loss on initial recognition is only recorded if there is a difference between fair value and transaction price which can be evidenced by other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or by a valuation technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets.
After the initial recognition, an ECL allowance is recognised for financial assets measured at AC and investments in debt instruments measured at FVOCI, resulting in an immediate accounting loss.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame set by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recorded at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to deliver a financial asset.
All other purchases are recognised when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets classification and subsequent measurement measurement categories.
The Group classifies financial assets in the following measurement categories: FVTPL, FVOCI and AC.
The classification and subsequent measurement of debt financial assets depends on: i the Groups business model for managing the related assets portfolio and ii the cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Financial assets classification and subsequent measurement business model.
The business model drives classification of financial assets.
Management applied judgement in determining the level of aggregation and portfolios of financial instruments when performing the business model assessment.
When assessing sales transactions, the Group considers their historical frequency, timing and value, reasons for the sales and expectations about future sales activity.
Sales transactions aimed at minimising potential losses due to credit deterioration are considered consistent with the hold to collect business model.
Other sales before maturity, not related to credit risk management activities, are also consistent with the hold to collect business model, provided that they are infrequent or insignificant in value, both individually and in aggregate.
The Group assesses significance of sales transactions by comparing the value of the sales to the value of the portfolio subject to the business model assessment over the average life of the portfolio.
In addition, sales of financial asset expected only in stress case scenario, or in response to an isolated event that is beyond the Groups control, is not recurring and could not have been anticipated by the Group, are regarded as incidental to the business model objective and do not impact the classification of the respective financial assets.
The hold to collect and sell business model means that assets are held to collect the cash flows, but selling is also integral to achieving the business models objective, such as, managing liquidity needs, achieving a particular yield, or matching the duration of the financial assets to the duration of the liabilities that fund those assets.
Financial assets classification and subsequent measurement business model continued.
The residual category includes those portfolios of financial assets, which are managed with the objective of realising cash flows primarily through sale, such as where a pattern of trading exists.
Collecting contractual cash flow is often incidental for this business model.
188 188 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets classification and subsequent measurement cash flow characteristics.
Where the business model is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or to hold contractual cash flows and sell, the Group assesses whether the cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest SPPI.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are consistent with the SPPI feature.
In making this assessment, the Group considers whether the contractual cash flows are consistent with a basic lending arrangement, i. e. interest includes only consideration for credit risk, time value of money, other basic lending risks and profit margin.
Where the contractual terms introduce exposure to risk or volatility that is inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement, the financial asset is classified and measured at FVTPL.
The SPPI assessment is performed on initial recognition of an asset and it is not subsequently reassessed.
The judgements applied by the Group in performing the SPPI test for its financial assets is as follows: The time value of money element may be modified, for example, if a contractual interest rate is periodically reset but the frequency of that reset does not match the tenor of the debt instruments underlying base interest rate, for example a loan pays three months interbank rate but the rate is reset every month.
The effect of the modified time value of money was assessed by comparing relevant instruments cash flows against a benchmark debt instrument with SPPI cash flows, in each period and cumulatively over the life of the instrument.
The Group applied a threshold of 10% to determine whether differences against a benchmark instruments are significantly different.
In case of a scenario with cash flows that significantly differ from the benchmark, the assessed instruments cash flows are not SPPI and the instrument is then carried at FVTPL.
The Group identified and considered contractual terms that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows.
The SPPI criterion is met if a loan allows early settlement and the prepayment amount substantially represents principal and accrued interest, plus a reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of the contract.
The assets principal is the fair value at initial recognition less subsequent principal repayments, ie instalments net of interest determined using the effective interest method.
As an exception to this principle, the standard also allows instruments with prepayment features that meet the following condition to meet SPPI: i the asset is originated at a premium or discount, ii the prepayment amount represents contractual amount and accrued interest and a reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of the contract, and ii the fair value of the prepayment feature is immaterial at initial recognition.
The instruments that failed the SPPI test are generally measured at FVTPL.
The Bank did not have such category of Loans to customers during 2018.
Financial instruments are reclassified only when the business model for managing the portfolio as a whole changes.
The reclassification has a prospective effect and takes place from the beginning of the first reporting period that follows after the change in the business model.
The Group did not change its business model during the current and comparative period and did not make any reclassifications.
Financial assets impairment credit loss allowance for ECL.
The Group assesses, on a forward-looking basis, the ECL for debt instruments measured at AC and FVOCI and for the exposures arising from loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
The Group measures ECL and recognises credit loss allowance at each reporting date.
The measurement of ECL reflects: i an unbiased and probability weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes, ii time value of money and iii all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost and effort at the end of each reporting period about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future conditions.
The Group applies a three stage model for impairment, based on changes in credit quality since initial recognition: Stage 1: A financial instrument that is not credit-impaired on initial recognition is classified in Stage 1.
Financial assets in Stage 1 have their ECL measured at an amount equal to the portion of lifetime ECL that results from default events possible within the next 12 months or until contractual maturity, if shorter 12 Months ECL : Stage 2: If the Group identifies a significant increase in credit risk SICR since initial recognition, the asset is transferred to Stage 2 and its ECL is measured based on ECL on a lifetime basis Lifetime ECL.
If a SICR is no longer observed, instrument will move back to Stage 1.
Refer to Note 36 for a description of how the Group determines, on a forward-looking basis, when a SICR has occurred: Stage 3: Credit impaired assets are transferred to Stage 3 and allowance for Lifetime ECL is recognized.
The Groups definition of credit impaired assets and definition of default is based on the occurrence of one or more loss events, described further in Note 36.
Change in ECL is recognized in statement of profit or loss with a corresponding allowance reported as a decrease in carrying value of the financial asset on the statement of financial position.
For financial guarantees and credit commitments, provision for ECL is reported as a liability in Provisions for Liabilities and Charges.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 189 189 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Gross carrying amount and write offs.
Gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss allowance.
The Group directly reduces the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when the entity has no reasonable expectations of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof.
The latter includes penalties under the local regulation requirements.
The loans are collectively assessed for write off based on overdue days criteria or are individually evaluated, depending on the loan segment and product type.
The contractual amounts outstanding on loans to customers that have been written off partially or fully during 2018, but are still subject to enforcement activity was principal amount GEL 96 million, accrued interest GEL 18 million and accrued off balance penalty GEL 92 million.
Financial assets derecognition and modification.
The Group derecognises financial assets when a the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets otherwise expired or b the Group has transferred the rights to the cash flows from the financial assets or entered into a qualifying pass-through arrangement while i also transferring substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the assets or ii neither transferring nor retaining substantially all risks and rewards of ownership, but not retaining control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose restrictions on the sale.
The Group sometimes renegotiates or otherwise modifies the contractual terms of the financial assets.
The Group assesses whether the modification of contractual cash flows is substantial considering, among other, the following factors: change in interest rate due to market environment changes, change in the currency denomination: consolidation of two or more loans into one new loan: change in counterparty: loan with no schedule is replaced with loan with schedule or vice versa: Based on below shown internally developed methodology there are certain qualitative triggers which lead to asset derecognition with no further quantitative testing required.
These qualitative criteria are included in the list below: Change in contract currency: Consolidation of two or more loans into one new loan: Change in counterparty: Loan with no schedule is replaced with loan with schedule or vice versa: Change in contractual interest rate due to market environment changes.
The Group compares the original and revised expected cash flows to assets whether the risks and rewards of the asset are substantially different as a result of the contractual modification.
It should be assessed whether change in contractual cash flow is significant significance defined as 10% change.
If the test result is above 10% threshold, loan should be derecognized, whereas if the test is passed and result is below or equal to 10%, financial asset can be assessed as modified.
If the risks and rewards do not change, the modified asset is not substantially 10% test different from the original asset and the modification does not result in derecognition.
The Group recalculates the gross carrying amount by discounting the modified contractual cash flows by the original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate and recognises a modification gain or loss in profit or loss.
Any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified financial asset.
Financial liabilities are classified as subsequently measured at AC, except for i financial liabilities at FVTPL: this classification is applied to derivatives, financial liabilities held for trading e. g. short positions in securities, contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination and other financial liabilities designated as such at initial recognition and ii financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments.
190 190 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents are items which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from the National Bank of Georgia NBG, excluding mandatory reserves, and all interbank placements and interbank receivables with original maturities of less than three months.
Funds restricted for a period of more than three months on origination are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried at AC because: i they are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash flows represent SPPI, and ii they are not designated at FVTPL.
Features mandated solely by legislation, such as the bail-in legislation in certain countries, do not have an impact on the SPPI test, unless they are included in contractual terms such that the feature would apply even if the legislation is subsequently changed.
The payments or receipts presented in the statement of cash flows represent the Groups transfers of cash and cash equivalents, including amounts charged or credited to current accounts of the Groups counterparties held with the Group, such as loan interest income or principal collected by charging the customers current account or interest payments or disbursement of loans credited to the customers current account, which represent cash or cash equivalent from the customers perspective.
Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia.
Mandatory cash balances with the NBG are carried at AC and represent mandatory reserve deposits that are not available to finance the Groups day to day operations.
Hence they are not considered as part of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Amounts due from other banks are recorded when the Group advances money to counterparty banks.
Amounts due from other banks are carried at AC when: i they are held for the purposes of collecting contractual cash flows and those cash flows represent SPPI, and ii they are not designated at FVTPL.
Otherwise they are carried at FV.
Based on the business model and the cash flow characteristics, the Group classifies investments in debt securities as carried at AC, FVOCI or FVTPL.
Debt securities are carried at AC if they are held for collection of contractual cash flows and where those cash flows represent SPPI, and if they are not voluntarily designated at FVTPL in order to significantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
Debt securities are carried at FVOCI if they are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling, where those cash flows represent SPPI, and if they are not designated at FVTPL.
Interest income from these assets is calculated using the effective interest method and recognised in profit or loss.
An impairment allowance estimated using the expected credit loss model is recognised in profit or loss for the year.
All other changes in the carrying value are recognised in OCI.
When the debt security is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from OCI to profit or loss.
Investments in debt securities are carried at FVTPL if they do not meet the criteria for AC or FVOCI.
The Group may also irrevocably designate investments in debt securities at FVTPL on initial recognition if applying this option significantly reduces an accounting mismatch between financial assets and liabilities being recognised or measured on different accounting bases.
Financial assets that meet the definition of equity from the issuers perspective, i. e. instruments that do not contain a contractual obligation to pay cash and that evidence a residual interest in the issuers net assets, are considered as investments in equity securities by the Group.
Investments in equity securities are measured at FVTPL, except where the Group elects at initial recognition to irrevocably designate an equity investments at FVOCI.
The Groups policy is to designate equity investments as FVOCI when those investments are held for strategic purposes other than solely to generate investment returns.
When the FVOCI election is used, fair value gains and losses are recognised in OCI and are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, including on disposal.
Impairment losses and their reversals, if any, are not measured separately from other changes in fair value.
Dividends continue to be recognised in profit or loss when the Groups right to receive payments is established except when they represent a recovery of an investment rather than a return on such investment.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 191 191 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Loans and advances to customers.
Loans and advances to customers are recorded when the Group advances money to purchase or originate a loan due from a customer.
Based on the business model and the cash flow characteristics, the Group classifies loans and advances to customers into one of the following measurement categories: i AC: loans that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash flows represent SPPI and loans that are not voluntarily designated at FVTPL, and ii FVTPL: loans that do not meet the SPPI test or other criteria for AC or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL.
Impairment allowances are determined based on the forward-looking ECL models.
Note 36 provides information about inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used in measuring ECL, including an explanation of how the Group incorporates forward-looking information in the ECL models.
Repossessed collateral represents non-financial assets acquired by the Group to settle overdue loans.
The assets are initially recognised at fair value when acquired and included in premises and equipment, investment property or inventories within other assets depending on their nature and the Groups intention in respect of recovery of these assets and are subsequently re-measured and accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for these categories of assets.
Inventories of repossessed assets are recorded at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The Group issues commitments to provide loans.
These commitments are irrevocable or revocable only in response to a material adverse change.
Such commitments are initially recognised at their fair value, which is normally evidenced by the amount of fees received.
This amount is amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the commitment, except for commitments to originate loans if it is probable that the Group will enter into a specific lending arrangement and does not expect to sell the resulting loan shortly after origination: such loan commitment fees are deferred and included in the carrying value of the loan on initial recognition.
At the end of each reporting period, the commitments are measured at i the remaining unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition, plus ii the amount of the loss allowance determined based on the expected credit loss model, unless the commitment is to provide a loan at a below market interest rate, in which case the measurement is at the higher of these two amounts.
The carrying amount of the loan commitments represents a liability.
Financial guarantees require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value, which is normally evidenced by the amount of fees received.
This amount is amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the guarantee.
At the end of each reporting period, the guarantees are measured at the higher of i the amount of the loss allowance for the guaranteed exposure determined based on the expected loss model and ii the remaining unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition.
In addition, an ECL loss allowance is recognised for fees receivable that are recognised in the statement of financial position as an asset.
Performance guarantees are contracts that provide compensation if another party fails to perform a contractual obligation.
Such contracts transfer non-financial performance risk in addition to credit risk.
Performance guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value, which is normally evidenced by the amount of fees received.
This amount is amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the contract.
At the end of each reporting period, the performance guarantee contracts are measured at the higher of i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the contract at the end of each reporting period, discounted to present value.
Where the Group has the contractual right to revert to its customer for recovering amounts paid to settle the performance guarantee contracts, such amounts will be recognised as an asset upon transfer of the loss compensation to the guarantees beneficiary.
These fees are recognised within fee and commission income in profit or loss.
192 192 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Sale and repurchase agreements.
Sale and repurchase agreements repo agreements, which effectively provide a lenders return to the counterparty, are treated as secured financing transactions.
The lender provides funds to the borrower and receives security as collateral.
Securities sold under such sale and repurchase agreements are not derecognized.
The securities are not reclassified in the statement of financial position unless the transferee has, by contract, the right or custom to sell or repledge the securities, in which case they are reclassified as repurchase receivables.
The corresponding liability is presented within amounts due to credit institutions.
The repurchase agreements are short-term in nature.
Available-for-sale securities or bonds carried at amortised cost reclassified to repurchase receivables continue to be carried at fair value or amortised cost respectively in accordance with the accounting policies for these categories of assets.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repo agreements, which effectively provide a lenders return to the Group, are recorded as due from other banks or loans and advances to customers, as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest income and accrued over the life of repo agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent to counterparties for a fixed fee are retained in the consolidated financial statements in their original category in the statement of financial position unless the counterparty has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge the securities, in which case they are reclassified and presented separately.
Securities borrowed for a fixed fee are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale are recorded in profit or loss for the year within gains less losses arising from trading securities.
The obligation to return the securities is recorded at fair value in other borrowed funds.
Based on classification of securities sold under the sale and repurchase agreements, the Group classifies repurchase receivables into one of the following measurement categories: AC, FVOCI, and FVTPL.
Finance lease receivables Investment in finance lease.
Where the Group is a lessor in a lease that substantially transfers all risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the lessee, the assets leased out are presented as investments in finance leases and carried at the present value of the future lease payments.
Investments in finance leases are initially recognised at commencement when the lease term begins using a discount rate determined at inception the early date of the lease agreement and the date of commitment by the parties to the principal provisions of the lease.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value represents unearned finance income.
This income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
Incremental costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease are included in the initial measurement of the finance lease receivable and reduce the amount of income recognised over the lease term.
Finance income from leases is recorded within interest income in the profit or loss.
The ECL is determined in the same way as for loans and advances measured at AC and recognised through an allowance account to write down the receivables net carrying amount to the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the interest rates implicit in the finance leases.
There is a three stage approach which is based on the change in credit quality of financial lease receivables since initial recognition.
Immediate loss that is equal to the 12-month ECL is recorded on initial recognition of financial leases that are not credit impaired.
In case of a significant increase in credit risk, impairment is measured using lifetime ECL rather than 12-month ECL.
The estimated future cash flows reflect the cash flows that may result from obtaining and selling the assets subject to the lease.
The company recognizes receivables from terminated contracts at the moment of lease contract termination.
These receivables are recognized at amount comprising difference between fair value of repossessed assets and outstanding balance of net investment in finance lease.
Receivables are accounted for at AC less ECL.
Prepayment for purchase of leasing assets.
Prepayment for purchase of leasing assets comprises of interest bearing advance payments made to purchase assets for transfer into leases.
Such advances are accounted for at at AC less ECL.
On commencement of the leases, advances towards lease contracts are transferred into net investment in finance lease.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 193 193 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Due to credit institutions.
Amount due to credit institutions are recorded when counterparty banks advance money or other assets to the Group.
The non-derivative liability is carried at AC.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the consolidated statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in gains or losses arising from retirement of debt.
Customer accounts are non-derivative liabilities to individuals, state or corporate customers and are carried at AC.
Subordinated debt can only be paid in the event of a liquidation after the claims of other higher priority creditors have been met and is included in the Banks tier 2 capital.
Subordinated debt is carried at AC.
Debt securities in issue include promissory notes, bonds, certificates of deposit and debentures issued by the Group.
Debt securities are stated at AC.
If the Group purchases its own debt securities in issue, they are removed from the consolidated statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in gains arising from retirement of debt.
Derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, interest rate futures, forward rate agreements, currency and interest rate swaps, currency and interest rate options are carried at their fair value.
The Group also enters into offsetting deposits with its counterparty banks to exchange currencies.
Such deposits, while legally separate, are aggregated and accounted for as a single derivative financial instrument currency swap on a net basis where i the deposits are entered into at the same time and in contemplation of one another, ii they have the same counterparty, iii they relate to the same risk and iv there is no apparent business purpose for structuring the transactions separately that could not also have been accomplished in a single transaction.
All derivative instruments are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are included in profit or loss.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments are treated as separate derivative instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Such units or group of units represent the lowest level at which the Group monitors goodwill, and are not larger than an operating segment.
Gains or losses on disposal of an operation within a cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated include the carrying amount of goodwill associated with the disposed operation.
This is generally measured on the basis of the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit which is retained.
194 194 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Premises and equipment.
Premises and equipment, except for land, buildings and construction in progress, are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, where required.
Cost of premises and equipment of acquired subsidiaries is the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, land, buildings and construction in progress are carried at a revalued amount, being the fair value at the date of revaluation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed frequently enough to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair values at the end of reporting period.
Any revaluation surplus is credited to the revaluation reserve for premises and equipment included in equity, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
In this case the increase is recognized in profit or loss to the extent of the decrease previously charged.
A revaluation deficit is recognized in profit or loss, except that a deficit directly offsetting a previous surplus on the same asset is recognized in other comprehensive income and reduces revaluation reserve for premises and equipment accumulated in equity.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to profit or loss.
Upon disposal of revalued property, any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold or retired is transferred to retained earnings.
Costs of minor repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred.
Costs of replacing major parts or components of premises and equipment items are capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
If impaired, premises and equipment are written down to the higher of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The decrease in carrying amount is charged to profit or loss to the extent it exceeds the previous revaluation surplus in equity.
An impairment loss recognised for an asset in prior years is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposals determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount are recognised in profit or loss.
Land and construction in progress are not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of premises and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Premises 30 100 years: Furniture and fixtures 5 8 years: Computers and office equipment 3 8 years: Motor vehicles 4 5 years: Other equipment 2 10 years: and Leasehold improvements the term of the underlying lease or if not defined, not more than 7 years.
The residual value of an asset is the estimated amount that the Group would currently obtain from disposal of the asset less the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset was already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Investment property is property that the Groups owns to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both, and that it does not occupy.
Investment property is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, where required.
It is amortised on a straight line basis over an expected useful life of 30 to 50 years.
In case of any indication that the investment properties may be impaired, the Group estimates the recoverable amount as the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The carrying amount of an investment property is written down to its recoverable amount through a charge to profit or loss for the year.
An impairment loss recognised in prior years is reversed if there has been a subsequent change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 195 195 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Investment property continued.
Land included in investment property is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of investment properties is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives of 30 to 50 years.
Residual values of investment properties are estimated to be nil.
Earned rental income is recorded in profit or loss for the year within other operating income.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.
All of the Groups intangible assets have definite useful life and primarily include capitalised computer software and licenses.
Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
All other costs associated with computer software, e. g. its maintenance, are expensed when incurred.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over expected useful lives of 2 to 15 years.
Insurance and reinsurance receivables are recognised based on insurance policy terms and measured at cost.
The carrying value of insurance and reinsurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with any impairment loss recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Reinsurance receivables primarily include balances due from both insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Insurance premiums are recognised as revenue earned premiums proportionally over the period of coverage of respective insurance contracts.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and are gross of any taxes or duties levied on premiums.
Amounts due to reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated reinsured policies and in accordance with the reinsurance contract.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis.
An impairment review is performed on all reinsurance assets when an indication of impairment occurs.
Reinsurance receivables are impaired only if there is objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract that this can be measured reliably.
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure the adequacy of recognised insurance liabilities net of related deferred acquisition costs.
In performing the tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration costs in respect of claims, as well as investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Where tests highlight a deficiency, insurance liabilities are increased with any deficiency being recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Income taxes are provided in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the end of reporting period in the respective territories that the Bank and its subsidiaries operate.
The income tax charge credit comprises of current tax and deferred tax and is recognised in profit or loss except if it is recognised directly in other comprehensive income because it relates to transactions that are also recognised, in the same or a different period, directly in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the amount expected-to-be-paid to or recovered from the tax authorities in respect of taxable profits or losses for the current and prior periods.
Taxable profits or losses are based on estimates if consolidated financial statements are authorised prior to filing relevant tax returns.
Taxes, other than on income, are recorded within administrative and other operating expenses.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method for tax loss carry forwards and temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
In accordance with the initial recognition exemption, deferred taxes are not recorded for temporary differences on initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction other than a business combination if the transaction, when initially recorded, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recorded for temporary differences on initial recognition of goodwill and subsequently for goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax balances are measured at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of reporting period that are expected to apply to the extent of time when the temporary differences will reverse or the tax loss carry forwards will be utilised.
196 196 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Income taxes continued.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted only within the individual companies of the Group.
Deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards are recorded only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductions can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on post-acquisition retained earnings of subsidiaries, except where the Group controls the subsidiarys dividend policy and it is probable that the difference will not reverse through dividends or otherwise in the foreseeable future.
The Groups uncertain tax positions are reassessed by the management at the end of each reporting period.
Liabilities are recorded for income tax positions that are determined by the management as more likely than not to result in additional taxes being levied if the positions were to be challenged by the tax authorities.
The assessment is based on the interpretation of tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of reporting period and any known Court or other rulings on such issues.
Liabilities for penalties, interest and taxes other than on income are recognised based on the managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the end of the reporting period.
Provisions for liabilities and charges.
Provisions for liabilities and charges are non-financial liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are accrued when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Ordinary shares with discretionary dividends are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par value of shares issued is recorded as share premium in equity.
Dividends are recorded in equity in the period in which they are declared.
Any dividends declared after the end of the reporting period and before the consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue, are disclosed in the subsequent events note.
Interest income and expense are recorded for all debt instruments, other than those at FVTPL, on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
As part of interest income or expense this method defers all fees paid or received between the parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
The group does not have Interest income on debt instruments at FVTPL during 2018.
Fees integral to the effective interest rate include origination fees received or paid by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial asset or issuance of a financial liability, for example fees for evaluating creditworthiness, evaluating and recording guarantees or collateral, negotiating the terms of the instrument and for processing transaction documents.
Commitment fees received by the Group to originate loans at market interest rates are integral to the effective interest rate if it is probable that the Group will enter into a specific lending arrangement and does not expect to sell the resulting loan shortly after origination.
The Group does not designate loan commitments as financial liabilities at FVTPL.
Interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of financial assets, except for i financial assets that have become credit impaired Stage 3, for which interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to their AC, net of the ECL provision, and ii financial assets that are purchased or originated credit impaired, for which the original credit-adjusted effective interest rate is applied to the AC.
All other fees, commissions and other income and expense items are generally recorded on an accrual basis by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Fee and commission income is recognised over time on a straight line basis as the services are rendered, when the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Groups performance.
Variable fees are recognised only to the extent that management determines that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 197 197 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Foreign currency translation.
The Groups presentation currency is the Georgian Lari.
TBCGs and the Banks functional currency is the Georgian Lari.
The functional currency of each of the Groups consolidated entities is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency, converted at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into each entitys functional currency at the official exchange rate of the territories where the Bank and its subsidiaries operate, at the respective reporting period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities into each entitys functional currency at year-end official exchange rates are recognised in profit or loss.
Translation at year-end rates does not apply to non-monetary items, including equity investments.
The effects of exchange rate changes on the fair value of equity securities are recorded as part of the fair value gain or loss.
The results and financial position of each group entity the functional currency of none of which is a currency of a hyperinflationary economy are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the end of the respective reporting period: ii Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : iii Components of equity are translated at the historic rate: and iv All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
After losing control over a foreign operation, the exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss for the year as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
On partial disposal of a subsidiary without loss of control, the related portion of accumulated currency translation differences is reclassified to non-controlling interest within equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Staff costs and related contributions.
Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits as well as the cash settled part of the share based payment schemes are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the Groups employees.
Earnings per share EPS are determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Group by the weighted average number of participating shares outstanding during the reporting year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
In calculating diluted EPS, non-vested ordinary shares are treated as outstanding on the grant date.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Segments whose revenue, result or assets are ten percent or more of all the segments are reported separately.
198 198 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Share based payments.
A share-based payment arrangement is an agreement between the entity and another party including an employee that entitles the other party to receive cash or other assets of the entity for amounts that are based on the price or value of equity instruments including shares or share options of the entity or another group entity, or equity instruments including shares or share options of the entity or another group entity, provided the specified vesting conditions, if any, are met.
Under the share-based compensation plan the Group receives services from the management as consideration for equity instruments of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by the reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in the assumptions about the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-marketing vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Increase in equity on accrued shares resulting from the equity settled scheme is accounted for under share based payment reserve.
Upon award of shares to the scheme participants, respective share based payment reserve is transferred to share capital and share premium.
When portions of a single grant vest on two or more dates the entity applies graded vesting for accounting of share based payment arrangement.
Vesting period of each tranche of the grant ends when the employee owns the shares with no further service restrictions.
Under graded vesting scheme the expense for earlier years is higher than for later years.
Each tranche is expensed over its own service period with a credit entry being equity.
Principles applied before 1 January 2018 comparatives only Financial instruments key measurement terms comparatives only.
Depending on their classification financial instruments are carried at fair value, cost, or amortised cost as described below.
This is applicable for assets carried at fair value on a recurring basis in case the Group: a manages the group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the entitys net exposure to a particular market risk or risks or to the credit risk of a particular counterparty in accordance with the entitys documented risk management or investment strategy: b it provides information on that basis about the group of assets and liabilities to the entitys key management personnel: and c the market risks, including duration of the entitys exposure to a particular market risk or risks arising from the financial assets and financial liabilities is substantially the same.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 199 199 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial instruments key measurement terms continued comparatives only.
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition and includes transaction costs.
Measurement at cost is only applicable to investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by the delivery of such unquoted equity instruments.
Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument.
Amortised cost is the amount at which the financial instrument was recognised at initial recognition less any principal repayments, plus accrued interest, and for financial assets less any write-down for incurred impairment losses.
Repayments for Loans are accounted for penalties in the first place, then accrued interest and after that principal amount.
Initial recognition of financial instruments comparatives only.
Trading securities, derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are initially recorded at fair value.
All other financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus the transaction costs.
A gain or a loss on initial recognition is only recorded if there is a difference between the fair value and the transaction price which can be evidenced by other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or by a valuation technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets.
200 200 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derecognition of financial assets comparatives only.
The Group derecognises financial assets when a the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets otherwise expired or b the Group has transferred the rights to the cash flows from the financial assets or entered into a qualifying pass-through arrangement while i also transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets or ii neither transferring nor retaining substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but not retaining control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Cash and cash equivalents comparatives only.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried at amortised cost.
Investment securities available for sale comparatives only.
This classification includes investment securities which the Group intends to hold for an indefinite period of time and which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
The Group classifies investments as available for sale at the time of purchase.
Investment securities available for sale are carried at fair value.
Interest income on available for sale debt securities is calculated using the effective interest method and recognised in profit or loss for the year.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss for the year when the Groups right to receive payment is established and it is probable that the dividends will be collected.
All other elements of changes in the fair value are recognized in Other Comprehensive Income OCI until the investment is derecognised or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from OCI to profit or loss.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events arising after the initial recognition of investment securities available for sale.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity security below its cost is an indicator that it is impaired.
The cumulative impairment loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and reclassified from OCI.
Impairment losses on equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the current periods profit or loss for the year.
Sale and repurchase agreements comparatives only.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest income and accrued over the life of repo agreements using the effective interest rate method.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 201 201 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Loans and advances to customers comparatives only.
Loans and advances to customers are recorded when the Group advances money to purchase or originate an unquoted non-derivative receivable from a customer due on fixed or determinable dates and has no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and advances to customers are carried at amortised cost.
When financial assets are renegotiated and the renegotiated terms and conditions differ substantially from the previous terms, financial asset is derecognized and the new asset is initially recognised at its fair value.
Bonds carried at amortised cost comparatives only.
Investment securities that the Group intends to hold for an indefinite period and that may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices have been classified as available for sale investments in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In 2015 the Group has reassessed its intention with regard to some of the securities under this category and has identified certain investments that the Group has both the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Due to the fact that transactions for such securities do not take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis the securities are not considered to be quoted in an active market and were reclassified to loans and receivables rather than held to maturity investments.
These securities are presented in the balance sheet under caption bonds carried at amortised cost.
When an available-for-sale financial asset with fixed maturity is reclassified to loans and receivables, the fair value of the financial asset on that date becomes its new amortised cost.
Any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised directly in other comprehensive income is amortised to profit and loss over the investments remaining life using the effective interest method.
Impairment of financial assets carried at amortised cost comparatives only.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events that happened after the initial recognition of the financial asset and which have an impact on the amount or timing of the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The Group classifies its borrowers as significant and non-significant ones for impairment allowance estimation purposes and assesses for impairment individually or collectively.
Specific qualitative and quantitative events are outlined for evidence of impairment of individually and collectively assessed borrowers in order to ensure that loss event is identified as early as possible.
If there is evidence that an impairment loss event on significant credit exposures has been incurred, the Bank assesses the borrowers on an individual basis and measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted by the exposures original effective interest rate for fixed rate loans or current effective interest rate for variable rate loans.
The Bank considers two types of sources for recoveries: cash recoveries and or collateral recovery.
For cash recoveries the estimated recoverable amount is equal to the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Collateral recoveries reflect the cash flows that may result from collateral foreclosure.
The Bank uses its best estimates to assess future recoveries, applying scenario analysis and taking into account all relevant information available at the reporting date including adverse changes in general macroeconomic environment or the industry the borrower operates in.
If the Group determines that there is no objective evidence that an individually assessed financial asset incurred in impairment whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
For collective assessment purposes exposures are grouped into a homogenous risk pools based on similar credit risk characteristics.
Common credit risk characteristics of the group include but are not limited to: type of counterparty individual vs. business, type of product, past-due status of the exposure, restructuring status and type of collateral.
In order to calculate impairment allowance for collectively assessed loans pools, the Bank estimates the following risk parameters: probability of default, cure rate, recovery rate, survival rate and loss give default, based on historical experience.
In case of a change in either the internal or external environment and historical data no longer reflect the current situation, the Bank adjusts risk parameters on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of present conditions that did not affect past periods, and to remove the effects of past conditions that do no longer exist.
If the terms of an impaired financial asset held at amortised cost are renegotiated or otherwise modified because of financial difficulties of the borrower or issuer, impairment is measured using the original effective interest rate before the modification of terms.
202 202 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment of financial assets carried at amortised cost comparatives only continued.
The Bank reverses previously recognised impairment loss if, once identified, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease is related to an objective event.
The previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account through profit or loss.
In order to reverse provisions for individually significant borrowers there should be objective evidence that the borrowers financial standing has improved or there is improvement in collateral coverage.
For collectively assessed loans the Bank applies the notion of quarantine period defined as period necessary for an exposure to satisfy performing loans criterias in order to be reclassified in a performing loans pool.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and finance lease receivables comparatives only.
The Group regularly reviews its loan portfolio and finance lease receivables to assess impairment.
In determining whether an impairment loss should be recorded in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the Group conclude whether there is, or not, any observable data indicating a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of loans or finance lease receivables before the decrease can be identified with an individual loan in that portfolio.
This evidence may include observable data indicating that there has been an adverse change in the payment status of borrowers in a group, or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on assets in the group.
When scheduling future cash flows the management uses estimates based on historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating both the amount and timing of future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
A 5% increase or decrease between actual loss experience and the loss estimates used will result in an additional or lower charge for loan loss impairment of GEL 11,393 as at 31 December 2017 2016: GEL 11,251 thousand and additional charge for impairment of finance lease receivables of GEL 63 thousand as at 31 December 2017 2016: GEL 57 thousand, respectively.
Impairment provisions for individually significant loans and leases are based on the estimate of discounted future cash flows of the individual loans and leases taking into account repayments and realisation of any assets held as collateral against the loan or the lease.
A 5% increase or decrease in the actual future discounted cash flows from individually significant loans which could arise from a mixture of differences in amounts and timing of the cash flows will result in an additional or lower charge for loan loss provision of GEL 1,454 thousand as at 31 December 2017 2016: GEL 2,701 thousand, respectively.
A 5% increase or decrease in the actual future discounted cash flows from individually significant leases which could arise from a mixture of differences in amounts and timing of the cash flows will result in an additional or lower charge for provision of GEL 14 thousand as at 31 December 2017 2016: GEL 9 thousand, respectively.
Credit related commitments comparatives only.
The Group enters into credit related commitments, including letters of credit and financial guarantees.
Financial guarantees represent irrevocable assurances to make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties and carry the same credit risk as loans.
Financial guarantees and commitments to provide a loan are initially recognised at their fair value, which is normally evidenced by the amount of fees received.
This amount is amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the commitments, except for those to originate loans if it is probable that the Group will enter into a specific lending arrangement and does not expect to sell the resulting loan shortly after origination: Such loan commitment fees are deferred and included in the carrying value of the loan on initial recognition.
At the end of each reporting period, the commitments are measured at the higher of i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the commitment at the end of each reporting period.
are contracts that provide compensation if another party fails to perform a contractual obligation.
Such contracts do not transfer credit risk.
Performance guarantees are recorded off-balance sheet at initiation.
Fee income is recognized as earned over the lifetime of a respective contract.. At the end of each reporting period, the provision for performance guarantee contracts are measured at the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the contract at the end of each reporting period, discounted to present value if the discounting effect is material.
The Bank has the contractual right to revert to its customer for recovering amounts paid to settle the performance guarantee contracts.
Such amounts are recognised as loans and receivables.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 203 203 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Finance lease receivables Investment in finance lease comparatives only.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events that took place after the initial recognition of investments in leases.
The Group uses the same principal criteria to determine that there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred as for loans carried at amortised costs disclosed earlier in this note.
Impairment losses are recognised through an allowance account to write down the receivables net carrying amount to the present value of expected cash flows which exclude future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the interest rates implicit in the finance leases.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on the managements experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The management also makes certain judgements, apart from those involving estimations, in the process of applying the accounting policies.
Judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and estimates that can cause a significant adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include: 204 204 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 3.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ECL measurement.
Measurement of ECLs is a significant estimate that involves forecasting future economic conditions, longer the term of forecasts more management judgment is applied and those judgements may be the source of uncertainty.
Details of ECL measurement methodology are disclosed in Note 36.
The following components have a major impact on credit loss allowance: definition of default, definition of significant increase in credit risk SICR, probability of default PD, exposure at default EAD, and loss given default LGD, as well as models of macro-economic scenarios.
The Group regularly reviews and validates the models and inputs to the models to reduce any differences between expected credit loss estimates and actual credit loss experience.
Significant increase in credit risk SICR.
The Bank applies both qualitative and quantitative indicators to determination of SICR considering all reasonable and supportable information available without undue cost and effort, on past events, current conditions and future behavioural aspects of particular portfolios.
The Bank tries to identify indicators of increase in credit risk of individual instruments prior to delinquency and incorporates significant assumptions in the model in doing so.
One of such judgement is determination of thresholds of significant increase in credit risk.
20% decrease in SICR thresholds would increase impairment allowance on loans and advances by GEL 2,056 thousand and would result in a change of the Banks cost of credit risk ratio by 2 basis points.
10% increase in Stage 2 exposures would increase impairment allowance on loans and advances by GEL 2,723 thousand and would result in a change of the Banks cost of credit risk ratio by 3 basis points.
Risk parameters: Probability of default PD and Loss given default LGD parameters are one of the key drivers of expected credit losses.
A 10% increase decrease in PD estimates at 31 December 2018 would increase decrease impairment allowance on loans and advances by GEL 18,876 thousand GEL 18,942 thousand and would result in a change of the Banks cost of credit risk ratio by 21 21 basis points.
As for the LGD ratio, a 10% increase decrease in LGD estimates at 31 December 2018 would increase decrease impairment allowance on loans and advances by GEL 28,185 thousand GEL 28,012 thousand and would result in a change of the Banks cost of credit risk ratio by 31 31 basis points.
Macro-economic scenarios: The Bank incorporates forward-looking information with three macro-economic scenarios to calculate unbiased and probability weighted ECL.
They represent the Baseline scenario most likely outcome and two less likely scenarios, referred as the Upside better than Baseline and Downside worse than Baseline.
Weight for the baseline scenario is set to 50% and 25% weight is applied for each less likely scenarios.
To set the weight assigned to upside forward looking macro-economic set of assumptions to 15% and respectively increase the weight of the downside level assumptions from current 25% to 35% would increase impairment allowance on loans and advances by GEL 4,860 thousand and would result in a change of the Banks cost of credit risk ratio by 5 basis points as at December 2018.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 205 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS Adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The Group adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, from 1 January 2018.
The Group elected not to restate comparative figures and recognised any adjustments to the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities in the opening retained earnings as of the date of initial application of the standard, 1 January 2018.
Consequently, the revised requirements of the IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, have only been applied to the current period.
The comparative period disclosures repeat those disclosures made in the prior year.
The significant new accounting policies applied in the current period are described in Note 2.
Accounting policies applied prior to 1 January 2018 and applicable to the comparative information are disclosed in Note 2.
206 206 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 4.
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS CONTINUED The following table reconciles the carrying amounts of each class of financial assets as previously measured in accordance with IAS 39 and the new amounts determined upon adoption of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
Carrying value Carrying value Measurement category Remeasurement per IAS 39 per IFRS 9 closing opening balance at balance at In thousands of GEL IAS 39 IFRS 9 31 December 2017 ECL Effect 1 January 2018 Loans and Cash and cash equivalents receivables Amortised cost 1,431,477 491 1,430,986 Mandatory cash balances with Loans and the National Bank of Georgia receivables Amortised cost 1,033,818 - 1,033,818 Fair value through other comprehensive Investments in debt securities Available-for-sale income 656,234 1,051 655,183 Loans and Investments in debt securities receivables Amortised cost 449,538 628 448,910 Total investments in debt securities 1,105,772 1,679 1,104,093 Fair value through other comprehensive Investments in equity securities Available-for-sale income 1,704 - 1,704 Total investments in equity securities 1,704 - 1,704 Loans and Due from other banks receivables Amortised cost 39,643 36 39,607 Loans and Loans and advances to customers receivables Amortised cost 8,325,353 63,731 8,261,622 Total loans and advances to customers 8,325,353 63,731 8,261,622 Finance lease Finance lease Investment in finance lease receivables receivables 143,836 739 143,097 Total Investment in Finance Lease 143,836 739 143,097 Loans and Other financial assets receivables Amortised cost 146,144 1,019 145,125 Total other financial assets 146,144 1,019 145,125 Total financial assets 12,227,747 67,695 12,160,052 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 207 207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS CONTINUED In addition to the GEL 67,700 thousands increase in total provision level for financial assets as at 1 January 2018, there has been a release of provision level for credit related commitments and performance guarantee contracts upon transition to the IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 in amount of GEL 4,100 thousands.
As a result, total provision at the Group level increased by GEL 63,600 thousands as at 1 January 2018.
There were no material changes in amounts of financial liabilities.
The impact GEL 63,600 thousands was recognized as a reduction of retained earnings in the consolidated financial statements from the adoption of the new standard on 1 January 2018.
Related tax amount has been recognised according to local tax legislation and was considered during reassessment during deferred tax amount as of the reporting date.
All classes of cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in Note 6 were reclassified from loans and receivables L&R measurement category under IAS 39 to AC measurement category under IFRS 9 at the adoption date of the standard.
The Group recognised credit loss allowance as disclosed above.
All classes of due from other banks balances were reclassified from L&R measurement category under IAS 39 to AC measurement category under IFRS 9. b Investments in debt securities.
The following debt instruments have been reclassified to new categories under IFRS 9, as their previous categories under IAS 39 were retired, with no changes to their measurement basis: - those previously classified as AFS and now classified as measured at FVOCI: and - those previously classified as L&R measurement category now classified as measured at AC.
The Group has elected to irrevocably designate strategic investments in a portfolio of nontrading equity securities as at FVOCI as permitted under IFRS 9.
These securities were previously classified as AFS.
The changes in fair value of such securities will no longer be reclassified to profit or loss when they are impaired or disposed of.
All other equity investments were classified at FVTPL as required by IFRS 9.
Loans and advances to customers.
All classes of Loans and advances to customers balances were reclassified from L&R measurement category under IAS 39 to AC measurement category under IFRS 9.
The Group does not hold such kind of portfolio of loans and advances to customers that failed to meet the SPPI requirement.
Reconciliation of provision for impairment at 31 December 2017 and credit loss allowance at 1 January 2018.
The following table reconciles the prior periods closing provision for impairment measured in accordance with incurred loss model under IAS 39 to the new credit loss allowance measured in accordance with expected loss model under IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018: Effect Credit loss allowance Remeasu-rement from under IFRS 9 at 1 Provision under IAS 39 or incurred to expected January In thousands of GEL IAS 37 at 31 Dec 2017 loss 2018 Loans and receivables measurment category - Cash and cash equivalents - 491 491 - Investment in debt securities - 1,679 1,679 - Due from other Banks - 36 36 - Loans and advances to customers 227,864 63,731 291,595 - Investment in finance lease 1,498 739 2,237 - Other financial assets 18,020 1,019 19,039 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees 13,200 4,100 9,100 At 31 December 2017, all of the Groups financial liabilities except for derivatives were carried at AC.
The derivatives belonged to the FVTPL measurement category under IAS 39.
There were no changes to the classification and measurement of financial liabilities 208 208 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 4.
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS CONTINUED Adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers issued on 28 May 2014 and effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and Amendments to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers issued on 12 April 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with the date of initial application of 1 January 2018.
The new standard was applied using the modified retrospective method, with the cumulative effect recognised in retained earnings on 1 January 2018.
The standard introduced the core principle that revenue must be recognised when the goods or services are transferred to the customer, at the transaction price.
Any bundled goods or services that are distinct must be separately recognised, and any discounts or rebates on the contract price must generally be allocated to the separate elements.
When the consideration varies for any reason, minimum amounts must be recognised if they are not at significant risk of reversal.
Costs incurred to secure contracts with customers have to be capitalised and amortised over the period when the benefits of the contract are consumed.
The standard did not have a material impact on the Group.
The Group analysed its main revenue streams under the scope of IFRS 15 which are fee and commission income from card operations, cash and settlement transactions, other operating income generated from sales of inventory, investment property, and equipment.
Those revenue streams were not affected by transition to IFRS 15 as there were no material changes to the revenue recognition process of applicable revenue streams, the Group had already been recognizing revenue over period of time, in line with the fulfilment of the respective performance obligations.
The Group will continue to accrue over period of time those incomes that are earned from services that are provided over a period of time.
The following amended standards became effective for the Group from 1 January 2018, but did not have any material impact on the Group: Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment issued on 20 June 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 : Amendments to IFRS 4 - Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts issued on 12 September 2016 and effective, depending on the approach, for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 for entities that choose to apply temporary exemption option, or when the entity first applies IFRS 9 for entities that choose to apply the overlay approach : Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 cycle Amendments to IFRS 1 an IAS 28 issued on 8 December 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 : IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration issued on 8 December 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 : Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property issued on 8 December 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Minor amendments to IFRSs.
The IASB has published a number of minor amendments some of which has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group has not early adopted any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2018 and it expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of TBC Bank Group PLC.
IFRS 16 Leases issued on 13 January 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The new standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
All leases result in the lessee obtaining the right to use an asset at the start of the lease and, if lease payments are made over time, also obtaining financing.
Accordingly, IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Lessees will be required to recognise: a assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and b depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 209 209 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS CONTINUED IFRS 16 Leases issued on 13 January 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 continued.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
The Group decided that it will apply the standard using the modified retrospective method, without restatement of comparatives.
The Group recognised a right of use asset of GEL 61,043 thousand against a corresponding lease liability on 1 January 2019.
"A reconciliation of the operating lease commitments disclosed in Note 38 to this liability is as follows: 31 December 2018 In thousands of GEL 1 January 2019 Total future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases Note 38 11,022 - Future lease payments that are due in periods subject to lease extension options that are reasonably certain to be exercised 58,573 - Effect of discounting to present value 8,552 Total effect on the Right of the use asset and Lease Liability 61,043 IFRS 17 ""Insurance Contracts"" issued on 18 May 2017 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021."
IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4, which has given companies dispensation to carry on accounting for insurance contracts using existing practices.
As a consequence, it was difficult for investors to compare and contrast the financial performance of otherwise similar insurance companies.
IFRS 17 is a single principle-based standard to account for all types of insurance contracts, including reinsurance contracts that an insurer holds.
The standard requires recognition and measurement of groups of insurance contracts at: i a risk-adjusted present value of the future cash flows the fulfilment cash flows that incorporates all of the available information about the fulfilment cash flows in a way that is consistent with observable market information: plus if this value is a liability or minus if this value is an asset ii an amount representing the unearned profit in the group of contracts the contractual service margin.
Insurers will be recognising the profit from a group of insurance contracts over the period they provide insurance coverage, and as they are released from risk.
If a group of contracts is or becomes loss-making, an entity will be recognising the loss immediately The Group is currently assessing the impact of the interpretation on its financial statements.
"IFRIC 23 ""Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments"" issued on 7 June 2017 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019."
IAS 12 specifies how to account for current and deferred tax, but not how to reflect the effects of uncertainty.
The interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
An entity should determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax treatments based on which approach better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty.
An entity should assume that a taxation authority will examine amounts it has a right to examine and have full knowledge of all related information when making those examinations.
If an entity concludes it is not probable that the taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the effect of uncertainty will be reflected in determining the related taxable profit or loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates, by using either the most likely amount or the expected value, depending on which method the entity expects to better predict the resolution of the uncertainty.
An entity will reflect the effect of a change in facts and circumstances or of new information that affects the judgments or estimates required by the interpretation as a change in accounting estimate.
Examples of changes in facts and circumstances or new information that can result in the reassessment of a judgment or estimate include, but are not limited to, examinations or actions by a taxation authority, changes in rules established by a taxation authority or the expiry of a taxation authority's right to examine or re-examine a tax treatment.
The absence of agreement or disagreement by a taxation authority with a tax treatment, in isolation, is unlikely to constitute a change in facts and circumstances or new information that affects the judgments and estimates required by the Interpretation.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the interpretation on its financial statements.
210 210 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 6.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Cash on hand 491,928 419,605 402,532 Cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia other than mandatory reserve deposits 118,749 371,342 135,557 Correspondent accounts and overnight placements with other banks 371,902 571,078 406,319 Placements with and receivables from other banks with original maturities of less than three months 184,429 69,452 772 Total gross amount of cash and equivalents 1,167,008 1,431,477 945,180 Less: Credit loss allowance 97 - - Total cash and cash equivalents 1,166,911 1,431,477 945,180 95% of the correspondent accounts and overnight placements with other banks are placed with OECD banking institutions 31 December 2017: 97%: 31 December 2016: 96%.
As of 31 December 2018 GEL 13,383 thousand was placed on interbank term deposits with one non-OECD bank and GEL 171,046 thousand with two OECD bank 31 December 2017: GEL 12,421 thousand with one non-OECD bank and GEL 57,031 thousand with one OECD bank: 31 December 2016: GEL 772 thousand with four non-OECD banks.
When different credit ratings are designated by the agencies, the highest designated rating for this asset is used, after introduction of IFRS 9, as of January 2018, for those financial institutions which are not assigned credit ratings country ratings are used.
As of 31 December 2018 there were no investment securities held as collateral against placements with other banks under the reverse repo agreements 31 December 2017: nil: 2016: nil.
For the purpose of ECL measurement cash and cash equivalents balances are included in Stage 1.
As the ECL for year 2018 is measured per IFRS 9, it is not comparable to the prior periods.
The material Investing transaction that did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents, and were excluded from the statement of cash flows represents the conversion of JSC TBC Bank's shares.
For more details regarding the transaction please refer to note 25.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 211 211 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
DUE FROM OTHER BANKS Amounts due from other banks include placements with original maturities of more than three months that are not collateralised and represent neither past due nor impaired amounts at the end of 2018, 2017 and 2016. Credit ratings of placements with other banks with original maturities of more than three months were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 AA 8,913 - - A - 8,632 13,210 BBB 80 78 79 BBB 3,838 - 5,541 BB 4,388 - - BB- 26,238 4,041 801 B 3,194 661 - B 665 1,520 5,073 Not rated - 24,711 21 Total 47,316 39,643 24,725 As of 31 December 2018 the TBC Bank had one placement with one bank, with original maturities of more than three months and with aggregated amounts above GEL 5,000 thousand 2017: one placement with one bank: 2016: nil.
The total aggregated amount of these placement was GEL 19,311 thousand 2017: GEL 23,147 thousand: 2016: nil or 40.8% of the total amount due from other 2017: 58%: 2016: nil.
As of 31 December 2018 GEL 15,725 thousand, 2017: GEL 13,121 thousand: 2016: GEL 19,511 thousand were kept on deposits as restricted cash under an arrangement with a credit card company or credit card related services with other banks.
Refer to Note 42 for the estimated fair value of amounts due from other banks.
Interest rate analysis of due from other banks is disclosed in Note 36.
The ECL for year 2018 is measured per IFRS 9 and it is not comparable to the prior periods.
For the purpose of ECL measurement due from other banks balances are included in Stage 1.
The ECL for these balances as at 31 December 2018 is GEL 39 thousand.
MANDATORY CASH BALANCES WITH THE NATIONAL BANK OF GEORGIA Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia NBG represent amounts deposited with the NBG.
Resident financial institutions are required to maintain an interest-earning obligatory reserve with the NBG, the amount of which depends on the level of funds attracted by the financial institutions.
The Group earned up to 6.0%, 0.8% and 0.6% annual interest in GEL, USD and EUR respectively on mandatory reserve with NBG in 2018 2017: 5.0%, 0.6% and 0.4% in GEL, USD and EUR respectively: 2016: 5.0%, 0.0% and 0.4% in GEL, USD and EUR respectively.
In August 2018 Fitch Ratings has affirmed Georgia's Long-Term Foreign and Local-Currency Issuer Default Ratings IDRs at 'BB-' with a positive outlook.
The issue ratings on Georgia's long-term senior unsecured foreign and local-currency bonds are also affirmed at 'BB-'.
The Country Ceiling is affirmed at 'BB ' and the Short-term Foreign and Local-Currency IDRs at 'B'.
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Corporate loans 3,177,289 2,475,392 2,062,229 Consumer loans 1,989,516 2,163,425 1,872,142 Mortgage loans 2,709,183 2,069,728 1,808,434 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 2,496,594 1,844,672 1,615,920 Total gross loans and advances to customers at AC 10,372,582 8,553,217 7,358,725 Less: credit loss allowance 334,130 227,864 225,023 Total carrying amount of loans and advances to customers at AC 10,038,452 8,325,353 7,133,702 The credit loss allowance as at 31 December 2018 is reported under IFRS 9 and is not comparable to the information presented for 2017 and 2016.
212 212 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 9.
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS CONTINUED As of 31 December 2018 loans and advances to customers carried at GEL 228,454 thousand have been pledged to local banks or other financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2017: GEL 246,267 thousand: 2016: GEL 120,093 thousand.
In 2018, the Group has reassessed its definition of segments as disclosed in Note 28.
Some of the clients were reallocated to different segments.
Comparative information as of 31 December 2017 has not been updated due to impracticability.
The following table discloses the changes in the credit loss allowance and gross carrying amount for loans and advances to customers carried at amortised cost between the beginning and the end of the reporting period Corporate loans Gross carrying amount Credit loss allowance Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 2 lifetime Stage 2 lifetime Stage 1 lifetime ECL for Stage 1 lifetime ECL for 12-months ECL for credit im- 12-months ECL for credit imIn thousands of GEL ECL SICR paired Total ECL SICR paired Total At 1 January 2018 2,041,538 325,919 107,935 2,475,392 21,208 15,036 31,719 67,963 Transfers: - to lifetime from Stage 1 and stage 3 to Stage 2 93,957 100,702 6,745 - 1,811 2,185 374 - - to credit-impaired from Stage 1 and Stage 2 to Stage 3 3,395 85,409 88,804 - 32 8,341 8,373 - - to 12-months ECL from Stage 2 and Stage 3 to Stage 1 129,019 126,886 2,133 - 3,908 3,908 - - New originated or purchased 1,787,999 - -1,787,999 22,031 - - 22,031 Derecognised during the period 873,776 53,958 14,720 942,454 9,217 3,140 21,293 33,650 Net repayments 145,691 25,028 39,857 210,576 - - - - Other movements 2 - - 2 - - - - Resegmentation 36,699 488 - 37,187 283 - - 283 Net Write-offs - - 321 321 - - 3,269 3,269 Net remeasurement due to stage transfers and risk parameters changes - - - - 3,430 3,162 21,877 21,609 FX movements24,875 2,887 2,298 30,060 - - - - At 31 December 2018 2,903,313 138,715 135,261 3,177,289 32,940 4,994 43,571 81,505 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 213 213 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS CONTINUED Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2018 are as follows: Loans to micro, small and medium In thousands of GEL Corporate loans Consumer loans Mortgage loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 31 December 2017 49,626 121,538 17,577 39,123 227,864 IFRS 9 effect 18,337 33,032 5,232 7,129 63,730 Credit Loss allowance as of 1 January 2018 67,963 154,570 22,809 46,252 291,594 Resegmentation effect 446 14,889 21 14,464 - Credit loss allowance during the year 13,416 139,143 5,648 32,194 190,401 Amounts written off during the period as uncollectible 320 122,095 3,576 22,004 147,995 Effect of translation to presentation currency - 6 28 108 130 Credit Loss allowance as of 31 December 2018 81,505 156,723 24,888 71,014 334,130 Loans and advances to customers written off in 2018 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 43,422 thousand issued in 2018, out of which, none was previously issued performance guarantee transformed into loan in 2018 and GEL 104,573 thousand issued in previous years.
Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2017 were as follows: Loans to micro, small and medium In thousands of GEL Corporate loans Consumer loans Mortgage loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 1 January 2017 90,100 73,730 23,602 37,591 225,023 Recovery of provision for impairment during the year 11,088 130,333 384 21,521 141,150 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 29,386 82,601 6,507 20,265 138,759 Effect of translation to presentation currency - 76 98 276 450 Provision for loan impairment as of 31 December 2017 49,626 121,538 17,577 39,123 227,864 Loans and advances to customers written off in 2017 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 21,056 thousand issued in 2017, a previously issued performance guarantee of GEL 6 thousand which was transformed into loan in 2017 and GEL 117,697 thousand issued in previous years.
Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2016 were as follows: Loans to micro, small and medium In thousands of GEL Corporate loans Consumer loans Mortgage loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 1 January 2016 108,050 42,433 13,135 30,525 194,143 Resegmentation effect - 10,092 - 10,092 - Total provision for impairment during the year: 11,841 71,369 15,108 31,136 105,772 Provision for impairment charged to income statement during the year 48,948 60,438 12,572 25,140 49,202 Recoveries of loans previously written off 37,107 10,931 2,536 5,996 56,570 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 6,109 50,121 4,580 13,755 74,565 Effect of translation to presentation currency - 43 61 223 327 Provision for loan impairment as of 31 December 2016 90,100 73,730 23,602 37,591 225,023 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 217 217 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS CONTINUED Loans and advances to customers written off in 2016 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 9,830 thousand issued in 2016, a previously issued performance guarantee of GEL 0.14 thousand which was transformed into loan in 2016 and GEL 64,735 thousand issued in previous years.
The credit loss allowance for loans and advances to customers recognised in the period is impacted by a variety of factors, details of ECL measurement are provided in Note 36.
In 2018 the Group applied the portfolio provisioning methodology prescribed by IFRS 9.
For details please refer to Note 2.
For the periods before 1 January 2018, the Group applied the portfolio provisioning methodology prescribed by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and it created portfolio provisions for impairment losses that were incurred but have not been specifically identified with any individual loan by the end of reporting period.
The table below contains an analysis of the credit risk exposure of loans and advances to customers measured at AC and for which an ECL allowance is recognised.
The carrying amount of loans and advances to customers below also represents the Group's maximum exposure to credit risk on these loans.
For the periods before 1 January 2018, the Groups policy for credit risk management purposes was to classify each loan as neither past due nor impaired, past due but not impaired, individually assessed impaired loans and collectively assessed impaired loans.
The pool of neither past due nor impaired loans included exposures that were not overdue and were not classified as impaired.
Past due but not impaired loans included overdue performing loans but with no objective evidence of impairment identified.
The classification included as well triggered loans that were not impaired because the current value of the expected cash and collateral recoveries were sufficient for full repayment.
Individually assessed impaired loans included exposures which were assessed for impairment on an individual basis, and an ad-hoc impairment allowance was created.
Collectively assessed impaired loans included exposures for which objective evidence of impairment was identified and the respective collective impairment allowance was created.
The Group conducts collective assessment of the borrowers on a monthly basis.
As for the individual assessment, it is performed quarterly.
Individually assessed impaired loans include exposures which are impaired and individual impairment is applied based on individual assessment.
Collectively assessed impaired loans include exposures for which default triggers were identified and the respective collective impairment allowance was created.
Both individually and collectively impaired loans are classified as stage 3 exposures.
218 218 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 9.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 219 219 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
The total aggregated amount of these loans was GEL 3,054,314 thousand 2017: GEL 2,437,750 thousand: 2016: GEL 1,900,916 thousand or 29.4% of the gross loan portfolio 2017: 28.5%: 2016: 25.8%.
The amount and type of collateral required depend on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
There are three key types of collateral: Real estate: Movable property including fixed assets, inventory and precious metals: Financial assets including deposits, stocks, and third party guarantees.
The financial effect of collateral is presented by disclosing the collateral values separately for i those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are equal to or exceed the assets carrying value over-collateralised assets and ii those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are less than the assets carrying value under-collateralised assets.
The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2018: Over-collateralised Assets Under-collateralised assets In thousands of GEL Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Corporate loans 2,857,207 6,516,492 320,082 47,249 Consumer loans 1,213,594 2,543,720 775,922 34,242 Mortgage loans 2,663,362 5,404,518 45,821 28,934 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 2,340,847 5,324,290 155,747 68,110 Total 9,075,010 19,789,020 1,297,572 178,535 222 222 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 9.
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS CONTINUED The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2017: Over-collateralised Assets Under-collateralised assets In thousands of GEL Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Corporate loans 2,129,927 5,194,598 345,465 97,386 Consumer loans 908,387 2,132,566 1,255,038 25,781 Mortgage loans 2,042,001 4,429,201 27,727 17,189 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 1,688,438 3,970,931 156,234 146,949 Total 6,768,753 15,727,296 1,784,464 287,305 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2016: Over-collateralised Assets Under-collateralised assets In thousands of GEL Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Carrying value of the assets Fair value of collateral Corporate loans 1,849,202 5,683,279 213,027 109,076 Consumer loans 1,040,644 2,761,580 831,498 28,102 Mortgage loans 1,780,553 4,694,003 27,881 16,360 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 1,479,200 4,959,947 136,720 131,967 Total 6,149,599 18,098,809 1,209,126 285,505 The financial effect of collateral is determined by comparing the fair value of collateral to outstanding gross loans and advances in the reporting date.
At the central level a specific unit manages collateral to ensure that they serve as an adequate mitigation for credit risk management purposes.
In line with the Group's internal policies, collateral provided to loans are evaluated by the Internal Appraisal Group external reviewers are used in case of loans to related parties or specific cases when complex objects are appraised.
The Internal Appraisal Group is part of the collateral management unit and, in order to ensure adequate and objective appraisal procedures, it is independent from the loan granting process.
Real estate collateral of significant value is re-evaluated annually by internal appraisers.
Statistical methods are used to monitor the value of real estate collateral that are of non-significant value and other types of collaterals such as movable assets and precious metals.
Collateral values include the contractual price of third-party guarantees, which, due to their nature, are capped at the loans carrying value.
The values of third-party guarantees in the tables above amounted to GEL625,719 thousand, GEL 527,498 thousand and GEL 608,058 thousand as of 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.
These third-party guarantees are not taken into consideration when assessing the impairment allowance.
Refer to Note 42 for the estimated fair value of each class of loans and advances to customers.
Interest rate analysis of loans and advances to customers is disclosed in Note 36.
Information on related party balances is disclosed in Note 44.
Gains less losses recognised in profit or loss on modifications of loans with lifetime ECL that did not lead to derecognition was GEL 196 thousand.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 223 223 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INVESTMENT SECURITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Figures below represent Investment securities measured at FVOCI under IFRS 9 since 1 January 2018, previously classified under available-for-sale category under IAS 39.
The credit loss allowance as at 31 December 2018 is reported under IFRS 9 and is not comparable to the information presented for 2017 and 2016.
In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Corporate bonds 549,477 328,761 150,073 Ministry of Finance of Georgia Treasury Bills 373,447 319,745 241,810 Certificates of Deposit of the National Bank of Georgia 14,985 7,728 36,002 Georgian Government notes - - 1,016 Netherlands Government Bonds 66,760 - - Less: Credit loss allowance 1,136 - - Total debt securities 1,003,533 656,234 428,901 Corporate shares unquoted 1,706 1,704 1,802 Total investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,005,239 657,938 430,703 All debt securities except for corporate bonds and Netherlands Government Bonds are issued by the Government of Georgia and National Bank of Georgia.
Country rating for Georgia stands at BBwith stable outlook as assigned by international rating agencies in August 2018.
63.0% of corporate bonds are issued by triple A rated international financial institutions, 21.9% of corporate bonds are issued by Arated international financial institutions and 4.8% corporate bonds are issued at BBrating, whereas 9.8% and 0.5% of corporate bonds are issued by B and B rated corporations respectively.
The investees have not published recent financial information about their operations, their shares are not quoted and recent trade prices are not publicly accessible.
At 1 January 2018, the Group designated investments in corporate shares disclosed in the above table as equity securities at FVOCI.
In 2017, these investments were classified as AFS.
Refer to Note 4 for details.
The FVOCI designation was made because the investments are expected to be held for strategic purposes rather than with a view to profit on a subsequent sale, and there are no plans to dispose of these investments in the short or medium term.
As of 31 December 2018 investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income carried at GEL 613,466 thousand have been pledged to local banks or financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2017: GEL 424,892 thousand: 2016: GEL 205,216 thousand.
None of the debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are overdue or impaired.
As of 31 December 2018 the principal equity investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are as follows: Nature of business Country of registration Carrying value as of 31 December In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 JSC GRDC Property development Netherlands Antilles 365 365 365 Georgian Stock Exchange Stock exchange Georgia 1,004 1,004 1,004 Other 337 335 433 Total 1,706 1,704 1,802 The movements in investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are as follows: In thousands of GEL Note 2018 2017 2016 Carrying amount as of 1 January 657,938 430,703 307,310 Business Combination - - 153,004 Purchases 717,630 560,226 143,783 Disposals 14,781 - 14,679 Redemption at maturity 370,571 345,748 167,115 Revaluation 6,949 5,489 522 Interest income accrued 29 57,057 43,735 25,707 Interest income received 48,442 36,214 17,900 Impairment related to investment in equity security - - 11 Effect of translation to presentation currency 595 158 82 Transfer to investments in associate - 95 - 1,136 - - Credit loss allowance Carrying amount as of 31 December 1,005,239 657,938 430,703 For the purpose of ECL measurement, securities balances are included in Stage 1.
Refer to Note 36 for the ECL measurement 224 224 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 11.
BONDS CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills 654,618 424,876 323,478 Certificates of Deposit of the National Bank of Georgia - 24,662 43,408 Georgian Government notes - - 6,070 Corporate bonds 500 - - Less: Credit loss allowance 915 - - Total bonds carried at amortised cost 654,203 449,538 372,956 All debt securities except for corporate bonds are issued by the Government of Georgia and National Bank of Georgia.
Country rating for Georgia stands at BBwith stable outlook as per international rating agencies in August 2018.
The movements in bonds carried at amortised cost are as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Carrying amount as of 1 January 449,538 372,956 372,092 Purchases 396,217 307,248 304,109 Redemption at maturity 200,658 242,380 314,231 Interest income accrual 40,625 32,328 30,714 Interest income received 30,611 20,601 19,740 Effect of translation to presentation currency 7 13 12 Credit loss allowance 915 - - Carrying amount as of 31 December 654,203 449,538 372,956 For the disclosure of bonds fair value carried at amortised cost refer to Note 42.
An analysis on interest rate for bonds carried at amortised cost is disclosed in Note 36.
As of 31 December 2018 bonds carried at amortised cost of GEL 212,337 thousand have been pledged to local banks or financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2017: GEL 223,860 thousand: 2016: GEL 273,311 thousand.
None of the bonds carried at amortised cost as of 31 December 2018, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 were either overdue or impaired.
For the purpose of ECL measurement securities balances are included in Stage 1.
Refer to Note 36 for the ECL measurement approach.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Receivables from sales of repossessed assets 43,671 6,619 10,603 Receivables on guarantees letters of credit 36,869 20,983 18,215 Prepayments for purchase of leasing assets 32,293 25,478 10,628 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 21,451 15,742 2,249 Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 14,390 26,703 24,801 Receivable on terminated leases 12,651 8,961 7,832 Trade receivable 8,292 13,862 2,232 Rental income receivables 3,492 4,414 3,816 Bank assurance income receivable 2,527 15,923 4,549 Factored receivables - 6,182 900 Other 19,976 19,297 15,462 Total gross amount of other financial assets 195,612 164,164 101,287 Less: Credit loss allowance 28,094 18,020 6,660 Total carrying amount of other financial assets 167,518 146,144 94,627 The credit loss allowance as at 31 December 2018 is reported under IFRS 9 and is not comparable to the information presented for 2017 and 2016.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 225 225 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED Movements in the credit loss allowance of other financial assets during 2018 were as follows: Receivables on In thousands of GEL terminated leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 31 December 2017 6,234 11,786 18,020 IFRS 9 effect - 1,019 1,019 Credit loss allowance as of 1 January 2018 6,234 12,805 19,039 Credit loss allowance during the year 3,143 12,097 15,240 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible - 6,404 6,404 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses - 219 219 Credit loss allowance as of 31 December 2018 9,377 18,717 28,094 Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for credit loss allowance of other financial assets include write-off of insurance debtors in the amount of GEL 163 thousand that are included in insurance and reinsurance receivables.
Movements in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during 2017 were as follows: Receivables on In thousands of GEL terminated leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 1 January 2017 4,666 1,994 6,660 Provision for impairment during the year 1,568 10,645 12,213 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible - 1,011 1,011 Recovery of amounts previously written off - 189 189 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses - 31 31 Provision for impairment as of 31 December 2017 6,234 11,786 18,020 Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for provision for of other financial assets include write-off of insurance debtors in the amount of GEL 226 thousand that are included in insurance and reinsurance receivables.
Movements in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during 2016 are as follows: Receivables on In thousands of GEL terminated leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 1 January 2016 3,561 2,331 5,892 Business Combination - 72 72 Provision for impairment during the year 1,105 1,748 2,853 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible - 2,370 2,370 Recovery of amounts previously written off - 213 213 Provision for impairment as of 31 December 2016 4,666 1,994 6,660 226 226 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 12.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED As at 31 December 2018, presentation of other financial assets gross carrying amount and credit loss allowance by IFRS 9 stages are as follows: Credit loss allowance Gross carrying amount Stage 3 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 lifetime ECL Stage 1 lifetime lifetime ECL 12-months lifetime CL for credit 12-months ECL for for credit In thousands of GEL ECL for SICR impaired Total ECL SICR impaired Total At 31 December 2017 115,149 174 33,099 148,422 9,099 1 8,920 18,020 IFRS 9 effect - - - - 796 31 192 1,019 At 1 January 2018 115,149 174 33,099 148,422 9,895 32 9,112 19,039 Transfers: - to lifetime from Stage 1 and Stage 3 to Stage 2 48 48 - - 3 3 - - - to credit-impaired from Stage 1 and Stage 2 to Stage 3 5,013 17 5,030 - 81 4 85 - - to 12-months ECL from Stage 2 and Stage 3 to Stage 1 210 86 124 - 57 20 37 - New originated or purchased 50,343 13 35,855 86,211 4,439 1 5,596 10,036 Changes to ECL measurement model assumptions - - - - 653 8 7,707 7,062 Derecognised during the period 26,787 44 1,243 28,074 510 6 1,342 1,858 Net repayments 6,070 14 130 6,214 - - - - Net Write-offs - - 16,772 16,772 - - 6,404 6,404 FX movements 999 - 8,413 9,412 - - 219219 At 31 December 2018 126,785 74 47,302 174,161 13,144 14 14,936 28,094 The table below illustrates the credit quality of other financial receivables: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Neither past due nor impairment - Prepayments for purchase of leasing assets 32,293 25,478 10,628 - Insurance and Reinsurance Receivables 21,451 15,742 2,249 - Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 14,390 26,703 24,801 - Trade receivable 8,292 13,862 2,232 - Receivables from sales of repossessed assets 43,671 6,481 5,700 - Rental income receivables 3,492 4,414 3,816 - Bank assurance income receivable 2,527 15,923 4,549 - Receivables on guarantees letters of credit 1,496 2,990 1,089 - Factored receivables - 6,182 900 - Other 17,848 14,120 9,496 Total neither past due nor impaired 145,460 131,895 65,460 Past due but not impaired - Receivables on guarantees - More than 90 days overdue - 16,773 17,126 Total past due but not impaired - 16,773 17,126 Receivables individually determined to be impaired gross - Receivables on terminated leases 12,651 8,961 7,832 - Less than 90 days overdue - - - - More than 90 days overdue 12,651 8,961 7,832 - Receivables on guarantees and letters of credit 35,373 1,220 - - Less than 90 days overdue 35,373 - - - More than 90 days overdue - 1,220 - - Receivables on repossessed assets disposed - 138 4,903 - Less than 90 days overdue - - - - More than 90 days overdue - 138 4,903 - Other receivables 2,128 5,177 5,966 - Less than 90 days overdue - - - - More than 90 days overdue 2,128 5,177 5,966 Total individually impaired gross 50,152 15,496 18,701 Less credit loss allowance 28,094 18,020 6,660 Total other financial assets 167,518 146,144 94,627 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 227 227 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED Credit rating of other financial assets neither past due nor impaired is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 A 1,917 13,003 2,508 A 4,949 4,116 14,086 BBB 6,263 6,265 845 BBB 35,663 - - BB 7 217 - BB- 94,479 7 - B 2,182 4,332 1,007 B - 726 2,645 Not rated - 103,229 44,369 Total 145,460 131,895 65,460 Impaired receivables include receivables on terminated leases and other receivables for which impairment provision was assessed individually.
A receivables overdue status is a primary factor for the Group to consider a receivable as impaired.
Receivables on terminated leases individually determined to be impaired are under-collateralised and their estimated fair value of collateral amounts to GEL 1,484 thousand 2017: GEL 1,206 thousand: 2016: GEL 2,039 thousand.
The remaining assets are not collateralized.
INVESTMENTS IN FINANCE LEASE As of 31 December 2018 investments in finance lease of GEL 203,802 thousand 2017: GEL 143,836 thousand: 2016: GEL 95,031 thousand are represented by leases of fixed assets excluding land and buildings.
In thousands of GEL Due in 1 year Due between 1 and 5 years Total Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2018 122,056 148,623 270,679 Unearned finance income 32,981 30,294 63,275 Credit loss allowance 1,789 1,813 3,602 Present value of lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2018 87,286 116,516 203,802 Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2017 86,186 105,595 191,781 Unearned finance income 23,720 22,727 46,447 Impairment loss provision 765 733 1,498 Present value of lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2017 61,701 82,135 143,836 Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2016 65,265 56,672 121,937 Unearned finance income 15,302 10,462 25,764 Impairment loss provision 678 464 1,142 Present value of lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2016 49,285 45,746 95,031 Finance lease payments receivable gross investment in the leases and their present values are as follows: For fair values refer to Note 42.
The table below illustrates the movements in the credit loss allowance of net investment in finance lease: 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Credit loss allowance at the beginning of the year 2,237 1,142 738 Credit loss allowance during the year 1,765 492 558 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 400 136 154 Credit loss allowance at the end of the year 3,602 1,498 1,142 228 228 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 13.
INVESTMENTS IN FINANCE LEASE CONTINUED The following table discloses the changes in the credit loss allowance and gross carrying amount for Investments in finance lease between the beginning and the end of the reporting period: Credit loss allowance Gross carrying amount Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 12-months lifetime ECL lifetime ECL for 12-months lifetime ECL lifetime ECL for In thousands of GEL ECL for SICR credit impaired Total ECL for SICR credit impaired Total At 31 December 2017 519 51 928 1,498 128,500 11,610 5,224 145,334 IFRS 9 effect 345 394 - 739 - - - - At 1 January 2018 864 445 928 2,237 128,500 11,610 5,224 145,334 Transfers: - to lifetime from Stage 1 and Stage 3 to Stage 2 9 9 - - 3,996 4,078 82 - - to credit-impaired from Stage 1 and Stage 2 to Stage 3 367 20 387 - 10,605 4,533 15,138 - - to 12-months ECL from Stage 2 and Stage 3 to Stage 1 357 357 - - 1,052 1,033 19 - New originated or purchased 1,350 108 255 1,714 120,992 7,208 5,165 133,365 Derecognised during the period 103 81 717 901 36,040 5,372 3,541 44,953 Partial repayment - - - - 24,985 1,468 4,887 31,340 Net repayments 47 101 498 552 - - - - Foreign currency effect - - - - 1,250 94 289 1,633 Other movements - - - - 2,003 277 1,085 3,365 At 31 December 2018 2,045 205 1,352 3,602 178,171 10,861 18,372 207,404 The Group applied the portfolio provisioning methodology prescribed by IFRS 9 for the periods beginning 1 January 2018 and IAS 39 for the periods before 1 January 2018 and created portfolio provisions for impairment losses that were incurred but have not been specifically identified with any individual lease by the reporting date.
The Group's policy is to classify each lease as neither past due nor impaired until specific objective evidence of impairment of the lease is identified.
The primary factors taken into account to consider whether or not a lease is impaired are the deterioration of the lessees financial position, its overdue status, and liquidity of the leased asset.
The impact of IFRS 9 was immaterial for terminated leases.
The Group normally structures its finance lease contracts so that the lessee makes a minimum prepayment of 20% of the equipment purchase price at the inception of the lease term.
The Group holds title to the leased assets during the lease term.
The title to the asset under the finance lease contract is transferred to the lessees at the end of the contracts terms, including full repayment of lease payments.
Generally the lease terms are up to five years.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
The main types of collateral obtained are: Leased assets inventory and equipment : Down payment: Real estate properties: Third party guarantees.
The financial effect of collateral is presented by disclosing the collateral values separately for i those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are equal to or exceed the assets carrying value over-collateralized assets and ii those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are less than the assets carrying value under-collateralized assets.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 229 229 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
INVESTMENTS IN FINANCE LEASE CONTINUED Per IFRS 9 impairment methodology, the Company classifies its portfolio into three stages: Stage 1 assets for which no significant increase of credit risk since initial recognition is identified: Stage 2 assets for which significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition is identified: Stage 3 credit-impaired exposures.
For stage 1 exposures the Company creates 12 months expected credit losses, whereas for stage 2 and stage 3 lifetime expected credit losses are created.
The key impact of IFRS 9 comes from Stage 2 classification and incorporation of forward looking information in allowance calculation.
For stage 1 no increase was identified considering that the Company has already been applying 12 months loss identification period LIP under IAS 39 methodology.
For the Stage 2 classification purposes the Company applies both quantitative and the qualitative criteria including, but not limited to: 30 days past due DPD overdue: Downgrade of the risk category of the borrower since initial recognition.
Under IFRS 9 methodology the Company updated its default definition criteria as well in order to make it consistent with the Companys internal guidelines.
Updated default definition includes criteria such as: i 90 DPD overdue ii distressed restructuring and iii other criteria indicating the borrowers unlikeness to repay the liabilities.
Another significant driver of IFRS 9 impact on allowance level is incorporation of the forward looking information FLI.
The Company incorporates forward looking information for both individual and collective assessment.
For FLI purposes the Company defines three scenarios, which are: Baseline most likely : Upside better than most likely : Downside worse than most likely.
The Company derives the baseline macro scenario and takes into account projections from various external sources the National Bank of Georgia, Ministry of Finance, IMF as well as other IFIs - to ensure the alignment to the consensus market expectations.
Refer to note 36 for the description of how the Group incorporates FLI in ECL calculations.
Upside and downside scenarios are defined based on the framework developed by the Banks macroeconomic unit.
The Company calculates expected impairment losses for each scenario.
In order to come up with the final expected credit loss figures the bank applies probability weighted average approach where probabilities of each scenario are used as weights.
As at 31 December 2018, credit quality of net investment in finance lease is analysed below: Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 lifetime ECL for credit In thousands of GEL 12-months ECL lifetime ECL for SICR impaired Total Investments in Finance Lease risk category - Very low 145,220 - - 145,220 - Low 32,951 2,350 - 35,301 - Moderate - 6,712 - 6,712 - High- 1,799 - 1,799 - Default- - 18,372 18,372 Gross carrying amount 178,171 10,861 18,372 207,404 Credit loss allowance 2,045 205 1,352 3,602 Carrying amount 176,126 10,656 17,020 203,802 230 230 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 13.
INVESTMENTS IN FINANCE LEASE CONTINUED Credit quality of net investment in finance lease as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 is analysed below: In thousands of GEL 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Neither past due nor impaired - Customers with more than two year experience 22,705 28,084 - New customers 90,668 45,404 Total neither past due nor impaired 113,373 73,488 Past due but not impaired - Less than 30 days overdue 19,047 15,357 - 31 to 90 days overdue 9,310 5,101 Total past due but not impaired 28,357 20,458 impaired leases - Not overdue - - - 1 to 30 days overdue - - - 31 days to 90 days overdue 343 - - From 91 to 180 days 2,204 1,079 - From 181 to 360 days 339 966 - More than 360 days 718 182 Total impaired gross 3,604 2,227 Total investment in finance lease 145,334 96,173 Credit loss allowance 1,498 1,142 Total net investment in finance lease 143,836 95,031 Total impaired leases include both collectively and individually impaired leases The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2018: Over-collateralised assets Under-collateralised assets Carrying value of Fair value of Carrying value of the Fair value of c In thousands of GEL the assets collateral assets ollateral Investment in leases 166,362 253,582 41,042 34,527 Total 166,362 253,582 41,042 34,527 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2017: Over-collateralised assets Under-collateralised assets Carrying value of Fair value of Carrying value of the Fair value of In thousands of GEL the assets collateral assets collateral Investment in leases 96,015 153,813 49,319 9,710 Total 96,015 153,813 49,319 9,710 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2016: Over-collateralised assets Under-collateralised assets Carrying value of Fair value of Carrying value of the Fair value of In thousands of GEL the assets collateral assets collateral Investment in leases 75,364 112,917 20,809 16,817 Total 75,364 112,917 20,809 16,817 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 231 231 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
OTHER ASSETS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Current other assets Inventories of repossessed collateral 120,663 116,809 90,873 Prepayments for other assets 29,027 9,721 28,660 Other inventories 4,198 4,194 3,973 Prepaid taxes other than income tax 856 5,788 3,326 Other debtor - - 35,497 Total current other assets 154,744 136,512 162,329 Non-current other assets Reinsurer's Assets 14,529 8,342 64 Assets repossessed from terminated leases 10,819 3,210 2,673 Assets purchased for leasing purposes 6,985 2,733 286 Prepayments for construction in progress 2,259 2,745 2,445 Prepaid insurance of leasing assets 2,174 1,884 937 Other 1,282 1,225 2,529 Total non-current other assets 38,048 20,139 8,934 Total other assets 192,792 156,651 171,263 Included in Other Debtors is receivable from one corporate client, in respect of settlement of previously written-off loan.
Inventories of repossessed collateral represent real estate assets and equipment acquired by the Group in settlement of impaired loans, other than those classified as investment property or premises and equipment.
The Group expects to dispose these assets in the foreseeable future.
Such assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at lower of cost and net realisable value.
In 2018, collateral repossessed for settlement of impaired loans amounted to GEL 30 million 2017: GEL 53 million: 2016: GEL 39 million.
With regards to certain inventories of repossessed collaterals, the Group has granted previous owners a right to repurchase the inventories at prices equal to or higher than the carrying value of the loan at the date of repossession.
This right is usually effective for a period of 6 to 18 months from the date of repossession, during this time the repossessed collateral may not be disposed to third parties.
As of 31 December 2018, the carrying value of the inventories of repossessed collateral subjected to the repurchase agreement was GEL 44,024 thousand 2017: GEL 11,170 thousand: 2016: GEL 20,342 thousand.
232 232 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 15.
PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Land, Premises and leasehold Office and Other Construct-ion in Total premises and Intangible In thousands of GEL improvements equipment progress equipment Assets Total Cost or valuation as of 1 January 2016 162,126 152,662 50,033 364,821 67,344 432,165 Accumulated depreciation amortisation Including accumulated impairment loss 29,545 87,509 - 117,054 23,000 140,054 Carrying amount as of 1 January 2016 132,581 65,153 50,033 247,767 44,344 292,111 Additions 5,555 19,369 6,206 31,130 18,904 50,034 Business combination 50,049 8,260 36 58,345 6,761 65,106 Transfers within premises and equipment 3,042 - 3,042 - - - Transfers to repossessed assets 298 - - 298 - 298 Disposals 2,571 3,836 69 6,476 4 6,480 Effect of translation to presentation currency - Cost 31 45 - 76 12 88 Impairment charge to profit and loss 574 675 - 1,249 2,043 3,292 Depreciation amortisation charge 3,269 16,895 - 20,164 6,981 27,145 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 2,439 2,555 - 4,994 - 4,994 Effect of translation to presentation currency - Accumulated depreciation 27 32 - 59 12 47 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2016 186,950 73,918 53,164 314,032 60,957 374,989 Cost or valuation as of 31 December 2016 217,299 175,636 53,164 446,099 90,950 537,049 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 30,349 101,718 - 132,067 29,993 162,060 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2016 186,950 73,918 53,164 314,032 60,957 374,989 Additions 5,684 26,440 48,663 80,787 34,877 115,664 Transfers within premises and equipment 11,326 - 11,326 - - - Transfer from investment property 1,114 - - 1,114 - 1,114 Disposals 2,324 9,638 - 11,962 88 12,050 Effect of translation to presentation currencyCost 25 54 - 79 11 90 Impairment charge to profit and loss 6 730 46 782 1,916 2,698 Depreciation amortisation charge 5,567 20,096 - 25,663 10,436 36,099 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 747 8,636 - 9,383 30 9,413 Effect of translation to presentation currency - Accumulated depreciation 25 50 - 75 57 18 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2017 197,924 78,534 90,455 366,913 83,492 450,405 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 233 233 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Land, Premises and leasehold Office and Other Construct-ion in Total premises and Intangible In thousands of GEL improvements equipment progress equipment Assets Total Cost or valuation as of 31 December 2017 233,118 191,762 90,455 515,335 123,834 639,169 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 35,194 113,228 - 148,422 40,342 188,764 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2017 197,924 78,534 90,455 366,913 83,492 450,405 Additions 8,804 46,619 8,538 63,961 42,525 106,486 Business combination 3,607 301 - 3,908 - 3,908 Transfers within premises and equipment 2,661 - 2,661 - - - Transfer from investment property - - 1,317 1,317 - 1,317 Transfer to investment property - - 32,628 32,628 - 32,628 Disposals 4,160 22,945 - 27,105 603 27,708 Revaluation 10,635 - 114 10,749 - 10,749 Effect of translation to presentation currency - Cost 23 23 - 46 11 57 Impairment charge to profit and loss 474 21 4 499 - 499 Depreciation amortisation charge 5,754 22,548 - 28,302 16,257 44,559 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 348 8,783 - 9,131 58 9,189 Effect of translation to presentation currency - Accumulated depreciation 22 35 - 13 6 7 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2018 213,592 88,781 65,131 367,504 109,220 476,724 Cost or valuation as of 31 December 2018 254,214 215,739 65,131 535,084 165,767 700,851 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 40,622 126,958 - 167,580 56,547 224,127 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2018 213,592 88,781 65,131 367,504 109,220 476,724 Office and other equipment include furniture and fixtures, computer and office equipment, motor vehicles as well as other equipment.
234 234 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 15.
PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Depreciation and amortisation charge presented on the face of the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income include depreciation and amortisation charge of premises and equipment, investment properties and intangible assets.
Construction in progress consists of construction and refurbishment of branch premises and the Banks new headquarters.
Upon completion, assets are to be transferred to premises.
The latest valuation date of premises to market value is 30 November 2018.
The valuation was carried out by an independent firm of valuators which holds a recognised and relevant professional qualification and who have recent experience in valuation of assets of similar location and category.
In the process of comparison, they have used three comparative analogues registered sale and or offer for sale, in which prices were applied adjustments based on the difference between subject assets and analogues.
Most of the assets have been estimated by using the market approach method due to the market situation, namely by existence of a sufficient number of registered sales and proposals by the date of valuation.
The management considers that the fair value has not changed significantly between 30 November 2018 and 31 December 2018.
Fair value of respective assets is disclosure below.
Fair value as of 30 Valuation Other key Unobservable Range of In thousands of GEL except November 2018 technique information inputsunobservable inputs for range of inputs valuation date weighted average Land 287 10,274 577 Sales comparison Price per square Office buildings 153,590 approach Buildings meter 670 5,257 2,715 Land 7 4,057 235 Sales comparison Price per square Buildings 337 12,911 2,982 Branches 98,737 approach meter Sensitivity of the input to fair value - increase decrease in the price per square metre would result in increase decrease in fair value.
As of 31 December 2018 the carrying amount of premises would have been GEL 166,707 thousand 2017: GEL 144,778 thousand: 2016: GEL 134,352 thousand had the assets been carried at cost less depreciation and impairment losses.
At 31 December 2018 the carrying amount of construction in progress would have been GEL 42,243 thousand 2017: GEL 67,033 thousand: 2016: GEL 30,394 thousand had the assets been carried at cost less impairment losses.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 235 235 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES In thousands of GEL Note 2018 2017 2016 Gross book value as of 1 January 83,871 99,347 60,648 Accumulated depreciation as of 1 January 4,639 3,732 3,048 Carrying amount as of 1 January 79,232 95,615 57,600 Transfer to premises and equipment 15 1,317 1,143 - Transfer from inventories of repossessed collateral 4,625 752 15,935 Transfer to repossessed collateral - 590 - Addition from foreclosure - 943 6,820 Disposals at cost 36,080 15,438 6,892 Elimination of depreciation on disposal 3,232 259 253 Depreciation charge 1,181 1,166 937 Acquisition through business combination 45 3,157 - 22,836 Transfer from Premises and equipment 32,628 - - Gross book value as of 31 December 86,884 83,871 99,347 Accumulated depreciation as of 31 December 2,588 4,639 3,732 Carrying amount as of 31 December 84,296 79,232 95,615 As of 31 December 2018, investment properties comprised of 73 lots 2017: 102 lots: 2016: 62 lots of land and 127 buildings 2017: 144 buildings: 2016: 141 buildings located in Tbilisi and other regions of Georgia with the fair value amounting to GEL 97,425 thousand 2017: GEL 85,012 thousand: 2016: GEL 123,852 thousand.
For disclosure purposes a fair valuation exercise was carried out for investment properties as of 31 December 2018.
The valuation in 2018 was carried out by external valuators in 2017 and 2016 by internal valuators who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualification and who have recent experience in valuation of assets of similar location and category.
Most of the assets have been estimated by using the market approach method due to the market situation, particularly based on a sufficient number of registered sales and proposals by the date of valuation.
Fair value as of 31 December 2018 Unobservable Range of unobser-vable In thousands of GEL except for range of inputs valuation date Valuation technique inputs inputs weighted average Sales comparison Price per Land 44,315 approach square meter 0.80 974 88 Sales comparison Price per Buildings 53,110 approach square meter 3.92 4,098 960 Where the Group is the lessor, the future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases, were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Not later than 1 year 185 177 463 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years - - 805 Total operating lease payments receivable 185 177 1,268 236 236 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 17.
GOODWILL Movements in goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries are: 2018 2017 2016 Carrying amount as of 1 January 28,658 28,658 2,726 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2,628 - 25,932 Carrying amount as of 31 December 31,286 28,658 28,658 Goodwill Impairment Test Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by Management and which are not larger than a segment as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 JSC Bank Republic 24,166 24,166 24,166 Bank Republic Retail 11,088 11,088 - Bank Republic Corporate 7,491 7,491 - Bank Republic MSME 4,791 4,791 - Bank Republic Other 796 796 - LLC Bonaco Note 45 2,567 - - JSC Swoop 61 - - CGU Micro 769 769 769 JSC United Financial Corporation 695 695 695 LLC TBC Kredit 1,262 1,262 1,262 JSC TBC Insurance 1,766 1,766 1,766 Total carrying amount of goodwill 31,286 28,658 28,658 Due to Bank Republic merger in 2017, carrying amount of goodwill was allocated across multiple CGUs of the Bank, that also equal to the operating and reporting segments.
The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the fiveyear period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
Assumptions used for value-in-use calculations to which the recoverable amount is most sensitive were: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 JSC Bank Republic Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 5.54% p. a.
21.72% p. a. CGU SME JSC Bank Constanta Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 5.54% p. a.
14.39% p. a. JSC United Financial Corporation Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 5.54% p. a.
19.18% p. a. LLC TBC Kredit Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 1.3% p. a.
28.10% p. a. JSC TBC Insurance Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 5.54% p. a.
19.50% p. a. Assumptions related to JSC Bank Republic are similar for all related CGUs.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 237 237 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
GOODWILL CONTINUED Goodwill Impairment Test Continued.
The management determined the budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its market expectations.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in the industry reports.
The discount rates reflect specific risks related to the relevant CGUs.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic Retail had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 84,111 thousand 2017: GEL 781,330 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 21.77% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic Corporate had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 850,072 thousand 2017: GEL 402,679 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 38.86% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic MSME had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 461,500 thousand 2017: GEL 246,759 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 35.83% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Micro JSC Bank Constanta had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2017: nil: 2016: nil.
Recoverable amount of CGU Micro JSC Bank Constanta CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 913,325thousand 2017: GEL 440,075 thousand: 2016: GEL 284,402 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 48.53% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of JSC United Financial Corporation had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2017: nil and nil: 2016: nil and nil.
Recoverable amount of JSC United Financial Corporation CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 13,458 thousand 2017: GEL 17,866 thousand: 2016: GEL 13,073 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 29.8% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of LLC TBC Kredit had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of goodwill 2017:nil: 2016: nil.
Recoverable amount of LLC TBC Kredit CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 277,830 thousand 2017: GEL 36,420 thousand: 2016: GEL 20,505 thousand.
The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate 132.34% of p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of JSC TBC Insurance had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2017: nil: 2016: nil.
Recoverable amount of JSC TBC Insurance CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 208,095 thousand 2017: GEL 51,549 thousand: 2016: 58,588 l. The CGUs carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 111.71% p. a.
238 238 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 18.
DUE TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Due to other banks Correspondent accounts and overnight placements 23,273 21,777 22,872 Deposits from banks 136,161 64,441 176,443 Short-term loans from banks- - 117,592 Total due to other banks 159,434 86,218 316,907 Other borrowed funds Borrowings from foreign banks and financial institutions 2,065,560 1,591,778 1,412,095 Borrowings from local banks and financial institutions 769,911 908,271 439,234 Borrowings from Ministry of Finance 1,520 2,914 4,203 Borrowings from other financial institutions 35,078 31,533 25,138 Total other borrowed funds 2,872,069 2,534,496 1,880,670 Total amounts due to credit institutions 3,031,503 2,620,714 2,197,577 As of 31 December 2018 for the purposes of maturity analysis of financial liabilities Note 36 the above-mentioned loans are included within the amounts for which repayment is expected within 3 months.
CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 State and public organisations - Current settlement accounts 667,553 810,783 240,743 - Term deposits 538,311 209,641 78,990 Other legal entities - Current settlement accounts 2,791,092 2,207,630 2,143,483 - Term deposits 251,215 210,498 243,582 Individuals - Current demand accounts 2,426,597 1,973,685 1,618,434 - Term deposits 2,677,374 2,404,580 2,129,717 Total customer accounts 9,352,142 7,816,817 6,454,949 State and public organisations include government owned profit orientated businesses.
CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CONTINUED As of 31 December 2018 the Group had 305 customers 2017: 261 customers: 2016: 222 customers with balances above GEL 3,000 thousand.
As of 31 December 2018 included in customer accounts are deposits of GEL 6,766 thousand and GEL 158,306 thousand 2017: GEL 11,040 thousand and GEL 120,406 thousand: 2016: GEL 13,355 thousand and GEL 119,146 thousand held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under letters of credit and guarantees issued, respectively.
As of 31 December 2018, deposits held as collateral for loans to customers amounted to GEL 270,787 thousand 2017: GEL 224,899 thousand: 2016: 342,365 thousand.
Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of each class of customer accounts.
DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE Carrying amount in GEL In thousands of GEL Currency as of 31 December 2018 Maturity Date Coupon rate Effective interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,927 22-Jul-19 7.3% 8.1% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,416 16-May-19 8.0% 8.7% Total debt securities in issue 13,343 Carrying amount in GEL In thousands of GEL Currency as of 31 December 2017 Maturity Date Coupon rate Effective interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,637 22-Jul-19 7.3% 8.1% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,224 16-May-19 8.0% 8.7% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,834 15-Aug-18 7.8% 8.6% Total debt securities in issue 20,695 Carrying amount in GEL In thousands of GEL Currency as of 31 December 2016 Maturity Date Coupon rate Effective interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,312 3-Sep-17 8.4% 9.2% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,237 15-Aug-18 7.8% 8.6% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,198 16-May-19 8.0% 8.7% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,761 22-Jul-19 7.3% 8.1% Total debt securities in issue 23,508 Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of debt securities in issue.
240 240 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 21.
PROVISION FOR PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES, CREDIT RELATED COMMITMENTS AND LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Movements in credit loss allowance for performance guarantees, credit related commitment and liabilities and charges are as follows: Performance Credit related In thousands of GEL guarantees commitments Other Total Carrying amount as of 1 January 2016 1,472 5,589 2,400 9,461 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 452 1,223 2,528 3,299 Assuming guarantees following asset purchase 909 - - 909 Additions through Business Combinations 706 1,237 414 2,357 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2016 2,635 8,049 5,342 16,026 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 579 190 332 721 Assuming guarantees following asset purchase - - 2,116 2,116 Additions through Business Combinations 11 - - 11 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2017 2,067 8,239 2,894 13,200 IFRS 9 transition effect 684 4,661 - 3,977 Carrying amount as of 1 January 2018 2,751 3,578 2,894 9,223 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 1,640 1,846 6,056 9,542 Effect of translation to presentation currency 2 - - 2 Carrying amount as of 31 December 2018 4,393 5,424 8,950 18,767 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees: Impairment allowance estimation methods differ for i letter of credits and guarantees and ii undrawn credit lines.
For letter of credits and guarantees allowance estimation purposes the Bank applies the staged approach and classifies them in stage 1, stage 2 or stage 3.
Significant stage 3 guarantees are assessed individually.
Non-significant stage 3 as well as all stage 1 and stage 2 guarantees and letter of credits are assessed collectively using exposure, marginal probability of conversion, loss given default and discount factor.
Amount of the expected allowance differs based on the classification of the facility in the respective stage.
For impairment allowance assessment purposes for undrawn exposures the Bank distinguishes between revocable and irrevocable loan commitments.
For revocable commitments the Bank does not create impairment allowance.
As for the irrevocable undisbursed exposures the Bank estimates utilization parameter which represents expected limit utilization percentage conditional on the default event in order to convert off-balance part of the exposure to on-balance.
Once the respective on balance exposure is estimated, the Bank applies the same impairment framework approach as the one used for the respective type of on balance exposures.
Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for Other provisions does not include gross change in total reserves for insurance claims in amount of GEL 29,786 thousand 2017: GEL 1,621 thousand: 2016: GEL 318 thousand that are included in net claims incurred.
Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for provision for impairment of credit related commitments include provision for insurance receivables in the amount of GEL 570 thousand 2017: GEL 542 thousand that are included in charges less releases recorded in profit or loss for Other provision.
For the purpose of ECL measurement other guarantees balances are included in mainly Stage 1 or Stage 2.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 241 241 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities comprise the following: In thousands of GEL Note 2018 2017 2016 Trade payables 24,270 31,497 16,612 Security deposits for finance lease 22,100 20,647 8,241 Debit or credit card payables 19,146 10,567 12,066 Insurance Contracts Liabilities 16,839 10,992 486 Derivative financial liabilities 41 2,119 575 1,298 Other accrued liabilities 14,240 17,475 12,295 Total other financial liabilities 98,714 91,753 50,998 Refer to Note 42 for disclosure of the fair value of other financial liabilities.
OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities comprise the following: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Accrued employee benefit costs 48,393 42,497 38,317 Taxes payable other than on income 19,477 14,180 16,723 Advances received 10,867 10,350 6,284 Unearned insurance premium 17,911 14,221 3,859 Other 7,689 3,192 1,556 Total other financial liabilities 104,337 84,440 66,739 All of the above liabilities are expected to be settled within twelve months after the year-end.
SUBORDINATED DEBT Outstanding amount in original Outstanding In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency amount in GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,509 20,100 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 29,213 78,191 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,161 6,161 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,737 6,737 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 15,312 40,983 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,666 20,520 European Fund for Southeast Europe 15-Mar-16 15-Mar-26 USD 7,665 20,516 Asian Developement Bank ADB 18-Oct-16 18-Oct-26 USD 50,617 135,482 Private lenders 30-Jun-17 30-Jun-23 USD 25,218 67,497 Subordinated Bond 17-Aug-18 30-Nov-22 USD 10,109 27,057 Global climat partnership fund 20-Nov-18 20-Nov-28 USD 25,111 67,211 Responsibility SICAV Lux Microfinance Leaders 30-Nov-18 30-Nov-28 USD 1,007 2,695 Responsibility SICAV Lux Financial inclusion fund 30-Nov-18 30-Nov-28 USD 3,121 8,354 Responsibility Micro and SME finance fund 30-Nov-18 30-Nov-28 USD 5,943 15,906 BlueOrchard Microfinance Fund 14-Dec-18 14-Dec-25 USD 14,916 39,923 BlueOrchard Microfinance Fund 14-Dec-18 14-Dec-28 USD 14,915 39,923 European Fund for Southeast Europe 21-Dec-18 21-Dec-28 USD 20,049 53,663 Total subordinated debt 650,919 As of 31 December 2018, subordinated debt comprised of: 242 242 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 24.
SUBORDINATED DEBT CONTINUED As of 31 December 2017, subordinated debt comprised of: Outstanding amount in original Outstanding In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency amount in GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 19-Feb-08 15-Jul-18 USD 10,467 27,134 Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,496 19,430 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 35,577 92,222 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,161 6,161 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,737 6,737 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 15,259 39,554 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,640 19,805 European Fund for Southeast Europe 15-Mar-16 15-Mar-26 USD 7,639 19,802 Asian Developement Bank ADB 18-Oct-16 18-Oct-26 USD 50,467 130,822 Private lenders 30-Jun-17 30-Jun-23 USD 24,114 62,508 LC Opportunity fund Thales 14-Jul-17 5-Dec-18 USD 1,008 2,613 Total subordinated debt 426,788 As of 31 December 2016, subordinated debt comprised of: Outstanding amount in original Outstanding In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency amount in GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 19-Feb-08 15-Jul-18 USD 10,446 27,649 Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,480 19,799 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 35,474 93,891 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,162 6,162 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,737 6,737 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 15,239 40,335 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,631 20,197 European Fund for Southeast Europe 15-Mar-16 15-Mar-26 USD 7,629 20,194 Asian Developement Bank ADB 18-Oct-16 18-Oct-26 USD 50,407 133,417 Total subordinated debt 368,381 The debt ranks after all other creditors in case of liquidation.
Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of subordinated debt.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 243 243 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
SHARE CAPITAL Number of In thousands of GEL except for number of shares ordinary shares Share capital As of 1 January 2016 49,529,463 19,811 Increase in share capital arising from share based payment 525,456 210 Conversion of shares following the Tender Offer 895,039 358 Share capital adjustment for new nominal value - 18,169 Shares issued 3,006,823 87 As of 31 December 2016 52,166,703 1,581 Shares issued 516,140 16 Scrip dividend issued 146,903 5 Share exchange 102,121 3 As of 31 December 2017 52,931,867 1,605 Shares issued 618,640 21 Scrip dividend issued 58,762 2 Share exchange 635,060 22 As of 31 December 2018 54,244,329 1,650 895,039 is the number of JSC TBC Bank shares that were not converted into the TBC Bank Group PLC shares Negative GEL 18,169 thousand is effect of nominal value adjustment whereby the nominal value of 49,159,880 TBC Bank Group PLC shares was changed from GEL 0.4 to one British Penny translated in GEL with the official exchange rate on share conversion date As of 31 December 2018 the total authorised number of ordinary shares was 54,244,329 shares 31 December 2017: 52,931,867 shares: 31 December 2016: 52,166,703 shares.
Each share has a nominal value of one British Penny 31 December 2015: GEL 0.4 per share.
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid and entitled to dividends.
On 21 May 2018, at the Annual General Meeting, TBC Bank Group PLCs shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 1.64 per share, based on the 2017 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 24 May 2018 of amount GEL 88,869 thousand and was paid on 22 June 2018 out of which scrip dividend shares amounted to 58,762 and were issued on 22th of June.
On 5 June 2017, at the annual general meeting TBC Bank Group PLCs shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 1.42 per share, based on the 2016 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 9 June 2017 of amount GEL 74,809 thousand and was paid on 14 July 2017 out of which scrip dividend shares amounted to 146,903 and were issued on 14th of July.
On 25 April 2016, at the annual general meeting JSC TBC Banks shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 1.09 per share, based on the 2015 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 3 May 2016 and on 11 May 2016 shareholders received the payment of the total GEL 54,560 thousand dividends.
On 24 April 2018 635,060 new ordinary shares of TBC Bank Group PLC were admitted to the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The Offer Shares were issued pursuant to the terms of a private offer to the holders of the ordinary shares of JSC TBC Bank who have tendered Bank shares pursuant to the Offer.
The holders of Bank shares are individuals that did not participate in the tender offer to holders made in 2016 or 2017 by TBC Bank Group PLC.
Holders of Bank shares received one Offer Share for each Bank Share tendered pursuant to the Offer.
On 23 June 2017 102,121 new ordinary shares of TBC Bank Group PLC were admitted to the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
The holders of Bank shares are individuals that did not participate in the tender offer to holders made in 2016 by TBC Bank Group PLC prior to TBC Bank Group PLC's admission to the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
On 4 August 2016, the Group completed the Tender Offer under which 49,159,880 of the Banks shares then outstanding or 98.21%, were converted into 49,159,880 shares of TBC Bank Group PLC.
244 244 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 25.
SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED Following the Admissions, TBCGs Directors undertook a reduction of capital in order to create distributable reserves for TBCG.
The original difference between the fair value of the Banks shares and the nominal value of TBCGs shares was credited to the merger reserve created in connection with the Tender Offer.
Each TBCG share had an original Tender Offer nominal value of GBP 5.00 and the minimum premium amount required by the Company Act 2006 of GEL 565,030 thousand was transferred to share premium.
Following the capital cut the nominal value of TBCG shares was reduced to GBP 0.01.
The capital cut created a new reserve on the statement of TBCGs financial position comprising of the reduction of the original nominal value from GBP 5.00 to GBP 0.01 per share amounting to GEL 745,637 thousand.
The reduction represents a legal and accounting adjustment and did not, in itself, have any direct impact on TBCG shares market value.
As a result of the reduction, the Groups total additional paid-in capital outstanding at the time became distributable to the shareholders and was fully reclassified to retained earnings.
These transactions were treated as a reorganisation of an existing entity that has not changed the substance of the reporting entity.
The consolidated financial statements of TBCG are presented using the values from the consolidated financial statements of JSC TBC Bank.
On the date that TBCG became the new parent of the Group, the statutory amounts of share capital and share premium of the Company have been recognised through an adjustment in the Statement of Changes in Equity under the heading Change of parent company to TBCG.
The resulting difference has been recognised as a component of equity under the heading Group reorganisation reserve.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS June 2013 arrangement: In June 2013, the Banks Supervisory Board approved a new management compensation scheme for the years 2013 2015 and authorised a maximum of 4,150 new shares to be issued in accordance with the scheme.
The authorized number of new shares has increased to 1,037,500 in order to reflect the share split 250-for-1 approved by the shareholders on 4 March 2014.
According to the scheme, each year, subject to predefined performance conditions a certain number of shares were awarded to the top management and some of the middle managers of the Group.
The performance evaluation is divided into i team goals and ii individual performance indicators.
The total number of the shares to be awarded legally transferred depends on meeting the team goals and the book value per share according to the audited IFRS consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year preceding the award date.
The team goals primarily focus on meeting the target for growth, profitability and portfolio quality metrics set by the Supervisory Board as well as compliance with certain regulatory requirements.
The total number of shares in the bonus pool depends on achieving the team goals.
Individual performance indicators are defined on an individual basis and are used to calculate the number of shares to be awarded to each employee out of the total bonus pool.
Once awarded, these shares carry service conditions and, before those conditions are met, are eligible to dividends.
However, they do not carry voting rights and cannot be sold or transferred to third parties.
Service conditions foresee continuous employment until the gradual transfer of the full title to the scheme participants is complete.
Shares for each of the 2013, 2014 and 2015 tranche gradually ran over on the second, third, and fourth year following the performance appraisal.
Eighty per cent of the shares were vested in the fourth year after being awarded.
Under this compensation system the total vesting period extends to June 2019.
Under the new management compensation scheme, both shareholders and Supervisory Board hold put options on the shares to be awarded.
In addition, they both hold put options on all bonus shares awarded under the previous share-based payment arrangements.
All the put-options became null and void upon the listing on the LSE in June 2014.
At no point of the operation of the share-based payment scheme did the management expect the put-options to be exercised.
Consequently, the scheme was accounted for as equity-settled scheme and no obligation was recognized for the put-options.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 245 245 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED In 2013 the Group considered 20 June as the grant date.
Based on the managements expectation of performance and service conditions, 732,000 shares have been granted and will be gradually awarded to the members of the described scheme.
An external evaluator assessed the fair value per share at the grant date at GEL 13.93 adjusted for the effect of 250-for-1 share split Income and market approaches were applied for the evaluation.
The market approach involved an estimate of the market capitalization to book value of equity multiple and deal price to book value of equity multiple for comparable banks.
When selecting comparable banks, the appraiser chose lenders operating in the Black Sea region and Central and Eastern Europe with a portfolio mix and growth priorities similar to TBC Bank.
The income approach involved discounting free cash flows to equity estimated over a 10-year horizon.
When developing the projections, the following major assumptions were made: Over the 2013-2023 periods, the compound annual growth rate was assumed at 15.2% for loans and at 15.1% for customer accounts: The spread on the Banks customer business was assumed to gradually decline from an estimated 10.2% in 2013 to stabilize at 5.8% by 2021: Over 2013-2023 period, non-interest income was forecast to average 1.8% of customer volume i. e. gross loans and deposits : Year-on-year growth in various components of employees compensation was assumed at 37.6%-56.0% in 2014, 2.4%-9.8% in 2015 and was then assumed to gradually decline to 2.1%-3.6% in 2023.
Year-on-year growth in administrative expenses was assumed at 38.3% in 2014, 10.4% in 2015 and to gradually decline to 3.3% in 2023: The Banks terminal value was estimated using the Gordon growth model, applying US long-term inflation forecast 2.1% as the Banks terminal cash flows growth rate: Banks cost of equity was estimated at 15.10%.
The final valuation was based on the income approach and the market one was used to check the results obtained by the former.
The calculated value of Banks equity was then divided by the number of ordinary shares issued as of date and further reduced with the discount for lack of control.
June 2015 arrangement: In June 2015, the Banks Supervisory Board approved new management compensation scheme for the top and middle management and it accordingly authorised the issue of a maximum 3,115,890 new shares.
The new system will be enforced from 2015 through 2018, replacing the system introduced in June 2013 -- the performance evaluation as well as the respective compensation for 2015 year-end results will be paid under the new system.
According to the scheme, each year, subject to predefined performance conditions, a certain number of shares will be awarded to the Groups top managers and most of the middle ones.
The performance features key performance indicators KPIs divided into i corporate and ii individual.
The corporate KPIs are mainly related to achieving profitability, efficiency, and portfolio quality metrics set by the Supervisory Board as well as non-financial indicators with regards to customers experience and employees engagement.
The individual performance indicators are set on an individual basis and are used to calculate the number of shares to be awarded to each employee.
According to the scheme, members of top management will also receive the fixed number of shares.
Once awarded, all shares carry service conditions and, before those conditions are met, are eligible to dividends: however they do not carry voting rights and cannot be sold or transferred to third parties.
Shares for each of the 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 tranche gradually ran over on the second, third and fourth year following the performance appraisal.
Eighty percent of the shares were vested in the fourth year after being awarded.
Under this compensation system the total vesting period extends to March 2022.
In 2015 the Group considered 17 June as the grant date.
Based on the managements estimate of reached targets, as of 31 December 2015 1,908,960 shares were granted.
The shares will be gradually awarded to the members as per the described scheme.
At the grant date the fair value amounted to GEL 24.64 per share, as quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Following the listing on the Premium segment of the London Stock Exchange, the share-based payment scheme was updated, and TBC Bank Group PLC distributes its shares to the schemes participants.
The shares value is recharged to the JSC TBC Bank.
As a result, the accounting of the scheme did not change in the consolidated financial statements.
246 246 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 26.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The Bank also pays personal income tax on behalf of equity settled scheme beneficiaries, which is accounted as cash settled part.
Tabular information on both of the schemes is given below: In thousands of GEL except for number of shares 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Number of unvested shares at the beginning of the period 2,284,773 2,622,707 2,756,605 Change in estimate of number of shares expected to vest based on performance conditions 166,377 13,100 11,904 Forfeited during the period - - 35,146 Number of shares vested 330,021 324,834 86,848 Number of unvested shares at the end of the period 2,121,129 2,284,773 2,622,707 Value at grant date per share GEL old remuneration system 13.93 13.93 13.93 Value at grant date per share GEL new remuneration system 24.64 24.64 24.64 Expense on equity-settled part GEL thousand 11,668 10,543 12,599 Decrease in equity due to utilisation of cash compensation alternative GEL thousand - - 817 Expense on cash-settled part GEL thousand 8,424 5,119 10,271 Expense recognised as staff cost during the period GEL thousand 20,092 15,662 22,053 Liability in respect of the cash-settled part of the award amounted to GEL 11,001 thousand as of 31 December 2018 2017: GEL 12,675 thousand: 2016: GEL 13,725 thousand.
Staff costs related to equity settled part of the share based payment schemes are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period of each relevant tranche and corresponding entry is credited to share based payment reserve in equity.
On 31 December 2018 based on level of achievement of key performance indicators the management has reassessed the number of shares that will have to be issued to the participants of the share based payment system and increased estimated number of shares to vest by 166,377 31 December 2017: decreased by 13,100 shares: 31 December 2016: decreased by 11,904 shares.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the owners of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In thousands of GEL except for number of shares 2018 2017 2016 Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Bank excluding the profit attributable to the shares encumbered under the share based payment scheme 435,080 354,410 298,130 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 53,906,472 52,685,702 49,592,658 Basic earnings per ordinary share attributable to the owners of the Bank expressed in GEL per share 8.1 6.7 6.0 Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year.
Ordinary shares with dilutive potential represent those shares that were granted to the participants of the share based payments scheme and are not yet distributed.
In thousands of GEL except for number of shares 2018 2017 2016 Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Bank excluding the profit attributable to the shares encumbered under the share based payment scheme 435,080 354,410 299,037 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares during the period 54,415,642 53,480,632 50,946,636 Diluted earnings per ordinary share attributable to the owners of the Bank expressed in GEL per share 8.0 6.6 5.9 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 247 247 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
SEGMENT ANALYSIS The Management Board the Board is the chief operating decision maker and it reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess the performance and to allocate resources.
In 2018 the Group has reassessed its definition of segments as disclosed in this note.
GEL 236 million was transferred from Retail to MSME segment and GEL 66 million was transferred from MSME to Corporate segment.
Comparative information as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 has not been updated due to impracticability.
The operating segments according to the new definition are now determined as follows: Corporate legal entity group of affiliated entities with an annual revenue exceeding GEL 12.0 million or who have been granted facilities with more than GEL 5.0 million.
Some other business customers may also be assigned to the corporate segment or transferred to MSME on a discretionary basis: Retail non-business individual customers or individual business customers who have been granted mortgage loans: all individual customers are included in retail deposits: MSME Business customers who are not included in either corporate and retail segments: or legal entities who have been granted a Pawn shop loan: or individual customers of the newly-launched fully-digital bank, Space: Corporate centre and other operations - comprises of the Treasury, other support and back office functions, and nonbanking subsidiaries of the Group.
The operating segments during the year 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Corporate all business customers with an annual revenue of GEL 8.0 million or more or who have been granted a loan in an amount equivalent to USD 1.5 million or more.
Some other business customers may also be assigned to the Corporate segment on a discretionary basis: Micro, small and medium enterprises all business customers who are not included in Corporate segment: Some other customers may also be assigned to the MSME segment on a discretionary basis: Retail all individual customers not included in the other categories: Corporate Centre and Other Operations comprises of the Treasury, other support and back office functions, and nonbanking subsidiaries of the Group.
The Board of Directors assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted profit before income tax.
The reportable segments are the same as the operating segments.
No revenue from transactions with a single external customer or counterparty amounted to 10% or more of the Groups total revenue in 2018, 2017 or 2016.
The vast majority of the entitys revenues are attributable to Georgia.
A geographic analysis of origination of the Groups assets and liabilities is given in Note 36.
Allocation is performed based on drivers identified for each type of cost if possible.
If there is no identifiable driver for any type of expense overhead cost, those expenses are allocated between segments based on the same logic as applied for the most related expenses to it e. g. other operating expenses would follow the pattern of closest category of operating expenses.
A summary of the Groups reportable segments for the years ended 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016 is provided below: 248 248 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 28.
SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED Micro, small and Corporate centre and In thousands of GEL Corporate Retail medium enterprises other operations Total 31 December 2018 - Interest income 264,559 609,989 255,833 153,854 1,284,235 - interest expense 133,302 123,729 9,710 239,472 506,213 - Inter-segment interest income expense 35,531 78,453 83,475 126,397 - - Net interest income 166,788 407,807 162,648 40,779 778,022 - Fee and commission income 40,667 170,082 22,498 2,454 235,701 - Fee and commission expense 6,661 64,270 6,861 379 78,171 - Net Fee and commission income 34,006 105,812 15,637 2,075 157,530 - Insurance Profit - - - 12,275 12,275 - Net gains from trading in foreign currencies 44,629 28,811 22,002 3,764 91,678 - Net losses from foreign exchange translation - - - 15,196 15,196 - Net losses from derivative financial instruments - 223 - 396 173 - Gains less losses from disposal of investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income - - - 2 2 - Other operating income 19,691 8,658 748 2,341 31,438 - Share of profit of associates - - - 1,154 1,154 - Other operating non-interest income 64,320 37,246 22,750 27,600 151,916 - Credit loss allowance for loans to customers 9,826 118,043 15,854 - 143,723 - Credit loss allowance for performance guarantees and credit related commitments 2,827 412 247 570 4,056 - Credit loss allowance for investments in finance lease - - - 1,765 1,765 - Credit loss allowance for other financial assets 8,634 3,959 2 4,014 16,609 - Credit loss allowance for financial assets measured at fair value through OCI 95 - - 9 86 - Profit before administrative and other expenses and income taxes 243,732 428,451 184,932 64,114 921,229 - Staff costs 30,266 128,957 43,385 17,746 220,354 - Depreciation and amortisation 2,226 36,745 4,980 1,789 45,740 - Provision for liabilities and charges - - - 4,000 4,000 - Administrative and other operating expenses 12,616 90,329 21,184 16,806 140,935 - Operating expenses 45,108 256,031 69,549 40,341 411,029 - Profit loss before tax 198,624 172,420 115,383 23,773 510,200 - Income tax expense 29,907 22,898 17,250 2,710 72,765 - Profit for the year 168,717 149,522 98,133 21,063 437,435 Total gross loans and advances to customers reported 3,177,289 4,698,699 2,496,594 - 10,372,582 Total customer accounts reported 3,230,653 5,103,971 1,017,518 - 9,352,142 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees 1,578,184 246,639 246,824 - 2,071,647 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 249 249 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
SEGMENT ANALYSIS CONTINUED Micro, small and Corporate centre and In thousands of GEL Corporate Retail medium enterprises other operations Total 31 December 2018 - Fee and commission income 40,667 170,082 22,498 2,454 235,701 - Other operating income 19,691 8,658 748 2,341 31,438 Total 60,358 178,740 23,246 4,795 267,139 Timing of revenue recognition: - At point in time 56,397 160,555 22,950 4,790 244,692 - Over time 3,961 18,185 296 5 22,447 Reportable segments assets were reconciled to total assets as follows: In thousands of GEL 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Total segment assets gross loans and advances to customers 10,372,582 8,553,217 7,358,725 Credit loss allowance provision for loan impairment for comparatives 334,130 227,864 225,023 Cash and cash equivalents 1,166,911 1,431,477 945,180 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 1,422,809 1,033,818 990,642 Due from other banks 47,316 39,643 24,725 Investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 1,005,239 - - Investment securities available for sale comparatives only - 657,938 430,703 Bonds carried at amortised cost 654,203 449,538 372,956 Current income tax prepayment 2,116 19,084 7,430 Deferred income tax asset 2,097 2,855 3,511 Other financial assets 167,518 146,144 94,627 Investments in finance leases 203,802 143,836 95,031 Other assets 192,792 156,651 171,263 Premises and equipment 367,504 366,913 314,032 Intangible assets 109,220 83,492 60,957 Investment properties 84,296 79,232 95,615 Goodwill 31,286 28,658 28,658 Investments in Subsidiaries and Associates 2,432 1,278 - Total assets per statement of financial position 15,497,993 12,965,910 10,769,032 Reportable segments liabilities are reconciled to total liabilities as follows: In thousands of GEL 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Total segment liabilities customer accounts 9,352,142 7,816,817 6,454,949 Due to credit institutions 3,031,503 2,620,714 2,197,577 Debt securities in issue 13,343 20,695 23,508 Current income tax liability 63 447 2,577 Deferred income tax liability 22,237 602 5,646 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18,767 13,200 16,026 Other financial liabilities 98,714 91,753 50,998 Other liabilities 104,337 84,440 66,739 Subordinated debt 650,919 426,788 368,381 Total liabilities per statement of financial position 13,292,025 11,075,456 9,186,401 252 252 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 29.
INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Interest income calculated using effective interest method Loans and advances to customers 1,123,972 919,796 688,724 Bonds carried at amortised cost 40,625 32,328 30,714 Investment securities available for sale - 43,735 25,707 Investment securities measured at fair value through OCI 57,057 - - Due from other banks 23,744 14,807 4,550 Other interest income Investments in leases 38,837 23,273 16,566 Other - - 165 Total interest income 1,284,235 1,033,939 766,426 Interest expense Customer accounts 266,741 233,884 154,840 Due to credit institutions 196,498 157,122 85,030 Subordinated debt 41,571 36,975 34,325 Debt securities in issue 1,403 1,943 1,778 Total interest expense 506,213 429,924 275,973 Net interest income 778,022 604,015 490,453 In the year ended 31 December 2018 the interest accrued on impaired loans amounted to GEL 41,373 thousand 2017: 16,332 thousand: 2016: 23,825 thousand.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME AND EXPENSE In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Fee and commission income Fee and commission income in respect of financial instruments not at fair value through profit or loss: - Card operations 106,067 82,525 61,115 - Settlement transactions 70,720 59,739 43,434 - Guarantees issued 19,815 15,121 11,699 - Cash transactions 17,147 17,424 13,013 - Issuance of letters of credit 6,463 5,735 6,215 - Foreign exchange operations 2,183 1,339 1,277 - Other 13,306 12,061 6,047 Total fee and commission income 235,701 193,944 142,800 Fee and commission expense Fee and commission expense in respect of financial instruments not at fair value through profit or loss: - Card operations 55,893 46,360 34,906 - Settlement transactions 8,669 7,421 5,795 - Cash transactions 5,180 4,393 2,633 - Guarantees and LOC received 2,863 2,873 2,420 - Self-service and POS terminal transactions 34 6,436 4,692 - Other 5,532 500 2,086 Total fee and commission expense 78,171 67,983 52,532 Net fee and commission income 157,530 125,961 90,268 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 253 253 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Gain from sale of investment properties 9,781 4,353 2,623 Revenues from operational leasing 6,544 6,544 5,772 Warrant option 2,677 - - Gain from sale of inventories of repossessed collateral 2,577 2,383 2,382 Revenues from sale of cash-in terminals 1,715 1,093 1,100 Revenues from non-credit related fines 683 1,408 658 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment 352 1,017 208 Gain from sale of receivables 225 4,090 58 Reimbursement of taxes - 2,486 349 Gain from marketing promotional services - 2,077 - Recovery from repayment of purchased impaired loans - - 4,995 Administrative fee income from international financial institutions - - 644 Other 6,884 6,346 4,447 Total other operating income 31,438 31,797 23,236 Revenue from operational leasing is wholly attributable to investment properties.
The carrying value of the inventories of repossessed collateral disposed in the year ended 31 December 2018 was GEL 33,295 thousand 2017: GEL 24,284 thousand: 2016: GEL 26,972 thousand.
STAFF COSTS In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Salaries and bonuses 190,304 182,784 146,840 Share based compensation 20,092 15,662 22,053 Other compensation cost 9,958 4,654 3,328 Salaries and other employee benefits 220,354 203,100 172,221 In 2018 the monthly average number of persons employed by the Group was 7,170 people 2017: 6,993: 2016: 5,537.
Breakdown of monthly average number of employees by categories is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Headquarters 2,837 2,788 2,243 Branches 3,824 3,773 2,902 Other administrative staff 509 432 392 Under monthly average number of employees in headquarters and branches employees in JSC TBC Bank, JSC Bank Republic, JSC TBC Insurance, Bank Constanta JSC and LLC TBC Kredits are considered.
Employees from other subsidiaries are considered under other administrative staff.
In 2018 monthly average number of employees in TBC PLC was 10 individuals 2017: 10: 2016: 9.
254 254 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 33.
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Advertising and marketing services 29,575 18,430 13,796 Rent 24,389 23,132 18,294 Professional services 13,951 14,332 29,926 Intangible asset enhancement 11,366 10,304 7,446 Taxes other than on income 6,757 5,670 4,699 Utility services 6,491 6,067 5,108 Premises and equipment maintenance 6,098 5,413 3,889 Communications and supply 5,173 4,063 4,183 Stationery and other office expenses 4,841 4,936 3,448 Insurance 4,589 2,461 2,687 Business trip expenses 2,273 2,021 1,880 Transportation and vehicle maintenance 2,043 1,637 1,386 Security services 2,040 1,965 1,883 Personnel training and recruitment 1,880 1,444 1,272 Charity 1,074 1,045 884 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment 860 492 423 Loss on disposal of inventories 137 1,239 1,690 Impairment of intangible assets 1 1,916 2,043 Reversal of previously written-down current assets to fair value less costs to sell 1,026 538 4,424 Other 18,423 15,501 8,962 Total administrative and other operating expenses 140,935 121,530 109,475 Included in professional services, in the year ended 31 December 2016, are transaction costs related to the acquisition of Bank Republic, comprising GEL 8,000 thousands.
Auditors remuneration is included within professional services expenses above and comprises: In thousands of GEL Audit Audit Related Other Services Total 2018 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 2,310 - - 2,310 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements - 366 - 366 Other assurance services - - 114 114 Total auditors remuneration 2,310 366 114 2,790 2017 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 1,700 - - 1,700 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements - 251 - 251 Other assurance services - - 231 231 Total auditors remuneration 1,700 251 231 2,182 2016 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 1,588 - - 1,588 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements - 360 - 360 Other assurance services - 5 5,432 5,437 Total auditors remuneration 1,588 365 5,432 7,385 Included in Other assurance services as of 31 December 2016, GEL 3,797 thousands is attributable to reporting accountant fees related to listing of TBCG shared on LSE.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 255 255 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
INCOME TAXES Income tax expenses comprises of the following: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Current tax charge 52,914 39,313 36,601 Deferred tax credit charge 19,851 4,563 19,180 Income tax expense for the year 72,765 34,750 17,421 The income tax rate applicable to the majority of the Groups income was 15% 2017: 15%: 2016: 15%.
The income tax rate applicable to the majority of subsidiaries income ranged from 15% to 20% 2017: 15% - 20%: 2016: 15% - 20%.
Reconciliation between the expected and the actual taxation charge is provided below.
In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Profit before tax 510,200 394,678 315,679 Theoretical tax charge at statutory rate 2018: 15%-20%: 2017: 15%-20%: 2016: 15%-20% 76,500 59,119 46,703 Tax effect of items which are not deductible or assessable for taxation purposes: - Income which is exempt from taxation 16,869 12,958 9,638 - Non-deductible expenses 746 117 3,706 - Effect of change in tax legislation 13,833 11,794 24,204 - Other differences 47 500 854 Income tax expense for the year 72,765 34,750 17,421 Differences between IFRS as adopted by the EU and statutory taxation regulations in Georgia and Azerbaijan give rise to temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases.
The tax effect of the movements in these temporary differences is detailed below and is recorded at the rate of 15% 2017: 15%: 2016: 15% for Georgia and 20% for Azerbaijan and United Kingdom 2017: 20%: 2016: 20%.
On 13 May 2016 the Government of Georgia enacted the changes in the Tax Code of Georgia effective from 1 January 2019, for commercial banks, credit unions, insurance organizations, microfinance organizations and pawnshops and from 1 January 2017 for other entities.
However, during 2018 Georgian Government changed transition date to 1 January 2023.
The new code impacts the recognition and measurement principles of the Groups income tax and it also affects the Groups deferred income tax assets liabilities.
Companies do not have to pay income tax on their profit before tax earned since 1 January 2017 or 1 January 2023 for commercial banks, credit unions, insurance organizations, microfinance organizations and pawnshops until that profit is distributed in a form of dividend or other forms of profit distributions.
Once dividend is paid, 15% income tax is payable at the moment of the dividend payment, regardless of whether in monetary or non-monetary form, to the foreign non-resident legal entities and foreign and domestic individuals.
The dividends paid out to the resident legal entities are tax exempted.
Apart from dividends distribution, the tax is still payable on expenses or other payments incurred not related to economic activities, free delivery of goods services and or transfer of funds and representation costs that exceed the maximum amount determined by the Income Tax Code of Georgia, in the same month they are incurred.
256 256 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 34.
INCOME TAXES CONTINUED As of 31 December 2018, deferred tax assets liabilities are re-measured to the amounts that are estimated to be utilized in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2022.
Charged Charged directly to 1 January credited to profit other comprehensive 31 December In thousands of GEL 2018 or loss income 2018 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Premises and equipment 4,298 16,460 2,444 23,202 Loan to customers 2,401 417 - 2,866 Other financial assets 2,266 301 - 2,421 Other assets 29 29 - - Investment property 342 342 - - Due to credit institutions 816 2,825 - 3,641 Subordinated debt 23 47 - 70 Other financial liabilities 72 31 - 41 Other liabilities 1,651 787 - 864 Share based payment 1,486 823 - 663 Tax loss carried forward 29 29 - - Net deferred tax asset liability 2,253 19,851 2,444 20,140 Recognised deferred tax asset 2,855 659 - 2,097 Recognised deferred tax liability 602 19,192 2,444 22,237 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,253 19,851 2,444 20,140 Charged Charged directly to 1 January credited to profit other comprehensive 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 or loss income 2017 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Premises and equipment 5,323 648 377 4,298 Loan impairment provision 92 2,400 - 2,401 Fair valuation of investment securities available for sale 165 483 648 - Other financial assets 2,368 104 - 2,266 Other assets 39 10 - 29 Investment in leases - - - - Investment property 982 640 - 342 Due to credit institutions 1,295 479 - 816 Subordinated debt 85 62 - 23 Other financial liabilities 197 269 - 72 Other liabilities 2,226 575 - 1,651 Share based payment 676 810 - 1,486 Tax loss carried forward 29 - - 29 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,135 4,563 271 2,253 Recognised deferred tax asset 3,511 753 - 2,855 Recognised deferred tax liability 5,646 5,316 271 602 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,135 4,563 271 2,253 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 257 257 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
INCOME TAXES CONTINUED Charged Charged directly to Changes due 1 January credited to profit other comprehensive to the business 31 December In thousands of GEL 2016 or loss income combination 2016 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Premises and equipment 25,802 11,112 11,011 1,644 5,323 Loan impairment provision 9,167 11,729 - 2,574 92 Fair valuation of investment securities available for sale 1,595 461 1,565 267 165 Other financial assets 5,952 3,830 - 246 2,368 Other assets 6,407 5,734 - 634 39 Investment in leases 556 556 - - - Investment property 4,247 4,275 - 1,010 982 Due to credit institutions 475 820 - - 1,295 Subordinated debt 327 242 - - 85 Other financial liabilities 60 137 - - 197 Other liabilities 1,311 1,146 - 232 2,226 Share based payment 741 65 - - 676 Tax loss carried forward - 29 - - 29 Net deferred tax asset liability 27,698 19,180 12,576 6,115 2,135 Recognised deferred tax asset 1,546 1,719 - 246 3,511 Recognised deferred tax liability 29,244 17,461 12,576 6,361 5,646 Net deferred tax asset liability 27,698 19,180 12,576 6,115 2,135 In the context of the Groups current structure and Georgian tax legislation, tax losses and current tax assets of different group companies may not be offset against current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other group companies and, accordingly, taxes may accrue even where there is a consolidated tax loss.
Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
NET DEBT RECONCILIATION The table below sets out an analysis of our debt and the movements in our debt for each of the periods presented.
The debt items are those that are reported as financing in the statement of cash flows.
Liabilities from financing activities Other borrowed Debt Securities In thousands of GEL funds in Issue Subordinated debt Total Net debt at 1 January 2017 1,880,670 23,508 368,381 2,272,559 Cash flows 519,289 3,251 22,837 538,875 Foreign exchange adjustments 13,266 1,505 765 15,536 Other non-cash movements 147,803 1,943 36,335 186,081 Net debt at 31 December 2017 2,534,496 20,695 426,788 2,981,979 Cash flows 79,390 9,308 171,781 241,863 Foreign exchange adjustments 70,883 554 9,958 81,395 Other non-cash movements 187,300 1,402 42,392 231,094 Net debt at 31 December 2018 2,872,069 13,343 650,919 3,536,331 258 258 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT TBC Bank Groups strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board and the Groups Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee on shaping the risk strategy and managing credit, financial and non-financial risks.
All components necessary for comprehensive risk governance are embedded into risk organization structure: enterprise risk management: credit, financial and non-financial risks management: risk reporting & supporting IT infrastructure: cross-risk analytical tools and techniques such as capital adequacy management and stress-testing.
Comprehensive, transparent and prudent risk governance facilitates understanding and trust from multiple stakeholders, ensures sustainability and resiliency of the business model and positioning of risk management as Groups competitive advantage and strategic enabler.
The TBC Bank Groups governance structure ensures adequate oversight and accountabilities as well as clear segregation of duties.
The Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee is responsible for taking all the day-to-day decisions relating to the Group apart from those that are reserved for the Board.
Namely, the committee carries out following duties: 1 Review and assessment of the Groups risk management strategy, risk appetite and tolerance, risk management system and risk policies: 2 Review and monitoring of the processes for compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice: 3 monitoring of the remediation of internal control deficiencies identified by internal and external auditors around compliance, ethics and risk management functions: 4 Annual self-assessment of the committees performance and reporting of the results to the Board: 5 Review of the key risk management framework and other policy documents and make recommendations to the Board for their approval.
On the Bank level, risk management is the duty of the Supervisory Board, which has the overall responsibility to set the tone at the top and monitor compliance with established objectives.
At the same time, Management Board governs and directs Groups daily activities.
Both the Supervisory Board and the management Board have established dedicated risk committees.
Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee of Supervisory Board approves Banks Risk Appetite, supervises risk profile and risk governance practice within the Bank while Audit Committee is responsible for implementation of key accounting policies and facilitation of activities of internal and external auditors.
Management Board Risk Committee is established to guide group-wide risk management activities and monitor major risk trends to make sure risk profile complies with the established Risk Appetite of the Group.
Operational Risk Committee makes decisions related to operational risk governance while Asset-Liability Management Committee ALCO is responsible for implementation of ALM policies.
The Board, the Supervisory Board and Senior Management govern risk objectives through Risk Appetite Statement RAS which sets desired risk profile and respective risk limits for different economic environments.
Risk Appetite RA establishes monitoring and reporting responsibilities as well as escalation paths for different trigger events and limit breaches which as well prompt risk teams to establish and implement agreed mitigation actions.
In order to effectively implement Risk Appetite in the Groups day-to-day operations, the RA metrics are cascaded into more granular business unit level limits.
That way risk allocation is established across different segments and activities.
The Board level oversight coupled with the permanent involvement of the Senior Management in TBC Group risk management ensures the clarity regarding risk objectives, intense monitoring of risk profile against risk appetite, prompt escalation of risk-related concerns and establishment of remediation actions.
The daily management of individual risks is based on the principle of the three lines of defense.
While business lines are primary risk owners, risk teams assume the function of the second line defense.
This role is performed through sanctioning transactions as well as tools and techniques for risk identification, analysis, measurement, monitoring and reporting.
The committees are established at operational levels in charge of making transaction-level decisions that comprise of component of clear and sophisticated delegations of the authority framework based on four-eye principle.
All new products projects go through the risk teams to assure risks are analyzed comprehensively.
Such control arrangements guarantee that the Bank takes informed risk-taking decisions that are adequately priced, avoiding taking risks that are beyond the Groups established threshold.
Within the Risk Organization the below teams manage the credit, liquidity, market, operational and other non-financial risks: Enterprise Risk Management ERM : Credit Risk Management: Underwriting Credit sanctioning : Restructuring and Collections: Financial Risk Management: Operational Risk Management.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 259 259 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The strong and independent structure enables fulfillment of all the required risk management functions within the second line of defense by highly skilled professionals with a balanced mix of credentials in banking and real sectors both on the local and international markets.
In addition to the above-mentioned risk teams, the Compliance Department reporting directly to CEO is specifically in charge of AML and compliance risk management.
As the third line of defense, the Internal Audit Department provides an independent and objective assurance and recommendations to Group that facilitates further improvement of operations and risk management.
For the management of each significant risk, the Bank puts in place specific policies and procedures, governance tools and techniques, methodologies for risk identification, assessment and quantification.
Sound risk reporting systems and IT infrastructure are important tools for efficient risk management of TBC Bank.
Thus, significant emphasis and investments are made by the Bank to constantly drive the development of required solutions.
Comprehensive reporting framework is in place for the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Board that enables intense oversight over risk developments and taking early remedial actions upon necessity.
Beyond the described risk governance components, compensation system features one of the most significant tools for introducing incentives for staff, aligned with the Banks long term interests to generate sustainable risk-adjusted returns.
The risk Key Performance Indicators KPIs are incorporated into both the business line and the risk staff remunerations.
The performance management framework differentiates risk staff incentives to safeguard the independence from business areas that they supervise and at the same time enable attraction and maintenance of qualified professionals.
For that purpose, the Bank overweighs risk KPIs for risk and control staff and caps the share of variable remuneration.
The Group is exposed to credit risk, which is the risk that a customer or counterparty will be unable to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
The Group's exposure to credit risk arises as a result of its lending operations and other transactions with counterparties giving rise to financial assets.
Maximum exposure to credit risk of on-balance sheet items equals their carrying values.
For maximum exposure on off-balance sheet commitments refer to note 38. Credit risks include: risks arising from transactions with individual counterparties, concentration risk, currency-induced credit risks and residual risks.
Risks arising from transactions with individual counterparties are the loss risk related to default or non-fulfillment of contracts due to deterioration in the counterparty's credit quality: Concentration risk is the risk related to the quality deterioration due to large exposures provided to single borrowers or a group of connected borrowers, or loan concentration in certain economic industries: Currency-induced credit risks relate to risks arising from foreign currency-denominated loans in the Groups portfolio: Residual risks result from applying credit risk-mitigation techniques, which could not satisfy expectation in relation to received collateral.
Comprehensive risk management methods and processes are established as part of the Groups risk management framework to manage credit risk effectively.
The main principles for Groups credit risk management are: establish a prudent credit risk environment: operate under a sound credit-granting process: and maintain efficient processes for credit risk identification, measurement, control and monitoring.
Respective policies and procedures establish a framework for lending decisions reflecting the Group's tolerance for credit risk.
This framework includes detailed and formalised credit evaluation and collateral appraisal processes, administration and documentation, credit approval authorities at various levels, counterparty and industry concentration limits, and clearly defined roles and responsibilities of entities and staff involved in the origination, monitoring and management of credit.
Credit Approval: The Group strives to ensure a sound credit-granting process by establishing well-defined credit granting criteria and building up an efficient process for the comprehensive assessment of a borrower's risk profile.
The concept of three lines of defense is embedded in the credit risk assessment framework, with a clear segregation of duties among the parties involved in the credit assessment process.
The credit assessment process differs across segments, being further differentiated across various product types reflecting the different natures of these asset classes.
Corporate, SME and larger retail and micro loans are assessed on an individual basis with thorough analysis of the borrowers creditworthiness and structure of the loan: whereas smaller retail and micro loans are mostly assessed in an automated way applying respective scoring models for the loan approval.
Lending guidelines for business borrowers have been tailored to individual economic sectors, outlining key lending criteria and target ratios within each industry.
260 260 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Credit Approval contiuned : The Loan Approval Committees are responsible to review the credit applications and approve the credit products.
Different Loan Approval Committees with clearly defined delegation authority are in place for the approval of credit exposures to Corporate, MSME and Retail customers except those products which are assessed applying scorecards.
The composition of a Loan Approval Committee depends on aggregated liabilities of the borrower and the borrower's risk profile.
Credit risk managers as members of respective Loan Approval Committees ensure that the borrower and the proposed credit exposure risks are thoroughly analysed.
A loan to the Banks top 20 borrowers or exceeding 5% of the Banks regulatory capital requires the review and the approval of the Supervisory Boards Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
This committee also approves transactions with related parties resulting in exposures to individuals and legal entities exceeding GEL 150 and 200 thousand, respectively.
Credit Risk Monitoring: The Group's risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk in a timely manner, and monitor adherence to predefined limits by means of reliable and timely data.
The Group dedicates considerable resources to gain a clear and accurate understanding of the credit risk faced across various business segments.
The Group uses a robust monitoring system to react timely to macro and micro developments, identify weaknesses in the credit portfolio and outline solutions to make informed risk management decisions.
Monitoring processes are tailored to the specifics of individual segments, as well as they encompass individual credit exposures, overall portfolio performance and external trends that may impact the portfolios risk profile.
Early warning signals serve as an important early alert system for the detection of credit deteriorations, leading to mitigating actions.
Complex monitoring system is in place for monitoring of individual counterparties with frequency of monitoring depending on the borrowers risk profile and exposure.
Based on the results of the monitoring borrowers are classified across different risk categories.
In case there are certain weaknesses present, which if materialized may lead to loan repayment problems, borrowers are classified as watch category.
Although watch borrowers financial standing is sufficient to repay obligations, these borrowers are closely monitored and specific actions are undertaken to mitigate potential weaknesses.
Watch category is used as one of the qualitative indicators for transferring of exposures to stage 2 for the corporate and SME borrowers.
For retail and micro borrowers along with other portfolio level indicators, portfolio breakdown across risk categories is monitored on a regular basis.
In case there are indicators that portfolio distribution across risk categories deteriorates above the predefined threshold it might trigger transferring the respective portfolio to stage 2, as long as deterioration signs are in place.
Reports relating to the credit quality of the credit portfolio are presented to the Board's Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committees on a quarterly basis.
By comparing current data with historical figures and analysing forecasts, the management believes that it is capable identifying risks and responding to them by amending its policies in a timely manner.
Credit Risk Mitigation: Credit decisions are based primarily on the borrower's repayment capacity and creditworthiness: in addition, the Group uses credit risk mitigation tools such as collateral and guarantees to reduce the credit risk.
The reliance that can be placed on these mitigation factors is carefully assessed for legal certainty and enforceability, market valuation of collateral and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
A centralised unit for collateral management governs the Group's view and strategy in relation to collateral management and ensures that collateral serves as an adequate mitigating factor for credit risk management purposes.
The collateral management framework consists of a sound independent appraisal process, haircut system throughout the underwriting process, monitoring and revaluations.
Credit Risk Restructuring and Collection: A comprehensive portfolio supervision system is in place to identify weakened or problem credit exposures in a timely manner and to take prompt remedial actions.
Dedicated restructuring units manage weakened borrowers across all business segments.
The Bank differentiates between two types of restructuring considering the severity of financial weakness of the borrowers.
For the measurement of ECL, restructured borrowers may be classified either in Stage 2 or Stage 3.
The primary goal of the restructuring units is to rehabilitate the borrower and return to the performing category or to Stage 1.
The sophistication and complexity of rehabilitation process differs based on the type and size of exposure.
A centralised monitoring team monitors retail borrowers in delinquency, which coupled with branches efforts, are aimed at maximizing collection.
The specialised software is applied for early collection processes management.
Specific strategies are tailored to different sub-groups of customers, reflecting respective risk levels, so that greater effort is dedicated to customers with a higher risk profile.
Correcting the delinquency at early stage limits the amount of exposures becoming past due more than 30 days one of the criteria indicating SICR and transferred to Stage 2.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 261 261 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Credit Risk Restructuring and Collection: Dedicated recovery units manage loans with higher risk profile.
Corporate and SME borrowers are transferred to a recovery unit in case of a strong probability that a material portion of the principal amount will not be paid and the main stream of recovery is no longer the borrowers cash flow.
Retail and micro loans are generally transferred to the recovery unit or external collection agencies in the case of unsecured loans at 90 days overdue, although they may be transferred earlier if it is evident that the borrower is unable to repay the loan.
Depending on the type of financial asset the Group may utilize different sources of asset credit quality information including credit ratings assigned by the international rating agencies Standard & Poors, Fitch, credit scoring information from credit bureau and internally developed credit ratings.
Financial assets are classified in an internally developed credit quality grades by taking into account the internal and external credit quality information in combination with other indicators specific to the particular exposure e. g. delinquency.
The Group defines following credit quality grades: Very low risk exposures demonstrate strong ability to meet financial obligations: Low risk exposures demonstrate adequate ability to meet financial obligations: Moderate risk exposures demonstrate satisfactory ability to meet financial obligations: High risk exposures that require closer monitoring: Default exposures in default, with observed credit impairment.
The internal credit ratings are estimated by the Group by statistical models with the limited involvement of credit officers.
Statistical models include qualitative and quantitative information that shows the best predictive power based on historical data on defaults.
The rating models are regularly reviewed and back tested on actual default data.
The Group regularly validates the accuracy of ratings estimates and appraises the predictive power of the models.
Expected credit loss ECL measurement: ECL is a probability-weighted estimate of the present value of future cash shortfalls.
An ECL measurement is unbiased and is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes.
ECL measurement is based on four components used by the Group: Probability of Default PD, Exposure at Default EAD, Loss Given Default LGD and Discount Rate..
The estimates consider forward looking information, that is, ECLs reflect probability weighted development of key macroeconomic variables that have an impact on credit risk.
The Bank uses is a three-stage model for ECL measurement and classifies its borrowers across three stages: The Bank classifies its exposures as Stage 1 if no significant deterioration in credit quality occurred since initial recognition and the instrument was not credit-impaired when initially recognized.
The exposure is classified to Stage 2 if the significant deterioration in credit quality was identified since initial recognition but the financial instrument is not considered credit-impaired.
The exposures for which the credit-impaired indicators have been identified are classified as Stage 3 instruments.
The Expected Credit Loss ECL amount differs depending on exposure allocation to one of the Stages.
In the case of Stage 1 instruments, the ECL represents that portion of the lifetime ECL that can be attributed to default events occurring within the next 12 months from the reporting date.
In case of Stage 2 instruments, the ECL represents the lifetime ECL, i. e. credit losses that can be attributed to possible default events during the whole lifetime of a financial instrument.
Generally, lifetime is set equal to the remaining contractual maturity of the financial instrument.
Factors such as existence of contractual repayment schedules, options for extension of repayment maturity and monitoring processes held by the Bank affect the lifetime determination.
In case of Stage 3 instruments, default event has already incurred and the lifetime ECL is estimated based on the expected recoveries Definition of default: Financial assets for which the Group observed occurrence of one or more loss events are classified in Stage 3.
For purposes of disclosure, the Group fully aligned the definition of default with the definition of credit-impaired assets.
The Groups definition of default for the purpose of ECL measurement, is in accordance with the Capital Requirements Regulation EU.
The Group uses both quantitative and qualitative criteria for the definition of default.
The borrower is classified as defaulted if at least one of the following occurred: Any amount of contractual repayments is past due more than 90 days: Factors indicating the borrowers unlikeliness-to-pay.
In case of individually significant borrowers the Bank additionally applies criteria including but not limited to: bankruptcy proceedings, significant fraud in the borrowers business that significantly affected its financial condition, breach of the contract terms etc.
For SME and corporate borrowers default is identified on the counterparty level, meaning that all the claims against the borrower are treated as defaulted.
As for retail and micro exposures, facility level default definition is applied considering additional pulling effect criteria.
If the amount of defaulted exposure exceeds predefined threshold, all the claims against the borrower are classified as defaulted.
262 262 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Definition of default contiuned : Once financial instrument is classified as defaulted, it remains as such until it no longer meets any of the default criteria for a consecutive period of six months, in which case exposure is considered to no longer be in default i. e. to have cured.
Grace period of six months has been determined on analysis of likelihood of a financial instrument returning to default status after curing.
Exposures which are moved to stage 2 from default state are kept there for certain period before transferring to Stage 1 and classified as fully performing instruments again.
Significant increase in credit risk SICR Financial assets for which the Group identifies significant increase in credit risk since its origination are classified in Stage 2.
SICR indicators are recognized at financial instrument level even though some of them refer to the borrowers characteristics.
The Group uses both quantitative and qualitative indicators of SICR.
Quantitative criteria On a quantitative basis the Bank assess change in probability of default parameter for each particular exposure since initial recognition and compares it to the predefined threshold.
When absolute change in probability of default exceeds the applicable threshold, SICR is deemed to have occurred and exposure is transferred to Stage 2.
Quantitative indicator of SICR is applied to retail and micro segments, where the Group has sufficient number of observations.
Qualitative criteria Financial asset is transferred to Stage 2 and lifetime ECLs is measured if at least one of the following SICR qualitative criteria is observed: delinquency period of more than 30 days on contractual repayments: exposure is restructured, but is not credit impaired: borrower is classified as watch.
The Group has not rebutted the presumption that there has been significant increase in credit risk since origination when financial asset becomes more than 30 days past due.
This qualitative indicator of SICR together with debt restructuring is applied to all segments.
Particularly for corporate and SME segment the Group uses downgrade of risk category since origination of the financial instrument as a qualitative indicator of SICR.
Once the borrower is classified as watch category it is transferred to Stage 2.
If any of the SICR indicators described above occur financial instrument is transferred to Stage 2.
Financial asset may be moved back to Stage 1, if SICR indicators are no longer observed.
ECL measurement: The Group utilizes two approaches for ECL measurement individual assessment and collective assessment.
Individual assessment is mainly used for credit impaired individually significant borrowers.
Additionally, the Bank may arbitrarily designate selected exposures to individual measurement of ECL based on the Banks credit risk management or underwriting departments decision.
The Bank uses the discounted cash flow DCF method for the determination of recovery amount under individual assessment.
In order to ensure the accurate estimation of recoverable amount the Bank may utilize scenario analysis approach.
Scenarios may be defined considering the specifics and future outlook of individual borrower, sector the borrower operates in or changes in values of collateral.
In case of scenario analysis the Bank forecasts recoverable amount for each scenario and estimates respective losses.
Ultimate ECL is calculated as the weighted average of losses expected in each scenario, weighted by the probability of scenario occurring.
As for the non-significant and non-impaired significant borrowers the Bank estimates expected credit losses collectively.
For the collective assessment and risk parameters estimation purposes the exposures are grouped into a homogenous risk pools based on similar credit risk characteristics.
Common credit risk characteristics of the group include but are not limited to: Stage Stage 1, Stage 2 or Stage 3, type of counterparty individual vs business, type of product, rating external or internal, overdue status, restructuring status, months in default category or any other characteristics that may differentiate certain sub-segments for risk parameters estimation purposes.
Number of pools differs for different products segments considering specifics of portfolio and availability of data within each pool.
Collective ECL is the sum of the multiplications of the following credit risk parameters: EAD, PD and LGD, that are defined as explained below, and discounted to present value using the instruments effective interest rate.
The key principles of calculating the credit risk parameters: TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 263 263 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Exposure at default EAD.
The EAD represents estimation of exposure to credit risk at the time of default occurring during the life of financial instrument.
The EAD parameter used for the purpose of the ECL calculation is time-dependent, i. e. the Bank allows for various values of the parameter to be applied to subsequent time periods during the lifetime of an exposure.
Such structure of the EAD is applied to all Stage 1 and Stage 2 financial instruments.
In case of Stage 3 financial instruments and defaulted POCI assets, the EAD vector is one-element with current EAD as the only value.
EAD is determined differently for amortising financial instruments with contractual repayment schedules and for revolving facilities.
For amortising products EAD is calculated considering the contractual repayments of principal and interest over the 12-month period for facilities classified in Stage 1 and over lifetime period for remaining instruments.
It is additionally adjusted to include effect of reduction in exposure due to prepayments.
For revolving products, the Bank estimates the EAD based on the expected limit utilisation percentage conditional on the default event.
Probability of default parameter describes the likelihood of a default of a facility over a particular time horizon.
It provides an estimate of the likelihood that a borrower will be unable to meet its contractual debt obligations.
The PD parameter is time-dependent i. e. has a specific term structure and is applied to all non-defaulted contracts.
Taking into account specific nature of different segments of clients for which the PD is estimated as well as unique characteristics that drive their default propensity, the PD is modelled differently for Retail and Micro segments and Corporate and SME segments.
PD assessment approach is also differentiated for different time horizons and is further adjusted due to expected influence of macroeconomic variables as forecasted for the period.
Two types of PDs are used for calculating ECLs: 12-month and lifetime PD.
Lifetime PDs represent the estimated probability of a default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument and it is a sum of the 12 months marginal PDs over the life of the instrument.
The Group uses different statistical approaches such as the extrapolation of 12-month PDs based on migration matrixes, developing lifetime PD curves based on the historical default data and gradual convergence of long-term PD with the long-term default rate.
The LGD parameter represents the share of an exposure that would be irretrievably lost if a borrower defaults.
For Stage 1 and Stage 2 financial instruments, the LGD is estimated for each period in the instruments lifetime and reflects the share of the expected EAD for that period that will not be recovered over the remaining lifetime of the instrument after the default date.
For Stage 3 financial instruments, the LGD represents the share of the EAD as of reporting date that will not be recovered over the remaining life of that instrument.
Assessment of LGD varies by the type of counterparty, segment, type of product, securitization level and availability of historical observations.
The general LGD estimation process employed by the Bank is based on the assumption that after the default of the exposure, two mutually exclusive scenarios are possible.
The exposure either leaves the default state cure scenario or does not leave the default state and will be subject to recovery process non-cure scenario.
The probability that an exposure defaults again in the cure scenario is involved in the estimation process.
Risk parameters applicable to both scenarios, i. e. cure rates and recovery rates, are estimated by means of migration matrices approach, where risk groups are defined by consecutive months-in-default.
For certain portfolios based on the limitations of observations alternative versions of the general approach may be applied.
The measurement of unbiased, probability weighted ECL requires inclusion of forward looking information obtainable without undue cost or effort.
For forward looking information purposes the Bank defines three macro scenarios.
The scenarios are defined as baseline most likely, upside better than most likely and downside worse than most likely scenarios of the state of the Georgian economy with weights of 50%, 25% and 25% assigned to each scenario respectively.
To derive the baseline macro-economic scenario, the Group takes into account forecasts from various external sources the National Bank of Georgia, Ministry of Finance, International Monetary Fund IMF as well as other International Financial Institutions IFIs in order to ensure the to the consensus market expectations.
The forward looking information is incorporated in both individual and collective assessment of expected credit losses.
The Group regularly reviews its methodology and assumptions to reduce any difference between the estimates and the actual credit loss.
Such back-testing is performed at least once a year.
As part of the back-testing process, the Group evaluates actual realization of the risk parameters and their consistency with the model estimates.
Additionally staging criteria are also analysed within the back-testing process.
The results of back-testing the ECL measurement methodology are communicated to the Group Management and further actions for tuning the models and assumptions are defined after discussions between authorised persons.
Assets, liabilities, credit related commitments and performance guarantees have generally been attributed to geographic regions based on the country in which the counterparty is located.
Balances legally outstanding to from off-shore companies which are closely related to Georgian counterparties are allocated to the caption Georgia.
Cash on hand and premises and equipment have been allocated based on the country in which they are physically held.
The Bank follows the Basel Committee's definition of market risk as the risk of losses in onand off-balance sheet positions arising from movements in market prices.
This risk is principally made up of a risks pertaining to interest rate instruments and equities in the trading book and b foreign exchange rate risk or currency risk and commodities risk throughout the Bank.
The Bank's strategy is not to be involved in trading book activity or investments in commodities.
Accordingly, the Bank's exposure to market risk is primarily limited to foreign exchange rate risk in the structural book.
Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect the value of a financial instrument.
This risk stems from the open currency positions created due to mismatches in foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The NBG requires the Bank to monitor both balance-sheet and total aggregate including off-balance sheet open currency positions and to maintain the later one within 20% of the Banks regulatory capital.
As of 31 December 2018, the Bank maintained an aggregate open currency position of 7.6% of regulatory capital 2017: 1.5%: 2016: 3.2%.
The Asset-Liability Management Committee ALCO has set limits on the level of exposure by currency as well as on aggregate exposure positions which are more conservative than those set by the NBG.
The Banks compliance with such limits is monitored daily by the heads of the Treasury and Financial Risk Management Departments.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 267 267 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Currency risk management framework is governed through the Market Risk Management Policy, market risk management procedure and relevant methodologies.
Under the ICAAP framework the Bank developed methodology for allocating capital charges for FX risk following Basel guidelines.
The table below summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at the balance sheet date.
While managing open currency position the Group considers all provisions to be denominated in the local currency.
Gross amount of currency swap deposits is included in Derivatives.
Therefore total financial assets and liabilities below are not traceable with either balance sheet or liquidity risk management tables, where net amount of gross currency swaps is presented.
The analysis calculates the effect on the Groups income determined by possible worst movement of currency rates against the Georgian Lari, with all other variables held constant.
To identify the maximum expected losses resulting from currency fluctuations, a 99% confidence level is defined based on the monthly variations in exchange rates over 3 year look-back period.
During the years ended 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016, the sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant potential effect on the Groups equity: As of As of As of In thousands of GEL 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Maximum loss VAR, 99% confidence level 8,890 2,206 1,184 Maximum loss VAR, 95% confidence level 6,162 1,462 868 Interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk arises from potential changes in the market interest rates that can adversely affect the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instrument.
This risk can arise from maturity mismatches of assets and liabilities, as well as from the re-pricing characteristics of such assets and liabilities.
The Banks deposits and the most loans are at fixed interest rates, while a portion of the Banks borrowings is at a floating interest rate.
The Banks floating rate borrowings are, to a certain extent, hedged by the NBG paying a floating rate on the minimum reserves that the Bank holds with the NBG.
The Bank used to enter has also entered into interest rate swap agreements or apply for other interest rate risk hedging instruments in order to mitigate interest rate risk.
Furthermore, many of the Banks loans to customers contain a clause allowing it to adjust the interest rate on the loan in case of adverse interest rate movements, thereby limiting the Banks exposure to interest rate risk.
The management also believes that the Banks interest rate margins provide a reasonable buffer to mitigate the effect of possible adverse interest rate movements.
268 268 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Interest rate risk continued.
The table below summarises the Groups exposure to interest rate risks.
It illustrates the aggregated amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the amounts monitored by the management and categorised by the earlier of contractual interest re-pricing or maturity dates.
Currency and interest rate swaps are not netted when assessing the Groups exposure to interest rate risks.
Therefore, total financial assets and liabilities below are not traceable with either balance sheet or other financial risk management tables.
The tables consider both reserves placed with NBG and Interest bearing Nostro accounts.
Income on NBG reserves and Nostros are calculated as benchmark minus margin whereby for benchmark Federal funds rate and ECB rates are considered in case of USD and EUR respectively.
Therefore, they have impact on the TBCs Net interest income in case of both upward and downward shift of interest rates.
Other comprehensive income would have been GEL 8.6 million higher 2017: GEL 6.1 million: 2016: GEL 1.5 million, as a result of an increase in the fair value of fixed rate financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and repurchase receivables.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher, with all other variables held constant, profit would have been GEL 4.8 million lower 2017: GEL 7.4 million: 2016: GEL 9.5 million, mainly as a result of higher interest income on variable interest assets.
Other comprehensive income would have been GEL 8.2 million lower 2017: GEL 5.9 million: 2016: GEL 2.1 million, as a result of decrease in the fair value of fixed rate financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
With the assistance of Ernst & Young LLC the Bank has developed an advanced model to manage the interest rate risk on a standalone basis.
The interest rate risk analysis is performed monthly by the Financial Risk Management Department.
The Bank calculates the impact of changes in interest rates using both Net Interest Income and Economic Value sensitivity.
Net Interest Income sensitivity measures the impact of a change of interest rates along the various maturities on the yield curve on the net interest revenue for the nearest year.
Economic Value measures the impact of a change of interest rates along the various maturities on the yield curve on the present value of the Groups assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments.
When performing Net Interest Income and Economic Value sensitivity analysis, the Bank uses parallel shifts in interest rates as well as number of different scenarios.
Under the ICAAP framework, TBC Bank reserves capital in the amount of the adverse effect of possible parallel yield curve shift scenarios on net interest income over a one-year period for Basel II Pillar 2 capital calculation purposes.
In order to manage Interest Rate risk the Bank establishes appropriate limits.
The Bank monitors compliance with the limits and prepares forecasts.
ALCO decides on actions that are necessary for effective interest rate risk management and follows up on the implementation.
Periodic reporting is done to Management Board and the Boards Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
The liquidity risk is the risk that TBC Bank either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet all of its obligations and commitments as they fall due, or can access those resources only at a high cost.
The risk is managed by the Financial Risk Management and Treasury Departments and is monitored by the ALCO.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 269 269 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The principal objectives of the TBC Banks liquidity risk management policy are to: i ensure the availability of funds in order to meet claims arising from total liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments, both actual and contingent, at an economic price: ii recognise any structural mismatch existing within TBC Bank's statement of financial position and set monitoring ratios to manage funding in line with well-balanced growth: and iii monitor liquidity and funding on an on-going basis to ensure that approved business targets are met without compromising the risk profile of the Bank.
The liquidity risk is categorised into two risk types: the funding liquidity risk and the market liquidity risk.
Funding liquidity risk is the risk that TBC will not be able to efficiently meet both expected and unexpected current and future cash flow and collateral needs without affecting either its daily operations or its financial condition.
To manage funding liquidity risk TBC Bank internally developed Liquidity Coverage ratio and a Net Stable Funding ratio models, both under Basel III, guidelines.
In addition the Bank performs stress tests and what-if scenario analysis and minimum liquidity ratio defined by the NBG.
In 2017, for liquidity risk management purposes National Bank of Georgia introduced Liquidity Coverage Ratio NBG LCR, where in addition to Basel III guidelines conservative approaches were applied to Mandatory Reserves weighting and to the deposits withdrawal rates depending on the clients groups concentration.
From 1st of September, 2017 the Bank also monitors compliance with NBG LCR limits.
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio is used to help manage short-term liquidity risks.
The Bank's liquidity risk management framework is designed to comprehensively project cash flows arising from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items over certain time buckets and ensure that NBG LCR limits, are met on a daily basis.
TBC Bank also stress tests the results of liquidity through large shock scenarios provided by the NBG.
The Net Stable Funding ratio is used for long-term liquidity risk management to promote resilience over a longer time horizon by creating additional incentives for TBC Bank to rely on more stable sources of funding on a continuous basis.
The Bank also sets deposit concentration limits for large deposits and deposits of non-Georgian residents in its deposit portfolio.
Net Stable Funding ratio is calculated based on the IFRS consolidated financial statements.
In addition, for internal purposes TBC Bank calculates NSFR ratio on the basis of standalone financial statements prepared in accordance with NBGs accounting rules.
The management believes that a strong and diversified funding structure is one of TBC Banks differentiators.
The Bank relies on relatively stable deposits from Georgia as the main source of funding.
In order to maintain and further enhance the liability structure TBC Bank sets the targets for retail deposits in its strategy and sets the loan to deposit ratio limits.
The loan to deposit ratio defined as total value of net loans divided by total value of deposits stood at 107.3%, 106.5% and 110.5%, at the 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.
Market liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank cannot easily offset or eliminate a position at the then-current market price because of inadequate market depth or market disruption.
To manage it, TBC Bank follows Basel III guidelines on highquality liquidity asset eligibility in order to ensure that the Bank's high-quality liquid assets can be sold without causing a significant movement in the price and with minimum loss of value.
In addition, TBC Bank has a liquidity contingency plan, which is part of the Bank's overall prudential liquidity policy and is designed to ensure that TBC Bank is able to meet its funding and liquidity requirements and maintain its core business operations in deteriorating liquidity conditions that could arise outside the ordinary course of its business.
The Bank calculates its liquidity ratios on a daily basis in accordance with the NBGs requirements.
The Liquidity Ratio: The limit is set by the NBG for average liquidity ratio, which is calculated as the ratio of average liquid assets to average liabilities for the respective month, including borrowings from financial institutions and part of off-balance sheet liabilities with residual maturity up to 6 months.
NBG LCR is calculated by reference to the qualified liquid assets divided by 30-day cash net outflows defined as per NBG guidelines.
The limit is set by the NBG as per total LCR also by currency GEL, FX.
To promote larization in the country of Georgia, NBG defines lower limit for GEL LCR than that for FX LCR.
In addition, NBG mandatory Regulatory reserves in FX currency is only considered at 75% per LCR calculation purposes.
NBG guidelines apply higher withdrawal rates to the deposits and off-balance instruments depending on the clients groups concentration than those rates defined per Basel III requirements.
270 270 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As of 31 December the ratios were well above the prudential limit set by the NBG as follows: 2018 2017 2016 Average Liquidity Ratio 33.3% 32.5% 30.8% Total Liquidity Coverage Ratio 113.9% 112.7% - GEL Liquidity Coverage Ratio 102.5% 95.6% - FX Liquidity Coverage Ratio 121.1% 122.9% - According to daily cash flow forecasts and the surplus in liquidity standing, the Treasury Department places funds in shortterm liquid assets, largely made up of short-term risk-free securities, interbank deposits and other inter-bank facilities, to ensure that sufficient liquidity is maintained within the Group as a whole.
The table below summarizes the maturity analysis of the Groups financial liabilities, based on remaining undiscounted contractual obligations as of 31 December 2018 Subject-to-notice repayments are treated as if notice were to be given immediately.
However, the Group expects that many customers will not request repayment on the earliest date the Group could be required to pay and the table does not reflect the expected cash flows indicated by the Groups deposit retention history.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2018 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to Over In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 950,084 372,517 1,909,587 187,454 3,419,642 Customer accounts individuals 3,152,851 1,408,710 628,831 27,397 5,217,789 Customer accounts other 3,821,862 208,250 137,275 195,007 4,362,394 Other financial liabilities 77,522 21,192 - - 98,714 Subordinated debt 5,267 71,519 388,594 588,197 1,053,577 Debt securities in issue 366 13,847 - - 14,213 Gross settled forwards 567,259 16,008 - - 583,267 Performance guarantees 119,959 349,354 671,333 55,166 1,195,812 Financial guarantees 9,932 44,703 51,337 - 105,972 Other credit related commitments 769,863 - - - 769,863 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 9,474,965 2,506,100 3,786,957 1,053,221 16,821,243 The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2017 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to Over In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 1,142,865 418,613 1,167,970 151,417 2,880,865 Customer accounts individuals 2,532,039 1,378,835 522,104 40,727 4,473,705 Customer accounts other 3,068,027 192,852 133,236 80,976 3,475,091 Other financial liabilities 82,685 8,808 260 - 91,753 Subordinated debt 5,060 74,191 198,042 346,703 623,996 Debt securities in issue 504 8,814 13,687 - 23,005 Gross settled forwards 176,822 5,509 - - 182,331 Performance guarantees 55,914 241,460 306,788 8,135 612,297 Financial guarantees 52,256 122,014 74,457 155 248,882 Other credit related commitments 728,178 - - - 728,178 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 7,844,350 2,451,096 2,416,544 628,113 13,340,103 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 271 271 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2016 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to Over In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 837,188 310,447 1,103,959 168,271 2,419,865 Customer accounts individuals 2,147,015 1,284,067 360,609 39,578 3,831,269 Customer accounts other 2,287,043 238,551 134,293 74,180 2,734,067 Other financial liabilities 46,971 2,883 1,144- 50,998 Subordinated debt 4,853 29,510 238,224 360,551 633,138 Debt securities in issue 616 6,584 22,745 - 29,945 Gross settled forwards 16,084 3,641 369 - 20,094 Performance guarantees 60,552 154,616 210,595 845 426,608 Financial guarantees 117,994 102,311 50,657 140 271,102 Other credit related commitments 449,110 - - - 449,110 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 5,967,426 2,132,610 2,122,595 643,565 10,866,196 The undiscounted financial liability analysis gap does not reflect the historical stability of the current accounts.
Their liquidation has historically taken place over a longer period than the one indicated in the tables above.
These balances are included in amounts due in less than three months in the tables above.
Term Deposits included in the customer accounts are classified based on remaining contractual maturities, according to the Georgian Civil Code, however, individuals have the right to withdraw their deposits prior to maturity if they partially or fully forfeit their right to accrued interest and the Group is obliged to repay such deposits upon the depositors demand.
Based on the Banks deposit retention history, the management does not expect that many customers will require repayment on the earliest possible date: accordingly, the table does not reflect the managements expectations as to actual cash outflows.
The Group does not use the above undiscounted maturity analysis to manage liquidity.
Instead, the Group monitors the liquidity gap analysis based on the expected maturities.
In particular, the customers deposits are distributed in the given maturity gaps following their behavioural analysis.
272 272 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Maturity analysis continued.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 273 273 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED As of 31 December 2017 the analysis by expected maturities may be as follows: Less than From 3 to From 1 to 5 Over In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months Years 5 years Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 - - - 1,431,477 Due from other banks 32,845 3,071 3,727 - 39,643 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 - - - 1,033,818 Loans and advances to customers 1,031,608 1,767,797 3,438,180 2,087,768 8,325,353 Investment securities available for sale 657,938 - - - 657,938 Bonds carried at amortised cost 81,859 105,956 216,177 45,546 449,538 Finance lease receivables 22,896 38,526 82,414 - 143,836 Other financial assets 110,604 22,207 13,333 - 146,144 Total financial assets 4,403,045 1,937,557 3,753,831 2,133,314 12,227,747 Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 1,137,076 351,381 990,480 141,777 2,620,714 Customer accounts 844,123 136,821 - 6,835,873 7,816,817 Debt securities in issue 47 7,778 12,870 - 20,695 Other financial liabilities 82,685 8,808 260 - 91,753 Subordinated debt 3,471 49,694 97,372 276,251 426,788 Total financial liabilities 2,067,402 554,482 1,100,982 7,253,901 10,976,767 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees Performance guarantees 2,067 - - - 2,067 Financial guarantees 8,239 - - - 8,239 Other credit related commitments 105,268 - - - 105,268 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees 115,574 - - - 115,574 Net liquidity gap as of 31 December 2017 2,220,069 1,383,075 2,652,849 5,120,587 1,135,406 Cumulative gap as of 31 December 2017 2,220,069 3,603,144 6,255,993 1,135,406 274 274 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Maturity analysis continued.
The statistical data was used on the basis of a holding period of one month for a look-back period of five years with a confidence level of 99%.
The value at risk analysis was performed for the following maturity gaps: 0-1 months, 0-3 months, 0-6 months and 0-12 months, based on which the maximum percentage of deposits outflow was calculated.
Management believes that in spite of a substantial portion of customers accounts being on demand, diversification of these deposits by number and type of depositors, and the past experience of the Group would indicate that these customer accounts provide a long-term and stable source of funding for the Group.
Moreover, the Groups liquidity risk management includes estimation of maturities for its current deposits.
The estimate is based on statistical methods applied to historic information on the fluctuations of customer account balances.
Most of the Groups business is based in Georgia.
Emerging economies, such as Georgias, are subject to rapid change and are vulnerable to global market conditions and economic downturns.
As a consequence, operations in Georgia may be exposed to certain risks that are not typically associated with those in developed markets.
Nevertheless, over the last few years the Georgian government has embarked on a number of civil, criminal, tax, administrative and commercial reforms that have positively affected the overall investment climate of the country.
Today Georgia has an international reputation as a country with a favourable investment environment.
Georgia continued to progress in the report Doing Business 2019 by the World Bank WB and International Financing Corporation IFC, ranking as the 6th easiest country in the world to do business out of 190, up by 7 steps compared to the previous year rankings.
The country improved its ranking in almost all categories, confirming its position as regional leader and outperforming most of the EU economies.
Georgia also boasts low corruption levels, a low tax burden, and high transparency of its institutions according to the number of surveys by international institutions.
The domestic economic environment remains stable and the banking sector continues to grow, supported by broader macroeconomic stability and attractive business climate.
As a result of strong macroeconomic performance, diversified sources of inflows and prudent macroeconomic policies, on February 22, 2019 Fitch Ratings TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 275 275 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED upgraded Georgias sovereign credit rating from BBto BB with stable outlook.
GDP growth stood at 4.8% YoY in 2018, per initial estimates of Geostat.
The growth was broad-based across different sectors of the economy.
Based on 9m quarterly released figures, 4.8% higher value added YoY was mostly driven by trade and repairs 5.7% YoY, real estate 12.7% YoY, transport and communications 6.8% YoY, financial intermediation 15.8% YoY and hotels and restaurants 7.3% YoY.
The construction sector declined by 3.8% YoY over the same period, reflecting one-off factors related to the several large-scale infrastructure projects as well as slowdown in public spending.
The growth of inflows of exports, tourism and remittances remained strong in H1 2018 26.4% YoY in USD terms.
Following the economic difficulties in Turkey, sanctions on Iran, and RUB weakness, the growth of inflows slowed in the second half of 2018 14.6% YoY, but still remained solid.
As for the full year of 2018, the growth of total inflows amounted to 19.4 % YoY.
CA balance continues to improve.
Over the last four quarters ending Q3 2018 CA deficit to GDP ratio stood at 8.3% compared to the 8.8% in 2017.
Improvement in CA deficit mostly reflects several factors, including continued positive trend in external inflows, normalization of FDI related imports as well as low fiscal spending.
As a result of the improvement trend and strong seasonal effect, in Q3 2018 CA turned even to surplus at 0.3% of GDP.
FDI inflows declined by 27.2% YoY in 9m 2018 mostly reflecting one-offs related to the finalization of the BPs South Caucasus 1 Pipeline Extension project.
From the sectors perspective, the decline was most pronounced in transport and communications -70.6% YoY and construction sectors, both to be primarily explained by the finalization of BPs project mentioned above.
FDI inflows also declined in real estate -47.8% YoY and hotels and restaurants -11.1% YoY sector.
At the same time, FDI inflows went up in manufacturing 61.2% YoY, mining 38.1% YoY, financial 31.1% YoY and energy 30.1% YoY sectors.
FDI inflows remain the major source of financing for the CA deficit.
Fiscal policy remained contractionary throughout the year.
Although the budget deficit amounted to an estimated 2.6% of GDP in 2018, the spending was concentrated mostly by the end of the year and primarily reflected the advance payments on infrastructure projects.
The full impact of the spending on growth will be materialized later in coming months with the strongest effect likely in Q2 2019.
Loan growth remained solid in 2018 with the total bank loan portfolio expanding by 17.2% YoY at constant exchange rate.
Lending was strong across the business as well as retail segments, albeit, sharp slowdown in non-mortgage retail lending was notable since the introduction of the regulation on unsecured lending in May 2018.
Annual CPI inflation was around the targeted level of 3% in 2018 with 4.3% in January and gradually declining to 1.5% by the end of 2018.
The NBG decreased policy rate by 0.25 PP from 7.25% to 7.00% in July 2018.
The central bank continued the normalization of the monetary policy in 2019 as well, cutting the policy rate by another 0.25 pp to 6.75% in January 2019.
According to the announcement following the latest monetary policy committee meeting, NBG is expected to continue to normalize the policy stance at a slow pace, depending on the domestic demand as well as the external sector developments.
On the back of higher inflows, lower oil prices and likely weaker domestic demand, NBG continued to refill international reserves and purchased 65 mln USD in December, equivalent to an estimated 4.0% of the same month GDP.
Overall, in 2018 NBG made 17 interventions and purchased 197.5 mln USD an estimated 1.2% of GDP.
As for the exchange rates, as of the end of December 2018 GEL nominal exchange rate weakened against USD by 3.3% YoY and appreciated against EUR by 1.1% YoY.
Over the same period, GEL nominal effective exchange rate appreciated by 8.0% while real effective exchange rate appreciation stood at 4.6%.
37 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL The Groups objectives in terms of capital management are to maintain appropriate levels of capital to support the business strategy, meet regulatory and stress testing-related requirements and safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Additionally, the Groups capital management objectives entail ensuring that the Bank complies with the capital requirements set by the Basel Capital Accord 1988 capital adequacy ratios as stipulated by borrowing agreements.
The compliance with capital adequacy ratios set by the NBG is monitored monthly with the reports outlining their calculation and are reviewed and signed by the Banks CFO and Deputy CFO.
The Bank and the Group complied with all its internally and externally imposed capital requirements throughout 2016, 2017 and 2018.
com en ge bp-georgia about-bp bp-in-georgia --scp-.
html 276 276 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 37 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL CONTINUED In December 2017, the NBG has introduced updated capital framework that is more compliant with Basel III guidelines.
Under updated capital framework capital requirements are divided into Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 buffers.
Details regarding the capital buffers are outlined below: The capital conservation buffer which was incorporated in minimum capital requirements is separated and set at 2.5%: A systemic risk buffer will be introduced for systematically important banks over the 4 years period: A systemic risk buffer as of December 2018 equals to 1%: A countercyclical capital buffer is set at 0%: A currency induced credit risk CICR buffer replaced conservative weighting for un-hedged FX loans denominated in foreign currencies: Concentration buffer for sectoral and single borrower exposure will be introduced: The need for the net stress buffer will be assessed based on stress testing results provided by the Group: A General Risk-assessment Programme GRAPE buffer defined by the regulator, is applied based on the Banks specific risks.
In addition, based on the updated methodology, specific PTI payment to income and LTV loan to value thresholds were introduced.
For the exposures which do not fall into pre-defined limits for PTI and LTV ratios, higher risk weights were applied.
NBG Basel II Capital adequacy ratio Both, Tier 1 and Total capital adequacy ratios are calculated based on the Basel III methodology introduced by NBG.
The details are described on page 277.
The table below presents the capital adequacy ratios as well as minimum requirements set by the NBG.
In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 Tier 1 Capital 1,678,716 1,437,218 Tier 2 Capital 672,553 448,069 Regulatory capital 2,351,269 1,885,287 Risk-weighted Exposures Credit Risk Weighted Exposures 11,458,497 9,754,146 Risk Weighted Exposures for Market Risk 179,381 28,802 Risk Weighted Exposures for Operational Risk 1,516,993 970,241 Total Risk-weighted Exposures 13,154,871 10,753,189 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 11.8% 10.3% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 12.8% 13.4% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 16.7% 12.9% Total Capital adequacy ratio 17.9% 17.5% The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of 31 December 2017 are given in the tables below: 2018 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Deposits and Securities 4,181,199 1,625,289 Gross Loans and accrued interests 9,206,646 7,203,609 Repossessed assets 46,755 46,755 Fixed assets and intangible assets 508,582 287,403 Other assets 1,428,945 1,639,128 minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 37,705 37,705 Total 15,334,422 10,764,479 Total Off-balance 2,694,174 694,018 Market Risk 179,381 179,381 Operational Risk 809,063 1,516,993 Total Amount 19,017,040 13,154,871 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 277 277 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL CONTINUED 2017 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Deposits and Securities 3,510,760 1,275,017 Gross Loans and accrued interests 8,233,132 6,798,464 Repossessed assets 58,530 58,530 Fixed assets and intangible assets 437,878 264,768 Other assets 553,176 713,096 minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 30,862 30,862 Total 12,762,614 9,079,013 Total Off-balance 1,919,565 675,133 Market Risk 28,802 28,802 Operational Risk 517,462 970,241 Total Amount 15,228,443 10,753,189 For year ended 31 December 2016 under the NBG Basel II III requirements, the Bank calculated its capital requirements and risk weighted assets separately for Pillar 1.
The NBG provided detailed instructions of Pillar 1 calculations.
The reporting started at the end of 2013.
The composition of the Banks capital calculated in accordance with Basel II Pillar I is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2016 Tier 1 Capital 1,041,270 Tier 2 Capital 380,751 Regulatory capital 1,422,021 Risk-weighted Exposures Credit Risk Weighted Exposures 9,399,140 Risk Weighted Exposures for Market Risk 45,689 Risk Weighted Exposures for Operational Risk 576,628 Total Risk-weighted Exposures 10,021,457 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 8.5% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 10.4% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 10.5% Total Capital adequacy ratio 14.2% The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of 31 December 2016 is given in the table below: 2016 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Deposits and Securities 2,397,259 1,086,262 Gross Loans and accrued interests 5,771,369 7,149,145 Repossessed assets 46,441 46,441 Fixed assets and intangible assets 328,184 273,176 Other assets 647,261 536,747 minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 45,534 45,534 Total 9,144,980 9,046,237 Total Off-balance 978,221 352,903 Market Risk 45,689 45,689 Operational Risk 403,640 576,628 Total Amount 10,572,530 10,021,457 278 278 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 37 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL CONTINUED Capital adequacy ratio under Basel Capital Accord 1988 The Group and the Bank are also subject to minimum capital requirements established by covenants stated in loan agreements.
These requirements include capital adequacy levels calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Basel Accord, as defined in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards updated April 1998 and Amendment to the Capital Accord to incorporate market risks updated November 2005, commonly known as Basel I.
The composition of the Groups capital calculated in accordance with Basel Accord is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Tier 1 capital Share capital 542,204 524,807 524,778 Retained earnings and disclosed reserves 1,509,990 1,254,331 983,387 Less: Goodwill 29,459 26,892 26,892 Non-controlling interest 527 4,735 4,383 Total tier 1 capital 2,023,262 1,756,981 1,485,656 Tier 2 capital Revaluation reserves 58,995 64,489 59,240 General Reserve 129,739 109,372 88,300 Subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital 548,508 355,944 323,087 Total tier 2 capital 737,242 529,805 470,627 Total capital 2,760,504 2,286,786 1,956,283 Credit risk weighted assets including off-balance obligations 10,379,124 8,749,752 7,064,035 Less: General Reserve 204,391 118,492 136,721 Market Risk 210,916 40,803 46,484 Total Risk-weighted assets 10,385,649 8,672,063 6,973,798 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 19.5% 20.3% 21.3% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% Total Capital adequacy ratio 26.6% 26.4% 28.1% Following the Basel I guidelines the General Reserve is defined by the management as the minimum among the following: a IFRS provisions created on loans without impairment trigger event: b 2% of loans without impairment trigger event: c 1.25% of total RWA Risk Weighted Assets.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 279 279 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37 MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL CONTINUED The breakdown of the Groups assets into the carrying amounts and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of the end of 2018, 2017, 2016 are provided in the tables below: 2018 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities measured at FVOCI 4,285,970 244,844 Gross loans and accrued interests 10,372,582 8,281,144 Repossessed assets 124,643 124,643 Fixed assets and intangible assets 504,035 474,576 Other assets 499,747 499,747 Total 15,786,977 9,624,954 Total Off-balance 2,674,697 754,170 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 204,391 204,391 Market Risk 210,916 210,916 Total Amount 18,468,199 10,385,649 2017 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities measured at FVOCI 3,609,132 214,353 Gross loans and accrued interests 8,553,217 6,885,960 Repossessed assets 116,809 116,809 Fixed assets and intangible assets 476,027 449,136 Other assets 409,876 409,876 Total 13,165,061 8,076,134 Total Off-balance 1,907,457 673,618 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 118,492 118,492 Market Risk 40,803 40,803 Total Amount 14,994,829 8,672,063 2016 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities measured at FVOCI 2,762,892 133,527 Gross loans and accrued interests 7,358,725 5,609,312 Repossessed assets 90,873 90,873 Fixed assets and intangible assets 401,174 374,282 Other assets 373,118 373,118 Total 10,986,782 6,581,112 Total Off-balance 1,290,813 482,923 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 136,721 136,721 Market Risk 46,484 46,484 Total Amount 12,187,358 6,973,798 280 280 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 38.
CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS Legal proceedings.
When determining the level of provision to be set up with regards to such claims, or the amount not subject to provisioning to be disclosed in the financial statements, the management seeks both internal and external professional advice.
The management believes that the provision recorded in these financial statements is adequate and the amount not subject to provisioning need not be disclosed as it will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
Georgian and Azerbaijani tax and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations, and changes, which can occur frequently.
The managements interpretation of the legislation as applied to the Groups transactions and activity may be challenged by the relevant authorities.
Fiscal periods remain open to review by the authorities in respect of taxes for five calendar years preceding the review period.
To respond to the risks, the Group has engaged external tax specialists to carry out periodic reviews of Groups taxation policies and tax filings.
The Groups management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained.
Accordingly, as of 31 December 2018, 2017 and 2016 no provision for potential tax liabilities has been recorded.
Where the Group is the lessee, as of 31 December 2018, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases over the next year amounted to GEL 11,022 thousand 31 December 2017: 6,479 thousand: 31 December 2016: 5,016 thousand.
The Group is subject to certain covenants primarily related to its borrowings.
Non-compliance with such covenants may result in negative consequences for the Group including growth in the cost of borrowings and declaration of default.
The Group was in compliance with all covenants as of 31 December 2018.
In April 2017, the group had breached one of the covenants with a foreign financial institution lender.
The group has obtained the waiver from the financial institution in June 2017, whereby the breach was retrospectively waived.
As of 31 December 2016, TBC Kredit had breached certain borrowing covenants agreed with foreign financial institution lenders.
The major reason for the breach was drastic devaluation of Azerbaijani Manat in February and December 2015.
The Group was in compliance with all other covenants as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. Credit related commitments and financial guarantees.
The primary purpose of these instruments is to ensure that funds are available to a customer as required.
Financial guarantees and standby letters of credit, which represent the irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties, carry the same credit risk as loans.
Documentary and commercial letters of credit, that are written undertakings by the Group on behalf of a customer authorising a third party to draw drafts on the Group up to a stipulated amount under specific terms and conditions, are collateralised by the underlying shipments of goods to which they relate or cash deposits and therefore carry less risk than a direct borrowing.
Commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to prolong credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit.
With respect to credit risk on commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to a loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is lower than the total unused commitments since most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards.
The Group monitors the term to maturity of credit related commitments because longer-term commitments generally have a greater degree of credit risk than shorter-term ones.
Outstanding credit related commitments are as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Undrawn credit lines 769,863 728,178 449,110 Letters of credit issued 105,972 106,919 154,842 Financial guarantees issued - 141,963 116,260 Total credit related commitments before credit loss allowance 875,835 977,060 720,212 Credit loss allowance for credit related commitments 5,424 8,239 8,049 Total credit related commitments 870,411 968,821 712,163 The total outstanding contractual amount of undrawn credit lines, letters of credit, and guarantees does not necessarily represent future cash requirements, as these financial instruments may expire or terminate without being funded.
Noncancellable commitments as of 31 December 2018 were GEL 344,360 thousand 2017: GEL 389,148 thousand: 2016: GEL 169,831 thousand.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 281 281 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 38.
CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS CONTINUED Performance guarantees.
Performance guarantees are contracts that provide compensation in case of another party fails to perform a contractual obligation.
The risk under the performance guarantee contracts is the possibility that the insured event occurs i. e. : the failure to perform the contractual obligation by another party.
The key risks the Group faces are significant fluctuations in the frequency and severity of payments incurred on such contracts, relative to expectations.
Fair value of credit related commitments were GEL 5,424 thousand as of 31 December 2018 2017: GEL 8,239 thousand: 2016: GEL 8,049 thousand.
Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees are denominated in currencies as follows: Capital expenditure commitments.
As of 31 December 2018, the Group has contractual capital expenditure commitments amounting to GEL 12,210 thousand 2017: 7,816 thousand: 2016: 5,665 thousand.
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The following table provides information about each subsidiary with a non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2018: Proportion of non-controlling Profit attributable to Accumulated non-controlling In thousands of GEL interests voting rights held non-controlling interest interest in the subsidiary TBC Bank JSC including: 0.12% 2,357 3,062 TBC Leasing JSC 0.39% 26 96 TBC Kredit LLC - 251 - United Financial Corporation JSC 1.33% 59 517 BG LLC - 88 - In 2018 the Group purchased remaining 25% shareholding from TBC Kredit LLC shareholders and became 100% owner of the company.
In 2018 the Group obtained fide-facto control over BG LLC and the total return from the subsidiary have been attributable to the NCI.
The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2018: Total Current Non-current Current Non-current comprehensive In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue Profit income Cash flows TBC Bank JSC 7,421,134 8,031,716 9,955,303 3,385,828 1,066,089 433,051 448,749 264,368 TBC Leasing JSC 160,619 128,610 138,582 126,954 26,998 6,585 6,585 10,773 TBC Kredit LLC 19,639 14,987 13,961 10,813 3,177 1,836 1,836 1,622 United Financial Corporation JSC 8,711 6,646 3,284 - 12,401 4,427 4,427 438 BG LLC 8,964 1 60 8,993 123 88 88 63 The following table provides information about each subsidiary with a non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2017: Proportion of non-controlling Profit loss attributable to Accumulated non-controlling In thousands of GEL interests voting rights held non-controlling interest interest in the subsidiary TBC Bank JSC including: 1.33% 5,518 29,255 TBC Leasing JSC 0.39% 14 70 TBC Kredit LLC 25% 275 4,165 United Financial Corporation JSC 1.33% 63 500 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 283 283 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 39.
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST CONTINUED The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2017: Total comprehensive Current Non-current Current Non-current Profit income In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue loss expense Cash flows TBC Bank JSC 6,490,075 6,447,122 8,830,604 2,258,231 850,450 362,429 367,678 466,249 TBC Leasing JSC 111,169 87,928 95,988 85,262 15,236 3,436 3,436 2,450 TBC Kredit LLC 19,771 20,319 11,858 20,636 5,172 1,098 1,098 3,631 United Financial Corporation JSC 6,353 5,136 1,255 45 12,708 4,733 4,733 40 The following table provides information about each subsidiary with non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2016: Proportion of non-controlling Profit loss attributable to Accumulated non-controlling In thousands of GEL interests voting rights held non-controlling interest interest in the subsidiary TBC Bank JSC including: 1.52% 887 28,264 TBC Leasing JSC 0.39% 9 56 TBC Kredit LLC 25% 2,865 3,890 United Financial Corporation JSC 1.34% 50 436 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2016: Total comprehensive Current Non-current Current Non-current Profit income In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue loss expense Cash flows TBC Bank JSC 5,492,825 5,268,934 7,105,314 2,084,656 679,912 302,491 303,031 224,421 TBC Leasing JSC 71,484 49,140 54,930 51,283 11,566 2,316 2,316 5,425 TBC Kredit LLC 20,649 19,458 16,034 17,867 8,367 11,461 11,461 4,291 United Financial Corporation JSC 9,271 5,800 9,114 45 11,979 3,737 3,737 1,243 284 284 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 40.
OFFSETTING FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES As of 31 December 2018, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master netting and similar Gross amounts arrangements not set off in the Gross amounts set off in the Net amount after statement of financial position before offsetting statement offsetting in the in the statement of of financial statement of Financial Cash collateral Net amount of financial position position financial position instruments received exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a - b d e c - d - e ASSETS Other financial assets: - Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 17,544 3,154 14,390 - - 14,390 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 17,544 3,154 14,390 - - 14,390 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: - Payables on credit card services and money transfers 21,426 3,154 18,272 - - 18,272 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 21,426 3,154 18,272 - - 18,272 As of 31 December 2017, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master netting and similar Gross amounts arrangements not set off in the Gross amounts set off in the Net amount after statement of financial position before offsetting statement offsetting in the in the statement of of financial statement of Financial Cash collateral Net amount of financial position position financial position instruments received exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a - b d e c - d - e ASSETS Other financial assets: - Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 29,308 2,605 26,703 - - 26,703 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 29,308 2,605 26,703 - - 26,703 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: - Payables on credit card services and money transfers 12,964 2,605 10,359 - - 10,359 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 12,964 2,605 10,359 - - 10,359 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 285 285 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 40.
OFFSETTING FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTINUED As of 31 December 2017, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master netting and similar Gross amounts arrangements not set off in the Gross amounts set off in the Net amount after statement of financial position before offsetting statement offsetting in the in the statement of of financial statement of Financial Cash collateral Net amount of financial position position financial position instruments received exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a - b d e c - d - e ASSETS Other financial assets: - Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 26,959 2,158 24,801 - - 24,801 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 26,959 2,158 24,801 - - 24,801 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: - Payables on credit card services and money transfers 14,563 2,158 12,405 - - 12,405 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 14,563 2,158 12,405 - - 12,405 The amount set off in the statement of financial position reported in column b is the lower of i the gross amount before offsetting reported in column a and ii the amount of the related instrument that is eligible for offsetting.
Similarly, the amounts in columns d and e are limited to the exposure reported in column c for each individual instrument in order not to understate the ultimate net exposure.
Deposits placed with other banks and deposits received from other banks as part of gross settled currency swap arrangements have been netted-off in these financial statements and the instrument has been presented as either asset or liability at a fair value.
The disclosure does not apply to loans and advances to customers and related customer deposits unless they are netted-off in the statement of financial position.
286 286 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 41.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In the normal course of business, the Group enters into various derivative financial instruments, to manage currency, liquidity and interest rate risks and for trading purposes.
In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Fair value of gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial assets or due from banks 1,490 1,767 508 Fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial liabilities 2,085 909 320 Fair value of Interest rate swaps, included in other financial liabilities - 267 1,055 Total 595 591 867 Foreign Exchange Forwards and gross settled currency swaps.
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments the Group entered are generally traded in an over-the-counter market with professional counterparties on standardised contractual terms and conditions.
Derivatives have potentially favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities conditions as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other variables relative to their terms.
The aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
The table below sets out fair values, at the balance sheet date, of currencies receivable or payable under foreign exchange forwards contracts and gross settled currency swaps the Group entered.
The table reflects gross positions before the netting of any counterparty positions and payments and covers the contracts with settlement dates after the respective balance sheet date.
The contracts are short term by their nature.
2018 2017 2016 Contracts with Contracts with Contracts with Contracts with Contracts with positive fair negative fair Contracts with negative fair positive fair negative fair In thousands of GEL value value positive fair value value value value Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps: fair values, at the balance sheet date, of - USD payable on settlement - - 19,631 - 166,326 - 13,125 - USD receivable on settlement 105,753 - 12,877 - 4,220 - - GEL payable on settlement - - 119,520 - 1,360 - 1,604 - GEL receivable on settlement 442,831 - 165,881 - 10,998 - - EUR payable on settlement - - 441,617 - 9,315 - 3,214 - EUR receivable on settlement 32,052 - - - 3,201 - - Other payable on settlement - - 1,621 - 2,247 - 2,150 - Other receivable on settlement 1,158 - 1,348 - 1,862 - Fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps 581,794 582,389 180,106 179,248 20,281 20,093 Net fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps 595 858 188 Interest rate swaps.
In March 2010 TBC Bank entered into an interest rate swap agreement, to hedge floating interest rate on its subordinated debt.
The hedge covers the payment of floating rate interest payments with the notional principal of USD 44,000 thousand.
The swap expired in November 2018.
At the reporting date in 2017 the fair value of interest rate swaps was negative GEL 267 thousand: 2016: negative GEL 1,055 thousand.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 287 287 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES a Recurring fair value measurements.
Recurring fair value measurements are those that the accounting standards require or permit in the statement of financial position at the end of each reporting period.
The level in the fair value hierarchy into which the recurring fair value measurements are categorised as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 In thousands of GEL Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL ASSETS Investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income - Government notes - - - - - - - - - 1,016 - 1,016 - Certificates of Deposits of National Bank of Georgia - 14,982 - 14,982 - 7,728 - 7,728 - 36,002 - 36,002 - Corporate bonds - 548,864 - 548,864 - 328,761 - 328,761 - 150,073 - 150,073 Netherlands Government Bonds - 66,760 - 66,760 - - - - - - - - Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills - 372,927 - 372,927 - 319,745 - 319,745 - 241,810 - 241,810 Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial assets or due from banks - 1,490 - 1,490 - 1,767 - 1,767 - 508 - 508 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS - Premises and leasehold improvements - - 277,798 277,798 - - 283,905 283,905 - - 229,549 229,549 TOTAL ASSETS RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS - 1,005,023 277,798 1,282,821 - 658,001 283,905 941,906 - 429,409 229,549 658,958 LIABILITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES - Interest rate swaps included in other financial liabilities - - - - - 267 - 267 - 1,055 - 1,055 Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial liabilities - 2,085 - 2,085 - 909 - 909 - 320 - 320 TOTAL LIABILITIES RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS - 2,085 - 2,085 - 1,176 - 1,176 - 1,375 - 1,375 288 288 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 42.
FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES CONTINUED There were no transfers between levels 1 and 2 during the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: none, 2016: none.
a Recurring fair value measurements continued.
The description of the valuation technique and the description of inputs used in the fair value measurement for level 2 measurements: Fair value at 31 December In thousands of GEL 2018 2017 2016 Valuation technique Inputs used ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL ASSETS Certificates of Deposits of NBG, Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills, Government Discounted cash flows Government bonds notes, Corporate bonds 1,003,533 656,234 428,901 DCF yield curve Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in due Forward pricing using present Official exchange from banks 1,490 1,767 508 value calculations rate, risk-free rate TOTAL ASSETS RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 1,005,023 658,001 429,409 LIABILITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities - Interest rate swaps included in other Swap model using present Observable yield financial liabilities - 267 1,055 value calculations curves - Foreign exchange forwards included in Forward pricing using present Official exchange other financial liabilities 2,085 909 320 value calculations rate, risk-free rate TOTAL RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AT LEVEL 2 2,085 1,176 1,375 There were no changes in the valuation technique for the level 2 and level 3 recurring fair value measurements during the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: none: 2016: none.
Fair value measurement analysis by level in the fair value hierarchy is disclosed in Note 2.
For details the techniques and inputs used for Level 3 recurring fair value measurement of as well as reconciliation of movements in premises refer to Note 15.
The unobservable input to which the fair value estimate for premises is most sensitive is price per square meter: the higher the price per square meter, the higher the fair value.
TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 289 289 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 42.
FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES CONTINUED b Assets and liabilities not measured at fair value but for which fair value is disclosed.
The fair value of unquoted fixed interest rate instruments was calculated based on estimated future cash flows expected to be received discounted at current interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The fair value of investment properties was estimated using market comparatives refer to Note 3.
Amounts due to credit institutions were discounted at the Groups own incremental borrowing rate.
Liabilities due on demand were discounted from the first date that the Group could be required to pay the amount.
There were no changes in the valuation technique for the level 2 and level 3 measurements of assets and liabilities not measured at fair values in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: none: 2016: none.
290 290 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 43.
PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY For the measurement purposes, IFRS 9, classifies financial assets into the categories discussed in Note 4.
The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2018: Fair value through other Fair value through In thousands of GEL Amortised cost comprehensive income profit or loss Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 1,166,911 - - 1,166,911 Due from other banks 47,316 - - 47,316 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 1,422,809 - - 1,422,809 Loans and advances to customers 10,038,452 - - 10,038,452 Investment securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income - 1,005,239 - 1,005,239 Bonds carried at amortised cost 654,203 - - 654,203 Other financial assets 167,518 - - 167,518 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO IFRS 9 MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES 13,497,209 1,005,239 - 14,502,448 INVESTMENTS IN LEASES - - - 203,802 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS - - - 791,743 TOTAL ASSETS - - - 15,497,993 For the periods before 1 January 2018: for the measurement purposes, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition of Measurement, classifies financial assets into the following categories: a loans and receivables: b available for sale financial assets: c financial assets held to maturity and d financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss have two subcategories: i assets designated as such upon initial recognition, and ii those classified as held for trading.
In addition, finance lease receivables form a separate category.
The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2017: Loans and Available for Finance lease Assets held In thousands of GEL receivables sale assets receivables for trading Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 - - - 1,431,477 Due from other banks 39,643 - - - 39,643 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 - - - 1,033,818 Loans and advances to customers 8,325,353 - - - 8,325,353 Investment securities available for sale - 657,938 - - 657,938 Bonds carried at amortised cost 449,538 - - - 449,538 Investments in leases - - 143,836 - 143,836 Other financial assets: - Other financial receivables 144,377 - - 1,767 146,144 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 11,424,206 657,938 143,836 1,767 12,227,747 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS - - - - 738,163 TOTAL ASSETS - - - - 12,965,910 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 291 291 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 43.
PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY MEASUREMENT CATEGORY CONTINUED The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2016: Loans and Available for Finance lease Assets held In thousands of GEL receivables sale assets receivables for trading Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 945,180 - - - 945,180 Due from other banks 24,725 - - - 24,725 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 990,642 - - - 990,642 Loans and advances to customers 7,133,702 - - - 7,133,702 Investment securities available for sale - 430,703 - - 430,703 Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,956 - - - 372,956 Investments in leases - - 95,031 - 95,031 Other financial assets: - Other financial receivables 94,119 - - 508 94,627 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 9,561,324 430,703 95,031 508 10,087,566 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS - - - - 681,466 TOTAL ASSETS - - - - 10,769,032 As of 31 December 2018 all of the Groups financial liabilities except for derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
Derivatives belong to the assets fair value through profit or loss measurement category under IFRS 9.
As of 31 December 2017 and 2016, all of the Groups financial liabilities except for derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
Derivatives belong to the assets held for trading measurement category under IAS 39.
292 292 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 44.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Pursuant to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, parties are generally considered to be related if the parties are under common control or one party has the ability to control the other or it can exercise significant influence over the other party in taking financial or operational decisions.
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form: Parties with more than 10% of ownership stake in the TBCG or with representatives in the Board of Directors are considered as Significant Shareholders: The key management personnel include members of TBCGs Board of Directors, the Management Board of the Bank and their close family members.
Transactions between TBC Bank Group PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group Financial Statements.
The definition of the related party is different per standards of National Bank of Georgia and is regulated by the published 7 Decree N 26 04 of the Governor of the National Bank of Georgia link to the document below in the footnote As of 31 December 2018, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 0.4% 48.0% 1,614 11,407 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers - 9 Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 0.0% 10.2 % 27,095 21,328 Guarantees 10,216 - Provision on guarantees 36 - The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2018 were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Interest income - loans and advances to customers 22 591 Interest expense 411 301 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 479 65 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 28 352 Fee and commission income 87 50 Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 89 297 The aggregate loan amounts advanced to, and repaid, by related parties during 2018 were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 2,465 13,547 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 1,055 10,195 7 https: www.
ge uploads legalacts fts eng regulation on the management of the conflict of interests.
pdf TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 293 293 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 44.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED During the year 2018, 7 related parties were removed from the insider list.
If they had remained in the list, customer accounts with related parties as of 31 December 2018 would have been GEL 227 thousand higher.
As of 31 December 2018, transactions and balances of TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank were as follows: In thousands of GEL Balance as of 31 December 2018 Due from other banks contractual interest rate: 8.05%-9.03% 79,135 Cash and cash equivalents 2,176 Investment in subsidiary 1,465,345 Included in Investments in subsidiary in Separate Statement of Financial Position GEL 7,823 thousands relates to investment in JSC TBC Insurance.
The income and expense items for TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank except from key management compensation for the year 2018 were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2018 Interest income 5,879 Fee and commission expense 3 Dividend income 124,561 As of 31 December 2017, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 0.4% - 36.0% 154 7,112 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers - 11 Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 0.0% 11.8 % 40,100 11,190 Guarantees 9,901 512 Provision on guarantees 30 2 The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2017 were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Interest income - loans and advances to customers 20 444 Interest income - available securities for sale 747 - Interest expense 928 449 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 108 56 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 46 36 Fee and commission income 122 94 Fee and commission expense 104 - Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 58 239 Net loss on derivative financial instruments 46 - The aggregate loan amounts advanced to, and repaid, by related parties during 2017 were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 573 3,012 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 1,293 3,920 294 294 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 44.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED During the year 2017, 13 related parties were removed from the insider list.
If they had remained in the list, guarantees with related parties as of 31 December 2017 would have been GEL 1,139 thousand higher, net assets with related parties as of 31 December 2017 would have been GEL 214,767 thousand lower.
As of 31 December 2017, transactions and balances of TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank were as follows: In thousands of GEL Balance as of 31 December 2017 Loans and advances to customers 24,000 Due from other banks 11,564 Cash and cash equivalents 57 Investment in subsidiary 1,422,462 Included in Investments in subsidiary in Separate Statement of Financial Position GEL 7,023 thousands relates to investment in JSC TBC Insurance.
The income and expense items for TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank except from key management compensation for the year 2017 were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 Interest income 1,807 Interest expense 9 Fee and commission expense 90,552 As of 31 December 2016, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: In thousands of GEL Note Significant shareholders Key management personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 6.3% - 20.0% 900 7,612 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers 2 26 Derivative financial liability 41 1,055 - Due to credit institutions contractual interest rate: 5.7% 9.7 % 257,403 - Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 0.0% 13.5 % 38,982 14,548 Guarantees 28,509 - Provision on guarantees 192 - The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2016 were as follows: In thousands of GEL Note Significant shareholders Key management personnel Interest income 161 399 Interest expense 17,435 503 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 115 18 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 170 465 Fee and commission income 69 13 Fee and commission expense 580 - Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 1 155 Net loss on derivative financial instruments 41 206 - TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 295 295 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 44.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED As of 31 December 2016, other rights and obligations with related parties were as follows: In thousands of GEL Significant shareholders Key management personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 3,713 10,568 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 5,994 5,722 As of 31 December 2016, transactions and balances of TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank were as follows: In thousands of GEL Balance as of 31 December 2016 Gross amount of loans and advances granted to subsidiary 2,000 Customer accounts placed in subsidiary 2,320 Placement of cash in subsidiary 399 Investment in subsidiary 1,417,043 Included in Investments in subsidiary in Separate Statement of Financial Position GEL 7,023 thousands relates to investment in JSC TBC Insurance.
The income and expense items for TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank except from key management compensation for the year 2016 were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2016 Interest income 1,149 Interest expense 32 Fee and commission expense 1 The compensation of the TBCG Board of Directors and the Banks Management Board is presented below: 2018 2017 2016 Accrued Accrued Accrued In thousands of GEL Expense liability Expense liability Expense liability Salaries and bonuses 12,481 270 13,339 - 12,323 - Cash settled bonuses related to share-based compensation 6,424 8,395 3,905 9,772 7,336 10,715 Equity-settled share-based compensation 9,369 - 8,469 - 9,923 - Total 28,274 8,665 25,713 9,772 29,582 10,715 Included in salaries and bonuses for 2018, GEL 2,347 thousand 2017: GEL 2,326 thousand: 2016: GEL 619 thousand relates to compensation for directors 2018: 8 person, 2017: 8 person, 2016: 8 person of TBCG paid by TBC Bank Group PLC.
45 BUSINESS COMBINATION Acquisition of Bonaco.
On 31 October 2018, the Bank won the auction held by National Bank of Georgia for the acquisition of Bonaco LLC, microfinance organization.
The business process of merger has been finalized in December 2018.
The transaction is in line with Banks strategy to enhance its product offering to its customers.
Bonaco LLC was offering gold pawn and mortgage products to its customers and was added to the respective portfolio for products and services offered to TBC Bank customers.
The acquisition-date fair value of the total purchase consideration and its components are as follows: In thousands of GEL Cash consideration paid 10 Non-cash consideration 14,582 Total purchase consideration 14,592 296 296 TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 45 BUSINESS COMBINATION CONTINUED Acquisition of Bonaco continued.
Non-cash consideration includes the fair value as at acquisition date of the loan issued from the Bank to the Bonaco.
In thousands of GEL Note Provisional Fair Values Cash and cash equivalents 819 Placements with banks 1,581 Loans to customers 20,212 Property and equipment 6,922 Repossessed assets 55 Other assets 156 Amounts due to customers 17,691 Other Liabilities 29 Fair value of acquired interest in net assets of subsidiary 12,025 Goodwill arising from the acquisition 17 2,567 Total purchase consideration 14,592 Less: Non-cash consideration 14,582 Less: cash and cash equivalents of subsidiary acquired 819 Inflow of cash and cash equivalents on acquisition 809 The carrying amount of Loans to customers before fair value adjustments amounted to GEL 19,339 thousand.
Details of the assets and liabilities acquired and goodwill arising is as follows: The goodwill is primarily attributable to the profitability of the acquired business and the significant synergies expected to arise.
The acquired business combination contributed to Groups net revenue in the amount of GEL 212 thousand and to Groups net profit in the amount of GEL 15 thousand from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2018.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1st of January 2018, the contribution to the Groups net revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 would have been of GEL 1,489 thousand and to net profit would have been negative of GEL 11 thousand.
46 EVENTS AFTER REPORTING PERIOD In February 2019 the Bank completed negotiations with National Bank of Georgia regarding their focused inspection carried out in second half of 2018.
The Bank agreed to pay GEL 1,105 thousand and work on restructuring its supervisory board whereby chairman and deputy chairman will need to step down from JSC TBC Bank but will continue to serve as Chairman and Deputy Chairman of TBC Bank Group PLC.
NBG confirmed the joint public statement that the matter has been resolved.
i A full list of related undertakings and the country of incorporation is set out below.
Company Name Country of incorporation JSC TBC Bank 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia United Financial Corporation JSC 154 Agmashenebeli Avenue, 0112, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Capital LLC 11 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Leasing JSC 80 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0162, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Kredit LLC 71-77, 28 May Street, AZ1010, Baku, Azerbaijan Banking System Service Company LLC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Pay LLC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia Real Estate Management Fund JSC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Invest LLC 7 Jabonitsky street, 52520, Tel Aviv, Israel Index LLC 8 Tetelashvili, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia JSC TBC Insurance 24B, Al.
Kazbegi Avenue, 0160, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Invest International Ltd 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia University Development Fund 1 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0128, Tbilisi, Georgia JSC CreditInfo Georgia 2 Tarkhnishvili street, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia LTD Online Tickets 3 Irakli Abashidze street, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia GE Commerce LTD 3 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0128, Tbilisi, Georgia Swoop JSC 74 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0162, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC B TBC BA ANK NK annu annual r al rep epo or rt an t and a d ac cc co ou unts nts 2018 2018 297 297
