NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT The consolidated and parent financial statements have ACCOUNTING POLICIES been prepared under the historical cost convention, except The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of for certain financial assets and financial liabilities including these consolidated and Company financial statements are set derivative instruments, which are held at fair value.
These policies have been consistently applied to all The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of A BASIS OF PREPARATION policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income Both the consolidated and Company financial statements and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions have been prepared and approved by the Directors in are based on historical experience and various other factors accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the the results of which form the basis of making the judgements parent company financial statements here together with the about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies from these estimates.
Act 2006 not to present its income statement and related notes The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the The Groups business activities, together with the factors period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects likely to affect its future development, performance and only that period, or in the period of the revision and future position are set out on pages 419.
The financial position of the periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities The Groups significant judgement areas relate to inventory are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 46. valuation and impairment of assets.
In addition, Note 23 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its REVISED AND AMENDED STANDARDS capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its AND INTERPRETATIONS financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective to credit risk and liquidity risk.
for the first time for the period beginning on or after 29 January As highlighted in Note 23 to the financial statements, the 2017 have had a material impact on the Group or Company.
Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which through a committed overdraft facility expiring in September is effective from 1 January 2018, has been considered by the 2020 which is a multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Group and it was concluded this will not be significant to the Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and HSBC.
The facility will Groups financial statements in the future.
be used to the extent necessary to fund working capital and At the balance sheet date there are a number of new capital expenditure to support the Groups growth strategy.
standards and amendments to existing standards in issue The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account but not yet effective.
None of these is expected to have a reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that significant effect on the financial statements of the Group or the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a consequence Company, except the following, set out below: the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which is effective for periods and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks beginning on or after 1 January 2018, replaces IAS 39 and and to continue in operational existence for the twelve months addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of from the date of signing these financial statements, despite financial assets and financial liabilities.
This was endorsed by the current uncertain global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the EU in November 2016 and as such the full impact on the the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in Group is currently being assessed.
If the Group adopted this preparing the consolidated financial statements.
standard in the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018, the impact of the change in hedge accounting for financial instruments on the consolidated income statement would have been a decrease in profit before tax of 767,000 with no impact on net assets.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 89
