NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT The consolidated and parent financial statements have ACCOUNTING POLICIES been prepared under the historical cost convention, except The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of for certain financial assets and financial liabilities including these consolidated and Company financial statements are set derivative instruments, which are held at fair value.
These policies have been consistently applied to all The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of A BASIS OF PREPARATION policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income Both the consolidated and Company financial statements and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions have been prepared and approved by the Directors in are based on historical experience and various other factors accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the the results of which form the basis of making the judgements parent company financial statements here together with the about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not consolidated financial statements, the Company is taking readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ advantage of the exemption in Section 408 of the Companies from these estimates.
Act 2006 not to present its income statement and related notes The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing that form a part of these approved financial statements.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the The Groups business activities, together with the factors period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects likely to affect its future development, performance and only that period, or in the period of the revision and future position are set out on pages 419.
The financial position of the periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities The Groups significant judgement areas relate to inventory are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 46. valuation and impairment of assets.
In addition, Note 23 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its REVISED AND AMENDED STANDARDS capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its AND INTERPRETATIONS financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective to credit risk and liquidity risk.
for the first time for the period beginning on or after 29 January As highlighted in Note 23 to the financial statements, the 2017 have had a material impact on the Group or Company.
Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which through a committed overdraft facility expiring in September is effective from 1 January 2018, has been considered by the 2020 which is a multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Group and it was concluded this will not be significant to the Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and HSBC.
The facility will Groups financial statements in the future.
be used to the extent necessary to fund working capital and At the balance sheet date there are a number of new capital expenditure to support the Groups growth strategy.
standards and amendments to existing standards in issue The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account but not yet effective.
None of these is expected to have a reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that significant effect on the financial statements of the Group or the Group has sufficient financial resources.
As a consequence Company, except the following, set out below: the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which is effective for periods and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks beginning on or after 1 January 2018, replaces IAS 39 and and to continue in operational existence for the twelve months addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of from the date of signing these financial statements, despite financial assets and financial liabilities.
This was endorsed by the current uncertain global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the EU in November 2016 and as such the full impact on the the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in Group is currently being assessed.
If the Group adopted this preparing the consolidated financial statements.
standard in the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018, the impact of the change in hedge accounting for financial instruments on the consolidated income statement would have been a decrease in profit before tax of 767,000 with no impact on net assets.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 89 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 16, Leases, addresses the definition of a lease, even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a D REVENUE RECOGNITION charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to recognition and measurement of leases and establishes deficit balance.
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods provided in which they relate.
Differences between contributions payable principles for reporting useful information to users of financial Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and in the period and contributions actually paid are shown as statements about the leasing activities of both lessees activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual other sales related taxes.
Retail revenue is recognised when a either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 is that most agreement and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for Group entity sells a product to a customer.
Wholesale revenue operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Jointly controlled is recognised when title has passed in accordance with the G SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17, Leases, and related entities are accounted for using the equity method equity individual terms of trade.
Licence income receivable from The Group operates an equity-settled share-based interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
licensees is accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of compensation plan.
beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The quantitative impact The consolidated financial statements include the Groups the relevant licence agreement, which is typically on the basis of IFRS 16 on the Groups net assets and results is being share of the total recognised income and expense and equity of a minimum payment spread over the licence period and a SHARE OPTIONS AND CONDITIONAL assessed and will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that variable amount based on turnover.
Accrued income is from SHARE AWARDS IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on the balance significant influence or joint control commences until the date licence income earned but not billed in the period.
Share options granted under the Sharesave scheme and the sheet as both assets and liabilities will increase and is also that significant influence or control ceases.
When the Groups The Group sells retail products with the right of return and Ted Baker PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan are measured at expected to have a material impact on key components share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of fair value at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes and within the income statements because operating lease investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and such returns at the time of sale when considered significant.
The pricing models rental charges will be replaced by depreciation and finance recognition of further losses is discounted except to the extent Credit notes or exchanges are available to customers returning take into account the terms and conditions of the options costs.
IFRS 16 will not have any impact on the underlying that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or unwanted products with proof of purchase within 28 days of awards vesting.
The grant date fair value is expensed on a commercial performance of the Group or the cash flow made payments on behalf of an investee.
Cash refunds are available to customers straight-line basis over the vesting period i. e. the period in generated in the period.
returning unwanted products with proof of purchase within 14 which the employees become unconditionally entitled to C FOREIGN CURRENCY days of the date of purchase.
share options awards based on an estimate of shares that will B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the Sales of gift vouchers are treated as future liabilities, and eventually vest.
The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign revenue is recognised when the gift vouchers are redeemed Shares of Ted Baker Plc held by the Company for the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 27 exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of employee share January 2018.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the plans are deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this balance sheet date are translated to functional currency at the E LEASES surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Ted Baker Plc shares method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange Rentals under operating leases are charged as incurred, unless held by the Company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
disposed of in the period are included in the consolidated differences arising on translation are recognised in the income there are pre-determined rental increases in the lease, in which Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee financial statements from the date of acquisition or up to the statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated case they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease Benefit Trusts EBT are treated as being those of the date of disposal.
in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated term.
Leasehold incentives received are recognised as an Company and are therefore reflected in the parent company Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains to functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the integral part of total lease expense, over the term of the lease.
In particular, the EBTs on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
dates the values were determined.
Certain rental expense are determined on the basis of purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction Exchange differences arising from a monetary item revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued credited directly to equity.
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
receivable from or payable to a foreign entity, the settlement for on that basis.
The Group engages in lease and concession Where the Company grants options over its own shares to Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable arrangements that include fixed and variable elements, the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a depending on the terms of the underlying agreement.
The financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in the Group.
foreign operation and are recognised directly in equity in the Group has disclosed in Note 3 the amounts charged in the its subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
period, and in Note 22 sets out the firm commitments for payment charge recognised in its consolidated financial Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including future periods.
statements with the corresponding credit being recognised to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, The Groups intangible assets, as shown in Note 10, include directly in equity.
the ability to affect those returns through its power over the are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling leased premises which have a guaranteed residual value.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of guaranteed value arises because the next tenant, based on H DERIVATIVES potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The foreign operations are translated to Sterling at average current market conditions, will pay this amount to the Group.
The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Due to the likelihood that the money will be recoverable, the its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since asset is not amortised.
are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial are included in the consolidated financial statements from the transition date are recognised directly in a separate recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and the date that control commences until the date that control component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, F PENSION COSTS changes therein are accounted for as described below.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign currency Contributions payable to defined contribution schemes in in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
respect of pension costs and other post retirement benefits are Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 90 91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOW HEDGES I TAXATION L PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Changes in the fair value of foreign currency and interest rate Corporation tax payable is recognised on taxable profits using Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
derivatives which are designated as effective hedges of future tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual cash flows are recognised in equity in the cash flow hedging date.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the balance sheet value, of each asset on the following bases: reserve, and remain there until the forecast transaction occurs.
liability method, on temporary differences arising between the Freehold land: Not depreciated.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in Freehold buildings: Straight line over fifty years.
recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred Straight line over the shorter of the period of the unexpired term of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases the amount tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Leasehold improvements: the improvement.
recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to transaction other than a business combination that at the time 20% to 25% per annum on a straight-line basis apart from computer equipment, which is 33% per annum Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: the income statement in the same period that the hedged item of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit on a straight-line basis or over the expected useful economic life of the asset.
or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is determined using Motor vehicles: 25% per annum on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic life of the asset.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less transfers to completed assets when Assets under construction: hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other tax liability is settled.
carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated comprehensive income remains there until the forecast Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences recoverable amount.
relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives not reverse in the foreseeable future.
which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it accounting are recognised in the income statement.
is probable that future taxable profit will be available against The Group does not hold any fair value hedging which the temporary differences can be utilised.
M IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND asset is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable instruments.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS amount, but so that the increased carrying value does not to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are exceed the carrying value that would have been determined in which case it is recognised in equity.
Income tax comprises reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset in current and deferred tax.
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in J DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount income immediately.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group and Company financial statements in by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its estimated the period in which it is declared.
The recoverable amount is the higher N INVESTMENTS of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Investments in subsidiaries by the Company are shown at cost K INTANGIBLE ASSETS Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on less accumulated impairment losses which are recognised in Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
value in use, which is calculated from cash flow projections the income statement.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product is technically and commercially feasible and the Group using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the intends and has the technical ability and sufficient resources to complete development, future economic benefits are probable results of which are reviewed by the Board.
O INVENTORIES and if the Group can measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.
Development The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are Inventories and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes.
The expenditure those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected and net realisable value.
Cost includes materials, direct labour capitalised includes direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at changes in margins.
Management use a pre-tax discount and inward transportation costs.
Net realisable value is based cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
rate derived from the Groups adjusted weighted average on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Internal forecasts reflect the current market incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for Key money is not amortised but systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date as the Directors are of the opinion assessment and risks specific to the cash-generating units.
obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
the residual value of the asset is in excess of the carrying value.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
P CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and Key money: No amortisation charged.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped money market deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable Computer software: Three to ten years.
at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash Assets under development are stated at cost less transfers to completed assets when substantially all of Computer software under development: cash flows cash-generating units.
Where an impairment management are included as a component of cash and cash the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 92 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Q INTEREST-BEARING BORROWINGS Where any Group company purchases the Companys INVENTORY VALUATION Exceptional items in the period included: Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, The Directors have used their knowledge and experience value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to including any directly incremental costs net of income taxes, of the fashion industry in determining the level and rates of the impairment of assets in three retail stores in the US initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated is deducted from retained earnings in equity attributable to provisioning required to calculate the appropriate inventory and one in Europe.
The Directors believe this to be at amortised cost with any difference between cost and the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled carrying values.
Inventory is carried in the financial statements exceptional as the Group does not frequently impair redemption value being recognised in the income statement or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Sales in the assets of this quantum: over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
any consideration received, net of any directly attributable fashion industry can be extremely volatile with consumer restructuring costs incurred in aligning internal structures incremental transaction costs and the related income tax demand changing significantly based on current trends.
As to the Groups strategic aims.
The Directors believe this to R FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSES effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys a result there is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds its be exceptional due to the infrequent occurrence of such Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings equity holders.
Management calculates the inventory costs: and calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest provision on the basis of the ageing profile of what is in stock.
the release of the provision for the Groups legacy receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign V PROVISIONS Adjustments are made where appropriate based on Directors warehouses following assignment of the leases.
The exchange gains and losses, and gains and losses on hedging A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group knowledge and experience to calculate the appropriate Directors believe this to be exceptional as the initial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a inventory carrying values.
recognition of the cost of provision was treated Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic as exceptional.
accrues, using the effective interest method.
Dividend income benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the X NON-GAAP PERFORMANCE MEASURES is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are discounted Exceptional items are added back deducted to derive certain Exceptional items in the prior period included: right to receive payments is established which in the case of if the impact on the provision is deemed to be material.
non-GAAP measures as follows: quoted securities is usually the ex-dividend date.
costs in relation to the closure of the Groups legacy W ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES profit attributable to the owners of the Company, to arrive warehouses in the UK.
The Directors believe this cost to S SEGMENT REPORTING AND JUDGMENTS at adjusted earnings per share after the tax effect of be infrequent in nature as the Group do not close existing A segment is a component of the Group that engages in The Directors have made significant accounting estimates and exceptional items : and warehouses or move to new warehouses regularly: and business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies in the profit before tax, to arrive at profit before tax and costs in relation to the closure of a concept store in expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to following areas: exceptional items.
The Directors believe this cost to be infrequent transactions with any of the Groups other components.
All in nature as the Group does not open concept operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly IMPAIRMENT Exceptional items are those items which, in the opinion stores frequently.
by the Groups Board to make decisions about resources to Leasehold improvements for stores are identified for further of the Directors, should be excluded in order to provide a be allocated to a segment and assess its performance, and for impairment testing primarily on the basis of current and consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance The Directors believe that the profit before tax and which discrete financial information is available see Note 2. projected performance, with growth assumptions based of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally, exceptional items exceptional items and adjusted earnings per share measures on Directors knowledge and experience.
Given the relative include those items that do not occur often and are material.
provide useful information for shareholders on the underlying T FINANCIAL GUARANTEE CONTRACTS immaturity of the brand outside the UK, the payback period is We believe the non-GAAP performance measures performance of the business.
These measures are also Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts typically longer and it is not uncommon for new stores to make presented along with comparable GAAP measurements consistent with how underlying business performance is to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within losses in their start-up phase.
Judgment is therefore applied is useful to provide information with which to measure our measured internally.
its group, the Company considers these to be insurance by the Directors in assessing the trigger point for impairment, performance, and our ability to invest in new opportunities.
The profit before tax and exceptional items and adjusted arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this recognising that losses in the start-up phase are not always Management uses these measures with the most directly earnings per share are not recognised measures under IFRS respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a indicative of the future performance of a particular store.
The comparable GAAP financial measures in evaluating our and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit and contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that Directors have used forecast models and an appropriate preoperating performance and value creation.
Non-GAAP earnings per share measures used by other companies.
the Company will be required to make a payment under tax adjusted weighted average cost of capital in its property, financial measures should not be considered in isolation Constant currency comparatives are obtained by applying the guarantee.
plant and equipment impairment calculations.
from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented the exchange rates that were applicable for the 52 weeks in compliance with GAAP.
The requirements for identifying ended 28 January 2017 to the financial results in overseas U SHARE CAPITAL exceptional items are on a consistent basis each period and subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018 to remove Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs presented consistently, and a reconciliation of profit before tax the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are and exceptional items to profit before tax is included in Note 3 shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 94 95
