Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures Net asset value return Share price discount to net asset value NAV A measure showing how the net asset value NAV A measure showing the relationship between the per share has performed over a period of time, taking share price and the NAV, which is expressed as a into account both capital returns and dividends paid to percentage of the NAV per share see page 2. shareholders in sterling terms.
To calculate total return, it is assumed that dividends are Gearing net gearing reinvested into the assets of the Company at the prevailing A term used to describe the process of borrowing money NAV on the day that the shares first trade ex-dividend for investment purposes in the expectation that the returns see page 1.
Total return is calculated using published on the investments purchased using the borrowings will daily NAVs.
exceed the costs of those borrowings.
For example, a figure To calculate capital return, revenue earnings are excluded of 5% means that the shareholder funds are exposed to see page 2.
NAV returns by an additional 5%, positive or negative, as a result of borrowings see page 2.
Share price return A measure showing how the share price has performed Ongoing charges ratio over a period of time, taking into account both capital The OCR represents the annualised ongoing charges returns and dividends paid to shareholders in sterling divided by the average daily net asset values of the terms.
Company for the period, and has been prepared in To calculate total return, it is assumed that dividends accordance with the AICs recommended methodology.
are reinvested into the shares of the Company at the prevailing share price on the day that the shares first trade From the year ended 31 March 2012, the ongoing charges ex-dividend see page 1. ratio replaced the total expense ratio.
Prior year numbers have not been restated as the ratios are not materially To calculate capital return, revenue earnings are excluded different see page 2. see page 2.
Gross total return Benchmark return Gross total return is net asset value total return before the The Companys benchmark is the MSCI Emerging deduction of expenses see page 23.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which Excess return should not be taken as wholly representative of the The difference between the gross total return of TEMIT Companys investment universe.
The Companys and the benchmark total return see page 23. investment strategy does not track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Residual A measure representing the difference between the Total return on the benchmark is calculated on a closing actual excess return and the excess return explained market value to closing market value basis, assuming that by the attribution model.
This amount results from all dividends received were reinvested into the shares of the several factors, most significantly the difference between relevant companies at which time the shares were quoted the actual trade price of securities included in actual ex-dividend in sterling terms see page 1. performance and the end of day price used to calculate Capital return on the benchmark is calculated the same attribution see page 23. way as total return, but with no dividend reinvestment see page 2.
Market capitalisation Benchmark performance source: MSCI.
The total market value of a companys shares.
This is calculated by multiplying the share price on a certain date by the number of shares in issue see page 35.
96 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Client Dealer Services freephone 0800 305 306 tel 44 0 20 7073 8690 fax 44 0 20 7073 8701 enquiries@franklintempleton.
co. uk 2018 Franklin Templeton Investments.
