NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 93rd Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 28 March 2019 at 30 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2018.
To declare a final dividend of 20.47 p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Sir Richard Jewson KCVO as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr L R Sherratt as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R E J Wyatt as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the auditor to the Company and to authorise the audit committee to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 9.
That the investment policy of the Company be amended as described in the Overview of Strategy Section of the Annual Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
That in substitution of all existing authorities the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,671,819, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 21 F ebruary 2019 and representing 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company or if changed the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which this resolution is passed, provided that: i t he authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2020 or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii t he said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 52 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8
