STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors con rm that to the best of their knowledge: Report and the financial statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t Company law requires the directors to prepare financial or loss of the Company: and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements in and performance of the business and the position of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Company, together with a description of the principal as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the The UK Corporate Governance Code also requires Directors state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion statements, the directors are required to: on this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual select suitable accounting policies in accordance Report and Accounts ful ls these requirements.
The process with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in by which the Committee has reached these conclusions is Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply set out in the Audit Committees report on pages 2 6 and 2 7. these consistently: As a result, the Board has concluded that the Annual Report present information, including accounting policies, and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, 2018, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable comparable and understandable information: and provides the information necessary for shareholders to provide additional disclosures when compliance with the assess the Companys performance, business model and speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users strategy.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the On behalf of the Board financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which are suf cient to show and explain Arthur Copple the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Chairman accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and 2 1 February 2019 enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8
