NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014, as amended in February 2018, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds unless otherwise indicated.
Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In order better to re ect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Interest income is recognised in line with coupon terms on a time apportioned basis.
Special dividends are credited to capital or revenue according to their circumstances.
Foreign Currency The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The primary objective of the Company is to generate returns in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The liquidity of the Company is managed on a day-to-day basis in Sterling as the Companys performance is evaluated in that currency.
Therefore, the directors consider Pounds Sterling as the currency that most faithfully represents the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and conditions.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities as well as instruments carried at fair value are translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the Statement of Comprehensive Income, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or sales of investments designated as fair value through pro t or loss are expensed to capital in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments held can be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to re ect the directors long term view of the nature of the expected investment returns of the Company.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable pro t for the year.
The taxable pro t differs from pro t before tax as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using a blended rate as applicable throughout the year.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital column.
T TE EM MP PL LE B E BA AR I R IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T T TR RU US ST P T PL LC C 40 40 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 31 D d 31 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 1 8 8
