Investor Information Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Public Limited Company the Company will be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on 12 July 2018 at 12 noon to transact the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 13 to 15 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To declare a dividend of 15.00 pence per share for the year ended 31 March 2018.
To elect Charlie Ricketts as a Director.
To re-elect David Graham as a Director.
To re-elect Paul Manduca as a Director.
To re-elect Beatrice Hollond as a Director.
To re-elect Simon Jeffreys as a Director.
To re-elect Gregory E Johnson as a Director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to act until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which audited accounts are laid before the members.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Th at, in substitution for any existing authority, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act pursuant to Section 551 of the Act, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,354,093 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2018, being the latest practicable date before the date of this notice, provided that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019 save that the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
Th at, in substitution for any existing authority, subject to the passing of resolution 12, the Directors be given the general power to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12, and or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to Section 727 of the Act, in each case as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment and or sale of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,354,093 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued share capital of the Company as at 24 May 2018, being the latest practicable date before the date of this notice.
The power granted by this resolution will expire on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 89
