Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and, where appropriate, International Accounting Standards IAS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014 and updated in February 2018.
At last years AGM, shareholders gave permission for the Company to transfer shares which are bought back into treasury.
The costs of repurchasing shares into treasury, including related costs, are charged to the Capital Reserve.
If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled, the nominal value is transferred out of Equity Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve.
Adoption of new and revised Accounting Standards The following amendments and new IFRSs were adopted for the year ended 31 March 2018: IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative Statement of Cash Flows: IAS 12: Accounting for Uncertainties in Income Taxes: and IFRS 16: Leases.
IAS 7 has introduced a new financing activities reconciliation within the Cash Flow Statement on page 73.
IAS 12 and IFRS 16 have not had an effect on the measurement or disclosure of amounts recognised within the Financial Statements of the Company.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet applicable and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Effective date for accounting periods International Accounting Standards beginning on or after IFRS 9: Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement revised 1 January 2018 IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Annual Improvement Cycle 2015-2017 1 January 2019 The Directors expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have either no impact or that any impact will not be material on the Financial Statements of the Company in future periods.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the measurement at fair value of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore a going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the Companys Financial Statements.
The Going Concern statement is set out on page 52.
74 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Accounting Policies continued All financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised or fide-recognised on the date of the transaction by the use of trade date accounting.
As the Company is a UK investment trust, whose share capital is issued in the UK and denominated in sterling, the Directors consider that the functional currency of the Company is sterling.
There have been no significant judgements, estimates or assumptions for the year.
b Presentation of income statement In order to reflect better the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the income statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented within the income statement.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, net capital profits may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure which the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. c Revenue Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends are recognised on their due date.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the income section of the Income Statement.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in the capital section of the Income Statement.
Special dividends receivable are treated as repayment of capital or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
Interest receivable on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
d Expenses Transaction costs arising on the purchase of investments are included in the capital section of the Income Statement.
All other operating expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue and capital sections of the Income Statement according to the Directors expectation of future returns except as follows: Expenses relating to the disposal of an investment are deducted from the sale proceeds and thus treated as capital.
Details of transaction costs on purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in Note 6: and Expenses are treated as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
With effect from 1 April 2017, 70% of the annual AIFM fee has been allocated to the capital account.
e Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest method in the Income Statement.
Finance costs are charged through the revenue and capital sections of the Income Statement according to the Directors expectations of future returns.
With effect from 1 April 2017, 70% of the finance costs have been allocated to the capital account.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 75 Accounting Policies continued f Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all taxable temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or rights to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
Due to the Companys status as an investment trust company, and its intention to continue to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011, the Company has not provided deferred tax in respect of UK corporation tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
Where appropriate, the Company provides for deferred tax in respect of overseas taxes on any capital gains arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
g Investments held at fair value through profit or loss The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
This portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy, and information about the portfolio is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Directors and other key management personnel.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition, all of the Companys non-current asset investments are designated as being at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value, which is taken to be their cost excluding expenses incidental to the acquisition.
Subsequently, the investments are valued at fair value, which is measured as follows: The fair value of financial instruments at the Balance Sheet date is, ordinarily, based on the latest quoted bid price at, or before, the US market close without deduction for any of the estimated future selling costs, if the instrument is held in active markets.
This represents a Level 1 classification under s48A of IAS 39.
76 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Accounting Policies continued In limited circumstances where the Company deems it appropriate e. g. where significant events have occurred at the Balance Sheet date between the latest quoted bid price in markets which close before the US, and the US market close, resulting in a valuation which is not deemed to be active, the close of market bid price for relevant securities may be adjusted using valuation techniques to calculate a fair value, thus representing a Level 2 type classification.
Note 13 provides further details on the classification of assets as at the Balance Sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the net profit or loss for the period as a capital item in the Income Statement.
h Foreign currencies Transactions involving foreign currencies are translated to sterling the Companys functional currency at the spot exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency gains and losses are included in the Income Statement and allocated as capital or income depending on the nature of the transaction giving rise to the gain or loss.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
j Share capital and reserves Equity Share Capital represents the nominal value of the issued share capital.
Capital Redemption Reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and cancelled.
Capital Reserve gains and losses on realisation of investments: changes in fair value of investments which are readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: changes in the fair value of investments that are not readily convertible to cash, without accepting adverse terms: and the amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value are within this reserve.
Special Distributable Reserve reserve created upon the cancellation of the Share Premium Account and Capital Redemption Reserve.
Purchases of the Companys own shares are also funded from this reserve.
The Companys Articles of Association preclude it from making any distribution of capital profits.
Revenue Reserve represents net income earned that has not been distributed to shareholders.
Income recognised in the Income Statement is allocated to applicable reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 77
