NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in November 2014, as amended in February 2018, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds unless otherwise indicated.
Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In order better to re ect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment has been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a capital gain in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Interest income is recognised in line with coupon terms on a time apportioned basis.
Special dividends are credited to capital or revenue according to their circumstances.
Foreign Currency The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The primary objective of the Company is to generate returns in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The liquidity of the Company is managed on a day-to-day basis in Sterling as the Companys performance is evaluated in that currency.
Therefore, the directors consider Pounds Sterling as the currency that most faithfully represents the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and conditions.
Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities as well as instruments carried at fair value are translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within the Statement of Comprehensive Income, all expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or sales of investments designated as fair value through pro t or loss are expensed to capital in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments held can be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to re ect the directors long term view of the nature of the expected investment returns of the Company.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable pro t for the year.
The taxable pro t differs from pro t before tax as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using a blended rate as applicable throughout the year.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue column of the income statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital column.
T TE EM MP PL LE B E BA AR I R IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T T TR RU US ST P T PL LC C 40 40 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 31 D d 31 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 1 8 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable pro t and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable pro ts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the revenue return of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Investment trusts which have approval under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Irrecoverable withholding tax is recognised on any overseas dividends on an accruals basis using the applicable rate for the country of origin.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Statement of Financial Position when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company will offset financial assets and financial liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and interest and intends to settle on a net basis.
A financial asset is derecognised when the right to receive cash ows from the asset expires or the rights to receive cash ows from the asset have been transferred and a financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The Company classi es its financial assets as subsequently measured at amortised cost or measured at fair value through pro t or loss on the basis of its business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash ow characteristics of the financial asset.
Financial assets are measured at fair value through pro t or loss if its contractual terms do not give rise to cash ows on speci ed dates that are solely payments of principal and interest and at amortised cost if they do.
Receivables Receivables are held to collect contractual cash ows, do not carry any interest, are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The Company has chosen to apply an approach similar to the simpli ed approach for expected credit losses ECL under IFRS 9 to all its receivables.
Therefore the Company does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date.
The Company's approach to ECLs re ects a probability-weighted outcome, based on reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
Investments Investments held at fair value through pro t or loss are initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments are measured at fair value through pro t or loss.
Gains or losses on investments measured at fair value through pro t or loss are included in net pro t or loss as a capital item and transaction costs on acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed.
For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the year-end date.
All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell an asset.
Investments held at fair value through pro t or loss are initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
Investments are held at fair value through pro t or loss as they fail the contractual cash ows test under IFRS 9 so there is no change to comparative gures as investments were historically held at fair value through pro t or loss under IAS 39.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Interest bearing borrowings Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stock and loans issued by the Company, are initially recognised at a carrying value equivalent to the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of the debenture stock is determined by reference to quoted market mid prices at close of business on the year-end date, while the fair value of private placement loans is determined using discounted cash ow techniques which utilise inputs including interest rates obtained from comparable loans in the market.
Payables Payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
T TE EM MP PL LE B E BA AR I R IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T T TR RU US ST P T PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 31 D d 31 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 1 8 8 41 41
