NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Equity dividends payable Equity dividends payable are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
For interim dividends this is when they are paid and for final dividends this is when they are approved by shareholders.
Finance costs Interest payable on the debenture stock and loans in issue is accrued on the effective interest rate basis.
In accordance with the expected long term division of returns, 40% of the interest for the year is charged to revenue, and the other 60% is charged to capital.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of asset on the Statement of Financial Position comprise cash at bank and in hand and deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value of these assets approximates their fair value.
2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Companys financial statements requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts recognised in the financial statements and disclosure of contingent liabilities.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that could require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in future periods.
There have been no judgements, estimates or assumptions which have had a signi cant impact on the financial statements for the current or preceding financial year.
3 ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In the current period the Company has adopted IFRS 9 Financial Instruments on its effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and introduces new requirements for classi cation and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is not applicable to items that have already been derecognised at 1 January 2018, the date of initial application.
Receivables that were previously measured at amortised cost under IAS 39 are held to collect contractual cash ows and give rise to cash ows representing solely payments of principal and interest.
Therefore, such instruments continue to be measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
The classi cation of financial liabilities under IFRS 9 remains broadly the same as under IAS 39.
The main impact on measurement from the classi cation of liabilities under IFRS 9 relates to the element of gains or losses for financial liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss attributable to changes in credit risk.
The Company has not designated any financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss therefore this requirement has not had an impact on the Company.
IFRS 9 requires the Company to record expected credit losses on all of its receivables, either on a 12 month o r lifetime basis.
As the Company has limited exposure to credit risk, this amendment has not had a material impact on the financial statements as the Company only holds receivables with no nancing component that have maturities of 12 months or less.
This requirement has not signi cantly changed the carrying amounts of the Companys financial assets under IFRS 9.
Comparative gures for the year ended 31 December 2017 have not been restated and are still accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Company adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on its effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
In addition, guidance on interest and dividend income have been moved from IAS 18 to IFRS 9 without signi cant changes to the requirements.
Therefore, there was no impact of adopting IFRS 15 for the Company.
Standards issued but not yet effective There are no standards or amendments to standards not yet effective that are relevant to the Company and should be disclosed.
T TE EM MP PL LE B E BA AR I R IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T T TR RU US ST P T PL LC C 42 42 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 31 D d 31 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 1 8 8
