Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12 Related party transactions The Directors consider that, under the classification of related party transactions outlined in the Association of Investment Companies SORP, issued November 2014 and updated in February 2018, Franklin Templeton entities are not classified as related parties under IAS 24 as adopted by the EU.
Accordingly there were no transactions with related parties, other than the fees paid to the Directors during the year ended 31 March 2018, which have a material effect on the results or the financial position of the Company.
13 Risk management In pursuing the Company Objective, set out on page 8 of this Annual Report, the Company holds a number of financial instruments which are exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market risk which comprises market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks, and the methods used to measure the risk, are set out below.
These policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which these financial statements relate.
Investment and concentration risk The Company may invest a greater portion of its assets than the benchmark in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry group than other types of fund investments.
As a result, there is the potential for increased concentration of exposure to economic, business, political or other changes affecting similar issues or securities, which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
Market price risk Market risk arises mainly from uncertainties about future prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss that the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
The Directors meet quarterly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the risk associated with particular countries or industry sectors whilst continuing to follow the investment objectives.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selected in accordance with the overall asset allocation parameters described above, and seeks to ensure that individual stocks also meet the risk reward profile on an ongoing basis.
The Company does not use derivative instruments to hedge the investment portfolio against market price risk as, in the Investment Managers opinion, the cost of such a process could result in an unacceptable level of cost and or a reduction in the potential for capital growth.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 83
