STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Through a professional adviser Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all the companies in the market and can help you nd an investment that suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
You can nd an adviser at www.
co. uk You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth managers and banks.
To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
uk ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS AIFM DIRECTIVE In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM, Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, is required to be made available to investors.
In accordance with the Directive, the AIFM remuneration policy is available at www.
com or from the Company Secretary on request see contact details on page 5 8 and the numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of the AIFMs relevant reporting period year ended 31 March 2018 are also available at www.
Leverage For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels at 31 December 2018 are shown below: Gross Commitment Leverage Exposure method method Maximum limit 250% 200% Actual 122% 127% Remuneration The table below, as provided by the AIFM, shows the total amount of remuneration paid by the AIFM to its staff for the financial year ending 31 March 2018, split into xed and variable remuneration, and showing the number of bene ciaries.
No performance fees or any other type of remuneration was paid directly by the Fund.
IFM does not directly employ staff.
The table below shows, for the same period, the aggregate amount of remuneration paid to Identi ed Code Staff in respect of activities related to the AIFM and the Fund.
Identi ed Code Staff are staff and other individuals identi ed by the AIFM whose activities have a material impact on the risk pro le of the AIFM or the Fund.
This table excludes Identi ed Code Staff activities subject to a delegation agreement.
Aggregate Remuneration 163,276 Senior Management 159,940 Other individuals with material impact 3,336 Number of Staff 9 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 57
