Financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Provision of services Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service is General information provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the terms Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated of the contract.
and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only the Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City AL7 1GA, UK.
commission income is included within revenue.
The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group Financial services are those of retailing and retail banking.
Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision of retail banking and insurance.
Basis of preparation The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
endorsed by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer loyalty Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment and programmes and pension assets that have been measured at fair value.
ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate is rendered.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The Group generates commission from the sale and service of motor and preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained within the home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting Limited, or in going concern statement included in the Directors report on page 66. a minority of cases by a third-party underwriter.
This is based on commission rates, which are independent of the profitability of underlying insurance The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
white label insurance products underwritten by other third-party providers.
Basis of consolidation Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 prior The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the financial year 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017.
For the UK and the Republic fair value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via of Ireland UK & ROI, the results are for the 52 weeks ended 24 February Clubcard deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rates.
2018 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017.
For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year ended 28 February 2018 Rental income prior calendar year ended 28 February 2017.
Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, in accordance with the terms of the lease.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from Commercial income the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, promotional and marketing Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and allowances and various other fees and discounts are received in connection expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing with the purchase of goods for resale from those suppliers.
Most of the the consolidated financial statements.
income received from suppliers relates to adjustments to a core cost price Joint ventures and associates of a product, and as such is considered part of the purchase price for that The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is included product.
Sometimes receipt of the income is conditional on the Group in the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive performing specified actions or satisfying certain performance conditions income loss using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint associated with the purchase of the product.
These include achieving agreed ventures and associates are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus purchases or sales volume targets and providing promotional or marketing post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity, materials and activities or promotional product positioning.
While there is no less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in joint standard industry definition, these amounts receivable from suppliers ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
in connection with the purchase of goods for resale are generally termed commercial income.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not Commercial income is recognised when earned by the Group, which occurs recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made when all obligations conditional for earning income have been discharged, payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Dividends received and the income can be measured reliably based on the terms of the from joint ventures or associates with nil carrying value are recognised in the contract.
The income is recognised as a credit within cost of sales.
Where income statement as part of the Groups share of post-tax profits losses the income earned relates to inventories which are held by the Group at of joint ventures and associates.
period ends, the income is included within the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost of sales upon sale of those inventories.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Amounts due relating to commercial income are recognised within trade and other receivables, except in cases where the Group currently has a legally Revenue enforceable right of set-off and intends to offset amounts due from suppliers Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or against amounts owed to those suppliers, in which case only the net amount receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the receivable or payable is recognised.
Accrued commercial income is recognised Groups activities.
within accrued income when commercial income earned has not been Sale of goods invoiced at the balance sheet date.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 79 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Property, plant and equipment Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated continued depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Property, plant and Finance income equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to its residual value over Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, its anticipated useful economic life.
is recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest rate method.
The following depreciation rates are applied for the Group: Finance costs freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired at Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of 2.5% of cost: qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: and borrowing costs are recognised in the Group income statement in finance fixtures and fittings, office equipment and motor vehicles at rates varying costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which from 10% to 33%.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial liabilities is determined Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over the term of Business combinations and goodwill the relevant lease.
The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the acquisition Impairment of non-financial assets method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair values.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of Non-controlling interests are stated at the non-controlling interests disposal, and value in use.
When the recoverable amount of the cashproportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, or associate and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing where there If the consideration is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net are indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity i. e. a bargain amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the purchase, the difference is credited to the Group income statement in the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that period of acquisition.
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level at of disposal.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of profit or loss on disposal.
the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of Where the Group obtains control of a joint venture or associate, the the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity is remeasured to its not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cash-generating in the Group income statement.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as a credit to the Group income statement.
Cloud software licence agreements Licence agreements to use cloud software are treated as service contracts Investment property and expensed in the Group income statement, unless the Group has both Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated a contractual right to take possession of the software at any time without depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation significant penalty, and the ability to run the software independently of the policies for investment property are consistent with those described for host vendor.
In such cases the licence agreement is capitalised as software property, plant and equipment.
Short-term and other investments Intangible assets Short-term and other investments in the Group balance sheet comprise Intangible assets, such as software and pharmacy licences, are measured receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
initially at acquisition cost or costs incurred to develop the asset.
Intangible Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite useful lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment Inventories losses.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated Inventories comprise goods and development properties held for resale.
useful lives, at 10%25% of cost per annum.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell using the weighted average cost basis.
Directly attributable costs and Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure incomes including applicable commercial income are included in the cost incurred on an individual project is capitalised only if specific criteria of inventories.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet consist of cash at bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to banks, certificates of deposits and other receivables together with short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Taxation Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates The tax expense included in the Group income statement consists of continued current and deferred tax.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale financial year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the Group income statement except the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss or directly in the Group statement of Discontinued operations changes in equity, in which case it is recognised in the Group statement In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and of comprehensive income loss or directly in the Group statement of Discontinued Operations, the net results of discontinued operations are changes in equity, respectively.
presented separately in the Group income statement and the comparatives restated and the assets and liabilities of these operations are presented Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing separately in the Group balance sheet.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax All other leases are classified as operating leases.
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Group income statement, The Group as a lessor except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to the Group Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables statement of changes in equity or the Group statement of comprehensive at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income loss, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant or other comprehensive income, respectively.
periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the term of the lease.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group as a lessee Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets liability is included in the Group balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when there of the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the is a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against current remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the Group taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Group income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of Tax provisions are recognised for uncertain tax positions where a risk the lease.
of an additional tax liability has been identified and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that tax.
Measurement is dependent on Sale and leaseback managements expectation of the outcome of decisions by tax authorities A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset and in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
This is assessed immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease with on a case by case basis using in-house tax experts, professional firms and the buyer.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred and Foreign currencies amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss from the which is the ultimate Parent Companys functional currency.
sale is recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency Post-employment obligations at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign value using the projected unit credit method while plan assets are recorded currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at the rates prevailing at fair value.
on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recognised in the Group The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately income statement in the period in which they arise, apart from exchange in the Group income statement: service costs are spread systematically over differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency the expected service lives of employees and financing costs are recognised risks, and exchange differences on monetary items forming part of the net in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised investment in a foreign operation.
immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense into Pounds Sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses are translated at average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Share-based payments Group statement of comprehensive income loss and are included in the The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant date Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is charged income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
to the Group income statement over the vesting period.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 81 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Interest-bearing borrowings continued Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial Financial instruments recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group balance with any difference between proceeds and redemption value being sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of recognised in the Group income statement over the period of the the instrument.
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Trade receivables Trade payables Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially at value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective method, less provision for impairment.
Investments Equity instruments Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair value.
received, net of direct issue costs.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from operating, income is included in the Group income statement for the period.
Interest financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative calculated using the effective interest rate method is recognised in the financial instruments for trading purposes: however, if derivatives do not Group income statement.
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted for as such.
instrument are recognised in the Group income statement when the Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
entitys right to receive payment is established.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on Loans and advances to customers remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group income statement.
Loans and advances are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required losses.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged basis and is recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment of loans and advances to customers The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans and which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
receivables and carried at amortised cost.
At each balance sheet date, This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting period to assess management reviews the carrying amounts of its loans and advances to whether the hedge remains highly effective.
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one year an impairment loss.
from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or Fair value hedging group of financial assets classified as loans and advances has been incurred, Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when management measures the amount of the loss as the difference between they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group income statement the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Impairment together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually attributable to the hedged risk.
significant and collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
In making collective assessments of impairment, financial assets are grouped Cash flow hedging into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are either Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis using attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, statistical methodology taking into account the level of arrears, security, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
The effective element of any past loss experience, credit quality and defaults based on portfolio trends.
gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised The portfolios include mortgages, credit card receivables, personal current directly in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ comprehensive income and recognised in the Group income statement in materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect Group income statement.
The classification of the effective portion when on customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and recognised in the Group income statement is the same as the classification bankruptcy trends.
Any element of the remeasurement of the Impairment losses are recognised in the Group income statement and the derivative instrument that does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets is reduced is recognised immediately in the Group income statement within finance by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period income or costs.
the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously is sold, terminated or exercised, or if a voluntary fide-designation takes place recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an impairment or it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any loss has been recognised on a financial asset or group of financial assets, cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is interest income is recognised on the carrying amount using the rate of retained in the Group statement of changes in equity until the forecast interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in transaction occurs or the original hedged item affects the Group income measuring impairment.
If a forecast hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group statement of changes in equity is reclassified to the Group income statement.
82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Management exercised judgement in accounting for the Groups acquisition continued of BLT Properties Ltd as an asset acquisition, since substantially all of the purchase price related to the fair value of the seven stores purchased.
Financial instruments continued The sale of shares in BLT Holdings 2010 Ltd was accounted for as a sale Net investment hedging of an investment.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas operation.
Structured entities The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from remeasuring Management has applied judgement in determining whether the Group the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive has control over any structured entities involved in the Groups credit income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group card securitisations and retail property transactions.
Refer to Note 13 income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive for additional disclosures.
income are included in the Group income statement when the foreign Leases operation is disposed of.
Management exercises judgement in determining the classification of Offsetting financial instruments leases as finance or operating leases at inception of the lease.
Management Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the considers the likelihood of exercising break clauses or extension options in Group balance sheet when there is a current legally enforceable right to determining the lease term.
Where the lease term constitutes substantially offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net all of the economic life of the asset, or where the present value of minimum basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
lease payments amount to substantially all of the fair value of the property, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as Provisions operating leases.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount rate that Management further applies judgement in determining the accounting reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the treatment of the sale and leaseback transactions.
Factors considered risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage include the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification of time is recognised as interest expense.
principles described above whether or not the sale was made at the assets fair value and the relationship with the buyer, which is based on levels of control and Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that influence the buyer may be an associate, joint venture or an unrelated party.
the unavoidable costs of meeting or exiting the lease obligations exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Refer to Note 34 for additional disclosures on judgements made relating to operating leases including those arising from sale and leasebacks.
Judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements requires Classification of mall properties management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in applying Management exercises judgement in determining the appropriate the Groups accounting policies to determine the reported amounts of classification of shopping malls as investment properties or property, plant assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated and equipment.
Factors considered in making this determination include the assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors level of services provided to tenants, who manages the mall and any shared that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results facilities, the proportion of sublet space to own-use space and the variability may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions of earnings from the property.
are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions to accounting estimates Determination of cash-generating units applied prospectively.
The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating unit Critical accounting judgements for impairment testing.
Critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that are applied Operating segments in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are discussed below: Management has assessed the retail operations in different countries and Joint ventures and associates determined that they share similar economic characteristics, products, The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements under customers and supply chain operations.
The retail operations have therefore IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
been aggregated in the UK & ROI, Central Europe and Asia segments, in This assessment required the exercise of judgement as set out in Note 13. line with the way they are managed below the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Management has applied judgement in determining that Gain Land Limited Gain Land is an associate of the Group.
The Group has significant influence by Tesco Bank operates in a different industry and reports separately hence virtue of holding a 20% equity interest which presumes significant influence per is a separate segment.
IAS 28, together with having a contractual right to appoint two out of 10 Discontinued operations Directors, while taking into account that the remaining 80% interest is held by Management has applied judgement in presenting the Groups retail one other party.
operations in Turkey as a discontinued operation.
Management consider Equity transactions with joint venture partners the retail operations in Turkey as an operating segment, one level below the During the year the Group unwound its joint venture with British Land Co PLC reportable Retail Central Europe segment.
Management further considered British Land.
As part of the unwind, the Group obtained sole control of BLT previous treatment of similar disposals in China and Korea as discontinued Properties Ltd and seven stores, while British Land obtained sole control of operations.
BLT Holdings 2010 Ltd and two stores.
Alternative performance measures APMs Exceptional items The Group is an equity partner in several joint ventures.
Where the Group Management exercises judgement in determining the adjustments to apply acquires the other partners interests in the joint venture, management to IFRS measurements in order to derive APMs which provide additional applies judgement in determining whether the transaction is accounted useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition.
This assessment covers the nature of the item, cause of occurrence in making this determination include whether the property management and the scale of impact of that item on reported performance.
Reversals services in the joint venture are significant processes, and whether of previous exceptional items are assessed based on the same criteria.
substantially all of the consideration paid relates to the fair value of purchased A breakdown of the exceptional items included in the Group income statement, properties.
For transactions accounted for as business combinations where together with the impact of these items on the Group cash flow statement, the Group leases properties in the joint venture, management further is disclosed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
considers whether increases in valuation of the properties above vacant Refer to pages 150 to 153 for further details on the Groups APMs.
possession value are attributable to the value of the lease contract or reflect residual goodwill.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 83 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates Uncertain tax provisions continued The Group was previously exposed to variability in the resolution of tax exposures relating to Korea.
Since these exposures have been resolved in Key sources of estimation uncertainty the current year, the risk of material adjustment relating to uncertain tax The key assumptions about the future, and other key sources of estimation provisions is viewed as not significant.
uncertainty at the reporting period end that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities Inventories within the next financial year are discussed below: An inventory provision is booked for cases where the realisable value from sale of the inventory is estimated to be lower than the inventory carrying Change in estimate Post-employment benefit obligations value.
Management has estimated the inventory provisioning percentage The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends on for different product categories based on various factors, including the a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number expected sales profiles of the items, the prevailing sales prices, the items of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the net cost income seasonality pattern and expected losses associated with slow-moving for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions inventory items.
will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
Contingent liabilities During the financial year, the Group has taken actuarial advice and decided to Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be change the model used for deriving the discount rate assumption for valuing confirmed only on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future the Tesco PLC Pension Schemes liabilities under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
events outside the Groups control, or present obligations that are not Key assumptions and sensitivities for post-employment benefit obligations recognised because it is not probable that a settlement will be required or are disclosed in Note 27. the value of such a payment cannot be reliably estimated.
The Group does not recognise contingent liabilities but discloses them.
Refer to Note 32 for Impairment the disclosures.
a Impairment of investments Where there are indicators of impairment or reversals of previous Amendments to accounting standards effective for the current year impairment for investments in joint ventures and associates or other The following amendments were adopted in the current year: investments, management performs an impairment test for the investment Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows Disclosure Initiative based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets Key estimates and sensitivities for impairment of investments are disclosed for Unrealised Losses in Note 13.
The adoption of these amendments does not have a material impact on b Impairment of property, plant and equipment, software, the Group financial statements.
Additional disclosures have been given other intangible assets and investment property where relevant.
Where there are indicators of impairment, management performs an impairment test.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are the Standards issued but not yet effective higher of fair value less costs of disposal, and value in use.
Value in use is At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has calculated from cash flow projections based on the Groups three year not applied the following standards that have been issued but are not yet internal forecasts.
The forecasts are extrapolated to five years based on effective.
The Group has not adopted any new or amended standards early.
managements expectations, and beyond five years based on estimated IFRS 9 Financial Instruments long-term growth rates.
Key estimates and sensitivities for impairment IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: of assets are disclosed in Note 11.
Fair value is determined with the Recognition and Measurement with the exception of macro hedge assistance of independent, professional valuers where appropriate.
The standard will be effective in the Group financial statements Commercial income for the 52 weeks ending 23 February 2019.
The Group intends to apply the Management is required to make estimates in determining the amount and classification and measurement and impairment requirements of the timing of recognition of commercial income as defined on page 79 for some standard retrospectively at the transition date of 25 February 2018 by transactions with suppliers.
In determining the amount of volume-related adjusting the opening balance sheet, with no restatement of comparative allowances recognised in any period, management estimate the probability periods.
Hedge accounting relationships within the scope of IFRS 9 will that the Group will meet contractual target volumes, based on historical and transition prospectively.
There is limited estimation involved in recognising The standard covers three elements: income for promotional and other allowances.
Classification and measurement: Changes to a more principle based Management assesses its performance against the obligations conditional approach to classify financial assets as either held at amortised cost, fair on earning the income, with the income recognised either over time as the value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through obligations are met, or recognised at the point when all obligations are met, profit or loss, dependent on the business model and cash flow dependent on the contractual requirements.
Commercial income is characteristics of the financial asset: recognised as a credit within cost of sales.
Where the income earned relates Impairment: Moves to an impairment model based on expected credit to inventories which are held by the Group at period ends, the income losses based on a three stage approach: and is included within the cost of those inventories, and recognised in cost Hedge accounting: The IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements are designed of sales upon sale of those inventories.
Management views that the cost to allow hedge accounting to be more closely aligned with the Groups of inventories sold which is inclusive of commercial income provides underlying risk management.
A new International Accounting Standards a consistent and complete measure of the income statement impact Board IASB project is in progress to develop an approach to better reflect of the overall supplier relationships.
dynamic risk management in entities financial statements.
Management considers the best indicator of the estimation undertaken Classification and measurement: is by reference to commercial income balances not settled at the balance From a review of the Group balance sheet as at 24 February 2018, sheet date and has therefore provided additional disclosures of commercial the Group expects the following classification changes to take place: income amounts reflected in the balance sheet.
Refer to Note 20 for commercial income disclosures.
All financial instruments classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 will be classified and measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9: and Property provisions All financial instruments classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39 Property provisions comprise onerous lease provisions, including leases will be classified and measured at FVOCI under IFRS 9. on unprofitable stores and vacant properties, and other onerous contracts related to property.
These provisions are based on the least net cost of fulfilling or exiting the contract.
Key estimates and sensitivities for property provisions are disclosed in Note 25.
84 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates IFRS 16 is expected to have a significant impact on reported assets, liabilities continued and income statement of the Group, as well as the classification of cash flows relating to lease contracts.
The standard will impact a number of key measures Standards issued but not yet effective continued such as operating profit and cash generated from operations, as well as a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued number of alternative performance measures used by the Group.
Impairment: IFRS 9 requires the Group to recognise expected credit losses ECL at all The Groups IFRS 16 Project is governed by a Steering Committee, which times, and to update the amount of ECL recognised at each reporting date regularly reports progress to the Group Audit Committee.
During the current to reflect changes in the credit risk of financial assets.
The ECL will be reporting period, progress has been made in the collation of the additional measured under the simplified approach, with the exception of loans and lease data required to support IFRS 16 calculations, establishing systems advances to customers, other investments and joint venture loans, where and processes required for accounting and reporting under IFRS 16 and in the three-stage approach will be applied.
determining the appropriate discount rates to apply to lease payments.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are required During the next financial year, the Group will finalise this work and set out to be unbiased, forward-looking and probability-weighted, determined by accounting policies and procedures for leases.
The Group will also establish evaluating at the reporting date for each financial asset a range of possible a process of parallel reporting for the comparative period.
Until the impact outcomes using reasonable and supportable information about past events, assessment is completed, it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate current conditions and forecasts of future events and economic conditions.
of the financial effect of IFRS 16.
The estimation of ECL also takes into account the time value of money.
Other standards and amendments As a result of applying IFRS 9, the impact on opening retained earnings The impacts of the following standards and amendments are still for the year ended 28 February 2019 for Tesco Bank is expected to be a under assessment: reduction of 166m.
This reflects the increase in impairment allowance Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 under the new ECL model, net of deferred tax.
The impact of the new Insurance Contracts impairment requirements on the Retail business is not material.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Hedge accounting: Other changes to standards and amendments issued but not yet effective are The IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements are designed to allow hedge not expected to have a material impact on the Group financial statements.
accounting to be more closely aligned with financial risk management.
A new IFRS is under development to account for dynamic risk management.
As Alternative performance measures APMs permitted under IFRS 9, the Group will elect to continue to apply the existing In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 for its portfolio hedge accounting various APMs.
until this new standard is implemented.
All other existing hedge relationships These measures are not defined by International Financial Reporting will transition to IFRS 9 on adoption.
Standards IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other IFRS 15 Revenues from Contracts with Customers companies APMs, including those in the Groups industry.
IFRS 15 Revenues from Contracts with Customers will be effective in the APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be Group financial statements for the 52 weeks ending 23 February 2019.
The a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
Group intends to adopt the standard retrospectively, with comparatives restated from a transition date of 26 February 2017.
Purpose The Directors believe that these APMs assist in providing additional useful IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity should recognise revenue to depict the transfer APMs are also used to enhance the comparability of information between of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the reporting periods and geographical units such as like-for-like sales, by consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for adjusting for non-recurring or uncontrollable factors which affect IFRS those goods or services.
measures, to aid users in understanding the Groups performance.
The Group recognises revenue from the principal activities of retailing and Consequently, APMs are used by the Directors and management for associated activities and retail banking and insurance services through Tesco performance analysis, planning, reporting and incentive-setting purposes.
For the majority of revenue streams, there is a low level of judgement The key APMs that the Group has focused on in the financial year are applied in determining the consideration or the timing of transfer of control.
as follows: As a result, revenue recognition under IFRS 15 will be largely consistent with current practice.
Group sales: This is the headline measure of revenue for the Group.
It excludes the impact of sales made at petrol filling stations due to the Revenue streams that will be impacted include Clubcard loyalty points, for significant volatility of fuel prices.
This volatility is outside the control which the fair value of consideration will change, and certain of management and can mask underlying changes in performance.
telecommunication contracts and bespoke contracts fulfilled by dunnhumby, Like-for-like sales: This is a widely used indicator of a retailers current for which the timing of revenue recognition will change.
It is a measure of growth in Group online sales and IFRS 15 is not expected to result in a material impact to the Retail business.
sales from stores that have been open for at least a year but excludes The impact for Tesco Bank is still under assessment.
prior year sales of stores closed during the year at constant foreign exchange rates.
IFRS 16 Leases Operating profit before exceptional items: This is the headline measure IFRS 16 Leases will be effective in the Group financial statements for the of the Groups performance, and is based on operating profit before the 53 weeks ending 29 February 2020.
The Group intends to adopt the standard impact of exceptional items.
Exceptional items relate to certain costs or retrospectively, with comparatives restated from a transition date of incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal 25 February 2018. activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to aggregate, are excluded by virtue of their size and nature in order to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases.
reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
Retail operating cash flow: This is the operating cash flow of continuing Under IFRS 16, lessees will be required to remeasure the lease liability upon operations, excluding the effects of Tesco Banks cash flows.
the occurrence of certain events, such as a change in future lease payments Retail free cash flow: Retail free cash flow includes all cash flows from resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those payments.
operating and investing activities for the Retail business, and the market The lessee will generally recognise the amount of the remeasurement of the purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are lease liability as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset.
excluded: investing cash flows that increase decrease items within Net debt, and cash flows from major corporate acquisitions and disposals.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and estimates continued Alternative performance measures APMs continued Purpose continued Net debt: This excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of the discontinued operations to reflect the net debt obligations of the Retail business.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments: This relates to profit after tax before exceptional items from continuing operations, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive share options.
Some of the Groups IFRS measures are translated at constant exchange rates.
Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the previous financial year and are used to eliminate the effects of exchange rate fluctuations in assessing performance.
Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the financial year.
Changes to APMs During the financial year, the following changes have been applied to the Groups APMs: Free cash flow has been redefined to include all cash flows from operating and investing activities, and the market purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are excluded: investing cash flows that increase decrease items within Group net debt, and cash flows from major corporate acquisitions and disposals.
This measure reflects the cash available to shareholders.
Previously, free cash flow only included capital expenditure cash flows within investing activities.
Retail free cash flow is now considered a key APM.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items and net pension finance costs has been replaced with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
Fair value remeasurements are now excluded as they are impacted by changes to credit risk and various market indices, which can fluctuate significantly.
Also included in these items are fair value remeasurements on financial instruments resulting from liability management exercises.
Other earnings per share measures before exceptional items are no longer considered APMs and have been removed.
Total indebtedness ratio and Fixed charge cover have been included as new APMs during the year.
Earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent expense EBITDAR has also been included as it is used to calculate these debt metrics.
Total indebtedness ratio and Fixed charge cover are measures of the Groups ability to meet its payment obligations and are widely used by analysts and credit rating agencies.
Refer to the Glossary pages 150 to 153 for a full list and comprehensive descriptions and purpose of the Groups APMs.
86 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting The Groups operating segments are determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Group Chief Executive, with support from the Executive Committee, as the function primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and assessment of performance of the segments.
In line with changes in management structure reporting to the CODM, the Group has reassessed its reportable segments and determined that the retailing and associated activities previously disclosed within the International segment should be segregated between the Central Europe and Asia segments.
The principal activities of the Group are therefore presented in the following segments: Retailing and associated activities Retail in: UK & ROI the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland: Central Europe Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia: and Asia Malaysia and Thailand.
Retail banking and insurance services through Tesco Bank in the UK Tesco Bank.
This presentation reflects how the Groups operating performance is reviewed internally by management.
Segmental information for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 has been amended accordingly.
The amounts disclosed within the Central Europe and Asia segments total the amounts previously disclosed within the International segment.
Excluded from the segmental information below are the Retail activities of Turkey which have been classified as discontinued operations.
The CODM uses operating profit before exceptional items, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings, as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying performance for the financial year under evaluation.
Operating profit before exceptional items is a consistent measure within the Group as defined within Note 1.
Refer to Note 4 for exceptional items.
Inter-segment revenue between the operating segments is not material.
Income statement The segment results and the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the Group income statement are as follows: Total at Total Central Tesco constant Foreign at actual 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m Continuing operations Group sales 38,522 5,884 4,692 1,051 50,149 842 50,991 Revenue 44,775 6,109 4,692 1,051 56,627 864 57,491 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 1,046 110 282 173 1,611 33 1,644 Exceptional items 141 88 20 24 185 8 193 Operating profit loss 1,187 198 262 149 1,796 41 1,837 Operating margin 2.3% 1.8% 6.0% 16.5% 2.8% 2.9% Total Central Tesco at actual 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations Group sales 38,650 6,343 4,947 1,051 50,991 Revenue 44,908 6,585 4,947 1,051 57,491 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 1,053 119 299 173 1,644 Exceptional items 146 93 22 24 193 Operating profit loss 1,199 212 277 149 1,837 Operating margin 2.3% 1.8% 6.0% 16.5% 2.9% Share of post-tax profits losses of joint ventures and associates 6 Finance income 98 Finance costs 631 Profit loss before tax 1,298 Total Central Tesco at actual 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations Group sales 37,692 5,977 5,186 1,012 49,867 Revenue 43,524 6,195 5,186 1,012 55,917 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 803 58 262 157 1,280 Exceptional items 284 132 31 80 263 Operating profit loss 519 190 231 77 1,017 Operating margin 1.8% 0.9% 5.1% 15.5% 2.3% Share of post-tax profits losses of joint ventures and associates 107 Finance income 109 Finance costs 874 Profit loss before tax 145 Intercompany recharges totalling nil 2017: 2m between continuing operations and the Turkey discontinued operations have been eliminated.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Balance sheet The following tables showing segment assets and liabilities exclude those balances that make up net debt cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, joint venture loans and other receivables, bank and other borrowings, finance lease payables, derivative financial instruments and net debt of the disposal group.
Net debt balances have been included within the unallocated segment to reflect how the Group manages these balances.
Intercompany transactions have been eliminated other than intercompany transactions with Tesco Bank in net debt.
Central Tesco UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank Unallocated Total At 24 February 2018 m m m m m m Goodwill, software and other intangible assets 1,281 36 271 1,073 2,661 Property, plant and equipment and investment property 13,190 2,799 2,564 68 18,621 Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 1 586 90 689 Non-current other investments 3 857 860 a Non-current trade and other receivables 30 6 12 48 Non-current loans and advances to customers 6,885 6,885 Deferred tax assets 19 33 65 117 b Non-current assets 14,535 2,875 3,498 8,973 29,881 c Inventories and current trade and other receivables 2,428 610 398 308 3,744 Current loans and advances to customers 4,637 4,637 Current other investments 68 68 Total trade and other payables 7,241 853 1,028 238 9,360 Total customer deposits and deposits from banks 10,784 10,784 Total provisions 1,034 110 47 77 1,268 Deferred tax liabilities 20 35 32 4 91 Net current tax 263 9 16 35 323 Post-employment benefits 3,261 21 3,282 d Assets of the disposal group and classified as held for sale 95 54 149 d Liabilities of the disposal group e Net debt including Tesco Bank 288 2,625 2,913 Net assets 5,239 2,532 2,752 2,560 2,625 10,458 a Excludes loans to joint ventures of 138m 2017: 137m which form part of net debt.
b Excludes derivative financial instrument non-current assets of 1,117m 2017: 1,303m.
c Excludes net interest and other receivables of 1m 2017: 1m which form part of net debt.
d Excludes net debt of the disposal group of nil 2017: 65 m. Refer to Note 7. e Refer to Note 30.
Central Tesco UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank Unallocated Total At 25 February 2017 m m m m m m Goodwill, software and other intangible assets 1,293 44 278 1,102 2,717 Property, plant and equipment and investment property 12,893 2,613 2,593 73 18,172 Investments in joint ventures and associates 11 1 656 71 739 Non-current other investments 810 13 823 a Non-current trade and other receivables 23 7 13 43 Non-current loans and advances to customers 5,795 5,795 Deferred tax assets 601 23 83 707 b Non-current assets 14,821 2,688 3,623 7,851 13 28,996 c Inventories and current trade and other receivables 2,389 654 394 338 3,775 Current loans and advances to customers 4,166 4,166 Current other investments 156 128 284 Total trade and other payables 7,006 799 1,152 242 9,199 Total customer deposits and deposits from banks 8,963 8,963 Total provisions 914 80 45 84 1,123 Deferred tax liabilities 7 26 41 14 88 Net current tax 579 1 12 8 600 Post-employment benefits 6,600 21 6,621 d Assets of the disposal group and classified as held for sale 100 46 187 333 d Liabilities of the disposal group 95 95 e Net debt including Tesco Bank 722 3,729 4,451 Net assets 2,204 2,482 2,746 2,478 3,496 6,414 a e Refer to previous table for footnotes.
88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Other segment information Total Central Tesco continuing Discontinued UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank operations operations Total 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 940 117 236 7 1,300 1,300 Investment property 1 1 1 Goodwill, software and other intangible assets 141 16 3 43 203 203 Depreciation and amortisation: Property, plant and equipment 686 147 230 12 1,075 1,075 Investment property 1 1 1 Software and other intangible assets 121 18 9 71 219 219 Impairment: Property, plant and equipment loss 50 6 32 88 88 Property, plant and equipment reversal 154 112 9 275 275 Investment property loss 1 1 1 Investment property reversal 3 2 5 5 Goodwill, software and other intangible assets loss 20 8 28 28 Software and other intangible assets reversal 4 4 4 Includes 8m 2017: nil of goodwill, software and other intangible assets acquired through business combinations.
Total Central Tesco continuing Discontinued UK & ROI Europe Asia Bank operations operations Total 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 995 127 259 12 1,393 2 1,395 Investment property Goodwill, software and other intangible assets 111 13 3 34 161 161 Depreciation and amortisation: Property, plant and equipment 687 141 208 17 1,053 5 1,058 Investment property 1 1 1 Software and other intangible assets 117 16 10 101 244 1 245 Impairment: Property, plant and equipment loss 12 121 34 167 106 273 Property, plant and equipment reversal 118 158 3 279 279 Investment property loss 2 1 3 3 Investment property reversal 3 1 4 4 Goodwill, software and other intangible assets loss 54 54 54 Software and other intangible assets reversal 1 1 1 Discontinued operations in this table represents amounts up until the point a disposal group is classified as such.
This comprises those of Turkey in the first four months of the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Cash flow statement The following tables provide further analysis of the Group cash flow statement, including a split of cash flows between Retail and Tesco Bank.
The current years presentation includes additional details on the line items impacted by exceptional items, while removing the analysis between Retail continuing and discontinued operations.
Comparatives for the prior year have been amended accordingly.
Retail Tesco Bank Tesco Group Before Before exceptional Exceptional Retail exceptional Exceptional Tesco Bank items items Total items items Total Total 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 m m m m m m m Operating profit loss of continuing operations 1,471 217 1,688 173 24 149 1,837 Operating profit loss of discontinued operations Depreciation and amortisation 1,212 1,212 83 83 1,295 ATM net income 37 37 37 37 Profit loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment 8 58 66 66 and intangible assets Profit loss arising on sale of subsidiaries and other investments 3 162 165 165 Profit loss arising on sale of joint ventures and associates 7 16 23 23 Net impairment loss reversal on other investments 22 22 22 Net impairment loss reversal on property, plant and equipment, 8 159 167 167 software and other intangible assets and investment property Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge 4 4 4 Additional contribution into pension schemes 245 245 245 Share-based payments 109 109 4 4 113 Tesco Bank fair value movements included in operating profit 156 156 156 Cash flows generated from operations excluding working capital 2,466 178 2,288 453 24 429 2,717 Increase decrease in working capital 499 14 485 110 3 107 592 Cash generated from used in operations 2,965 192 2,773 563 27 536 3,309 Interest paid 347 347 4 4 351 Corporation tax paid received 131 131 45 45 176 Net cash generated from used in operating activities 2,487 192 2,295 514 27 487 2,782 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, 175 78 253 253 investment property, intangible assets and non-current assets classified as held for sale Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment 204 189 393 393 property and non-current assets classified as held for sale store buy backs Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment 1,038 1,038 9 9 1,047 property and non-current assets classified as held for sale other capital expenditure Purchase of intangible assets 152 152 45 45 197 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 66 66 66 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 27 27 27 Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates 4 19 23 23 Investments in joint ventures and associates 6 6 15 15 21 Net investments in proceeds from sale of other investments 34 196 230 6 6 236 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 26 26 26 Dividends received from Tesco Bank 50 50 50 50 Interest received 50 50 50 APM: Free cash flow 1,399 22 1,377 401 27 374 1,751 Net increase decrease in loans to joint ventures and associates Net investments in proceeds from sale of short-term investments 1,697 1,697 1,697 Net cash generated from used in investing activities 609 170 779 113 113 666 Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 11 11 11 Increase in borrowings 13 13 300 300 313 Repayment of borrowings 3,571 3,571 150 150 3,721 Net cash flows from derivative financial instruments 253 253 253 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 10 10 10 Dividends paid to equity holders 82 82 82 Net cash generated from used in financing activities 3,386 3,386 150 150 3,236 Intra-Group funding and intercompany transactions 9 9 9 9 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 281 22 303 542 27 515 212 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,043 789 3,832 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 15 15 Cash and cash equivalents including cash held in disposal 2,755 1,304 4,059 group at the end of the year Cash held in disposal group Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,755 1,304 4,059 APM: Retail operating cash flow of 2,773m 2017: 2,279m is the cash generated from operations of the continuing Retail business.
Included in Retail cash generated from used in operations of 2,773m 2017: 2,278m is nil 2017: 1 m relating to discontinued operations.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Cash flow statement continued Retail Tesco Bank Tesco Group Before Before exceptional Exceptional Retail exceptional Exceptional Tesco Bank items items Total items items Total Total 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 m m m m m m m Operating profit loss of continuing operations 1,123 183 940 157 80 77 1,017 Operating profit loss of discontinued operations 15 102 117 117 Depreciation and amortisation 1,172 14 1,186 95 23 118 1,304 ATM net income 43 43 43 43 Profit loss arising on sale of property, plant and equipment 54 134 80 2 2 78 and intangible assets Profit loss arising on sale of subsidiaries and other investments 7 7 4 4 3 Profit loss arising on sale of joint ventures and associates 5 5 5 Impairment loss on goodwill 46 46 46 Net impairment loss reversal on other investments 12 12 12 Net impairment loss reversal on property, plant and equipment, 10 5 5 5 software and other intangible assets and investment property Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge 7 7 7 Additional contribution into pension schemes 248 248 248 Share-based payments 14 14 1 1 15 Tesco Bank fair value movements included in operating profit 96 2 98 98 Cash flows generated from operations excluding working capital 2,044 354 1,690 390 55 335 2,025 Increase decrease in working capital 379 209 588 77 22 55 533 Cash generated from used in operations 2,423 145 2,278 313 33 280 2,558 Interest paid 518 518 4 4 522 Corporation tax paid received 64 64 17 17 47 Net cash generated from used in operating activities 1,841 145 1,696 326 33 293 1,989 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, 19 490 509 3 3 512 investment property, intangible assets and non-current assets classified as held for sale Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment 365 365 365 property and non-current assets classified as held for sale store buy backs Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment 834 834 6 6 840 property and non-current assets classified as held for sale other capital expenditure Purchase of intangible assets 129 129 40 40 169 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 205 205 205 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 25 25 25 Proceeds from sale of joint ventures and associates Investments in joint ventures and associates Net investments in proceeds from sale of other investments 111 111 30 30 141 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 28 28 28 Dividends received from Tesco Bank 50 50 50 50 Interest received 41 41 41 APM: Free cash flow 942 345 1,287 263 33 230 1,517 Net increase decrease in loans to joint ventures and associates 15 15 15 Net investments in proceeds from sale of short-term investments 736 736 736 Net cash generated from used in investing activities 148 490 342 63 63 279 Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 1 1 1 Increase in borrowings 185 185 185 Repayment of borrowings 2,036 2,036 2,036 Net cash flows from derivative financial instruments 475 475 475 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 12 12 12 Dividends paid to equity owners Net cash generated from used in financing activities 1,387 1,387 1,387 Intra-Group funding and intercompany transactions 5 5 5 5 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 301 345 646 268 33 235 881 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,528 554 3,082 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 131 131 Cash and cash equivalents including cash held in disposal 3,043 789 3,832 group at the end of the year Cash held in disposal group 11 11 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 3,032 789 3,821 APM: Retail operating cash flow of 2,773m 2017: 2,279m is the cash generated from operations of the continuing Retail business.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 3 Income and expenses 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Profit loss before tax is stated after charging crediting the following: Property rental income, of which 34 m 2017: 38 m relates to investment properties 372 358 Other rental income 55 50 Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties 17 20 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 42,297 41,140 Inventory losses and provisions 1,373 1,337 Depreciation and amortisation 1,295 1,298 Operating lease expenses, of which 70m 2017: 84m relates to hire of plant and machinery 1,018 1,043 Net impairment loss reversal on property, plant and equipment and investment property 191 113 Net impairment loss reversal of goodwill, software and other intangible assets 24 53 Auditors remuneration 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements 1.5 1.5 The audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 5.3 4.0 Total audit services 6.8 5.5 Audit-related assurance services 0.5 0.5 Total audit and audit-related services 7.3 6.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Transaction services 1.9 1.9 Taxation advisory services 0.3 All other non-audit services 4.3 3.6 Total non-audit services 6.2 5.8 Total auditors remuneration 13.5 11.8 Other non-audit services of 4.3m 2017: 3.6m represents: retail consultancy services 1.5m 2017: 1.5m, provision of data repository services for information needed by the Group and Serious Fraud Office SFO 1.8m 2017: 1.2m, SFO Monitor role 0.8m 2017: nil, and other 0.2m 2017: 0.9m.
In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditor received fees of 0.2m 2017: 0.2m for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
Additional information on the non-audit services provided by the auditor is provided in the Corporate governance report on page 44, including how objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
Employment costs, including Directors remuneration 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Wages and salaries 6,026 6,051 Social security costs 486 473 Post-employment defined benefits 27 38 35 Post-employment defined contributions 27 316 341 Share-based payments expense 26 252 294 Termination benefits 115 168 Total 7,233 7,362 Includes 99m 2017: 146m of exceptional redundancy costs.
Post-employment defined contribution charges include 108m 2017: 135m of salaries paid as pension contributions.
The table below shows the average number of employees by operating segment during the financial year.
Segmental information has been amended for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017.
Refer to Note 2 for further details.
Average number Average number of of employees full-time equivalents Continuing operations 2018 2017 2018 2017 UK & ROI 324,117 327,601 210,312 218,522 Central Europe 61,623 70,004 59,110 62,657 Asia 59,300 63,037 54,857 58,035 Tesco Bank 3,948 3,878 3,637 3,556 Total 448,988 464,520 327,916 342,770 92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 4 Exceptional items Income statement 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 Profit loss for the year included the following exceptional items: Total exceptional items included Exceptional AdminPropertywithin Share of JV items within Cost of istrative related operating and associates Finance discontinued sales expenses items profit profits losses costs Taxation operations Exceptional items included in: m m m m m m m m a Net restructuring and redundancy costs 75 34 7 102 19 Net impairment reversal of non-current assets 50 3 53 28 b and onerous lease provisions c Provision for customer redress 24 24 3 d Investment disposal 124 124 25 e Disposal of opticians business 38 38 7 Release of amounts provided in relation to DPA 25 25 f and FCA obligations g Property transactions 79 79 32 Foreign exchange losses on GBP short-term 38 h investments held in overseas entities Exceptional items relating to 216 i discontinued operations Total 49 153 89 193 38 20 216 a T his includes 68 m relating to UK & ROI changes to store and call centre colleague structures and working practices and 34 m relating to head office restructuring costs.
b Net impairment reversal of non-current assets includes a net reversal of 185m in property, plant and equipment and investment property, a net charge of 24 m in goodwill, software and other intangible assets and a net charge of 108 m of onerous lease provisions.
Refer to Notes 10, 11, 12 and 25 for further details on impairment and onerous lease provisions.
c T he net charge of 24 m reflects an additional charge of 35 m relating to an update to the Payment Protection Insurance PPI provision ruling during the year, which resulted in the inclusion of items that had previously been out of scope for redress.
This was partially offset by a 1m release of the Consumer Credit Act CCA provision and a 10m credit received following the conclusion of negotiations with a third party in respect of previously recognised customer redress.
d The Group disposed of its remaining 8.8% investment stake in Lazada Group S. A. Lazada for net cash consideration of $254m 196m, generating a profit of 124m.
The tax charge of 25m arises due to a capital gain on the disposal.
e 38m relates to the gain from disposal of the Groups opticians business to Vision Express UK Ltd in UK & ROI.
f The Group had taken a total exceptional charge of 235 m in respect of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement DPA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA obligations, including 85 m for the compensation scheme in the 52 weeks to 25 February 2017.
With the compensation scheme now being closed to new claimants, 25m relating to the compensation scheme was released in the 52 weeks to 24 February 2018. g As part of the Groups strategy to maximise value from property, the Group disposed of surplus properties which generated a profit of 58m.
The Group also recognised a net gain of 21m from the unwind of its joint venture with British Land, whereby the Group purchased seven stores from the joint venture and disposed of its remaining equity interest in the joint venture.
h T he Group was holding proceeds from the sale of the Korea operations in GBP money market funds in an intermediate entity with a Euro functional currency.
38 m loss represents the foreign exchange losses arising on the revaluation of these Sterling-denominated funds into Euros until the repatriation of funds during the 52 weeks to 24 February 2018.
The loss does not represent an economic loss to the Group since there is an offset within other comprehensive income.
i I ncome from discontinued operations primarily relates to the release of a 340m provision relating to capital gains tax in respect of the disposal of the Groups Korean operations, following completion of the tax assessment by Korean Tax Authorities.
The Group also recognised a 6m gain from the revaluation of the potential capital gains tax liability in the discontinued operations in China.
These gains were partially offset by a 128 m net loss relating to the disposal of the Groups Turkish operations and a 2 m loss relating to costs associated with the disposal of the Korean business.
52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 Profit loss for the year included the following exceptional items: Total exceptional items included Exceptional AdminPropertywithin Share of JV items within Cost of istrative related operating and associates Finance discontinued sales expenses items profit profits losses costs Taxation operations Exceptional items included in: m m m m m m m m Net restructuring and redundancy costs 153 26 20 199 39 Net impairment loss reversal of non-current 25 31 6 54 20 assets and onerous lease provisions Provision for customer redress 45 45 Interchange settlement 57 57 11 Amounts provided in relation to DPA 235 235 and FCA obligations Property transactions 165 165 50 Insurance reserve adjustment 23 Foreign exchange losses on GBP short-term 244 investments held in overseas entities Exceptional items related to 75 discontinued operations Total 116 261 114 263 77 244 98 75 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 4 Exceptional items continued Cash flow statement The table below shows the impact of exceptional items on the Group cash flow statement: Cash flows from Cash flows from operating activities investing activities 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m a Prior year restructuring costs and other exceptional costs including trading store redundancies 56 54 a Current year restructuring costs and other exceptional costs including trading store redundancies 67 78 Utilisation of onerous lease provisions 93 113 b Property transactions 9 36 111 490 Property transactions sale of investment in joint venture 19 c Provision for customer redress 23 28 Legal settlement 57 DPA compensation scheme payments 149 d VAT refund HMRC court case 160 Proceeds from sale of investments Lazada 196 Proceeds from sale of opticians business 45 e Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries treated as discontinued 26 Exceptional cash flows from discontinued operations 2 5 Total 219 178 170 490 a Cash outflows on settlement of restructuring and redundancy costs.
b Property transactions is made up of 78m proceeds from disposal of properties and 180 m from property buy backs from the BLT Properties Limited joint venture, comprising 189m paid for the properties acquired and 9m relating to working capital and cash acquired.
Refer to footnote g on the previous page.
c Settlement of claims for customer redress in Tesco Bank.
d VAT recovered in relation to the appeal against HMRC regarding the treatment of VAT on Clubcard rewards.
Refer to Note 25 for further details.
e This relates to the disposal of the Groups Turkish operations comprising 37m proceeds received and 11m cash disposed.
Note 5 Finance income and costs 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 Continuing operations Notes m m Finance income Interest receivable and similar income 75 48 Financial instruments fair value remeasurements 23 61 Total finance income 98 109 Finance costs GBP MTNs and Loans 207 227 EUR MTNs 84 114 USD Bonds 72 93 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 8 8 Other interest payable 62 81 Capitalised interest 11 2 6 Total finance costs before exceptional items and net pension finance costs 431 517 Net pension finance costs 27 162 113 Foreign exchange losses on GBP short-term investments held in overseas entities 4 38 244 Total finance costs 631 874 Net finance cost 533 765 Note 6 Taxation Recognised in the Group income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Current tax credit charge UK corporation tax 143 70 Overseas tax 118 111 Adjustments in respect of prior years 29 19 232 200 Deferred tax credit charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25 43 Adjustments in respect of prior years 49 36 Change in tax rate 34 74 113 Total income tax credit charge 306 87 Adjustments in respect of prior years include a tax charge of 25m in relation to an adjustment to capital losses on property disposals classified as exceptional.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 6 Taxation continued Recognised in the Group income statement continued The Finance Act 2016 included legislation to reduce the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These rate reductions were substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and therefore included in these consolidated financial statements.
Temporary differences have been remeasured using the enacted tax rates that are expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Reconciliation of effective tax charge 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Profit loss before tax 1,298 145 Tax credit charge at 19.1% 2017: 20.0% 248 29 Effect of: Non-qualifying depreciation 31 33 a Other non-taxable non-deductible items 10 82 Unrecognised tax losses 27 48 b Property items taxed on a different basis to accounting entries 25 77 Banking surcharge tax 19 17 Differences in overseas taxation rates 5 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 20 17 Share of losses of joint ventures and associates 1 21 Change in tax rate 34 Total income tax credit charge 306 87 Effective tax rate 23.6% 60.0% a This includes impairment reversals on assets not qualifying for tax relief as well as current year movements on uncertain tax positions and expenses not qualifying for tax relief.
The prior year included impairment and Deferred Prosecution Agreement DPA provisions not qualifying for tax relief.
b This includes property items where the carrying values differ from their valuation for tax purposes and recognition of capital losses on property asset disposals.
Reconciliation of effective tax charge on APMs 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Profit loss before tax before exceptional items 1,143 729 Tax credit charge at 19.1% 2017: 20.0% 218 146 Effect of: Non-qualifying depreciation 31 33 a Other non-taxable non-deductible items 27 50 Unrecognised tax losses 18 14 b Property items taxed on a different basis to accounting entries 18 1 Banking surcharge tax 19 17 Differences in overseas taxation rates 5 7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 39 Share of losses of joint ventures and associates 1 5 Change in tax rate 49 Total income tax credit charge before exceptional items 286 185 Effective tax rate before exceptional items 25.0% 25.4% Net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements 139 52 Tax charge at 19.1% 2017: 20.0% 26 10 Change in tax rate 3 3 Total income tax credit charge before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements 309 192 c Effective tax rate before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements 24.1% 24.6% a This includes current year movements on uncertain tax positions and expenses not qualifying for tax relief.
The prior year also included impairment provisions not qualifying for tax relief.
c The APM has been amended during the year to exclude the impact of fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
The information for the 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017 has been amended accordingly.
Refer to pages 150 to 153 for further details on the Groups APMs.
Tax on items credited directly to the Group statement of changes in equity 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax credit charge on: Share-based payments 6 2 Total tax on items credited charged to the Group statement of changes in equity 6 2 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 95 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 6 Taxation continued Tax relating to components of the Group statement of comprehensive income loss 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Current tax credit charge on: Foreign exchange movements 9 13 Deferred tax credit charge on: Pensions 554 579 Fair value of movement on available-for-sale investments 10 15 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 21 5 Total tax on items credited charged to Group statement of comprehensive income loss 532 556 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior financial years measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date: PropertyRetirement Short-term related benefit Share-based timing Financial a c items obligation payments differences Tax losses instruments Total m m m m m m m At 27 February 2016 816 563 6 143 50 32 86 Charge credit to the Group income statement 162 20 14 6 41 4 113 Charge credit to the Group statement of changes in equity 2 2 Charge credit to the Group statement 579 10 569 of comprehensive income loss Discontinued operations 18 18 Business combinations 1 1 b Foreign exchange and other movements 8 1 10 1 2 At 25 February 2017 644 1,122 23 148 8 38 619 Charge credit to the Group income statement 65 14 14 1 7 1 74 Charge credit to the Group statement of changes in equity 6 6 Charge credit to the Group statement 554 31 523 of comprehensive income loss b Foreign exchange and other movements 4 2 2 At 24 February 2018 713 554 43 149 1 8 26 a Property-related items include a deferred tax liability on rolled over gains of 281m 2017: 277m and deferred tax assets on capital losses of 119m 2017: 185m.
The remaining balance relates to accelerated tax depreciation.
The Group does not expect a material reversal in the next financial year.
b The deferred tax charge for foreign exchange and other movements is a 2 m charge 2017: 2m credit relating to the retranslation of deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date and is included within currency translation differences in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss.
c The deferred tax asset on retirement benefits is expected to reverse as additional funding contributions are made to the closed defined benefit scheme.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 117 707 Deferred tax liabilities 91 88 26 619 No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 3.7bn 2017: 3.2bn relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 24 February 2018 is estimated to be 216m 2017: 192m which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
UK tax legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits: 2018 2017 m m Deductible temporary differences 93 108 Tax losses 217 202 310 310 As at 24 February 2018, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of 913m 2017: 859m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 2m 2017: 45m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 911m 2017: 814m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 13m that will expire by 2022 2017: 18m in 2021 and 175m that will expire between 2023 and 2038 2017: 92m between 2022 and 2037.
Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
96 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 6 Taxation continued Current tax Within the Group current tax liability of 335m is 48m of capital gains tax liabilities that may arise in respect of the contribution of the Groups China operations into a venture with China Resource Enterprises Limited in 2014.
There are no other individually material provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Changes in tax law or its interpretation The Group operates in a number of territories which leads to the Groups profits being subject to tax in many jurisdictions.
We monitor income tax developments in these territories which include the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS initiative and European Unions state aid investigations which could affect the Groups tax liabilities.
Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale Assets and liabilities of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 24 February 25 February 2018 2017 m m Assets of the disposal group 198 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 149 146 Total assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 149 344 Total liabilities of the disposal group 171 Total net assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 149 173 The non-current assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties in the UK and Central Europe due to be sold within one year.
Discontinued operations On 10 June 2016, the Group announced the proposed sale of its 95.5% controlling interest in Tesco Kipa Kitle Pazarlama Ticaret Lojistik five Gda Sanayi A.. referred to as Turkish operations or Turkey to Migros Ticaret A.. Migros.
Local regulatory approval was granted on 9 February 2017 and the sale completed on 1 March 2017.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the Turkish operations for the period up to 1 March 2017 have been classified as a disposal group.
The tables below show the results of the discontinued operations which are included in the Group income statement and Group cash flow statement respectively.
Income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks a 2018 2017 m m Revenue 543 b Expenses 580 Profit loss before tax before exceptional items 37 Taxation Profit loss after tax before exceptional items 37 Net impairment loss reversal of non-current assets 99 Costs to sell and other provisions Turkey 3 Loss after tax on disposal of Turkish operations 128 c Net adjustments to profit loss of past disposals 344 27 d Total profit loss after tax of discontinued operations 216 112 a These figures represent the income statement of Turkey for the current year and the net adjustments to profit loss of past disposals of 344m.
Refer to Note 4 for further details.
b Intercompany recharges totalling nil 2017: 2m between continuing operations and the Turkey discontinued operation have been eliminated.
c At 25 February 2017, the Group held a provision of 329m for potential additional capital gains tax relating to the disposal of the Groups Korean operations.
During the financial year, the final tax assessment was received from the Korean Tax Authorities, confirming that no further capital gains tax is payable.
As a result, the provision of 340m, after the impact of foreign exchange movements, has been released.
The Group also recognised a 6m gain from the revaluation of the potential capital gains tax liability in the discontinued operations in China and a 2 m loss relating to costs associated with the disposal of the Korean business.
These amounts have been classified as exceptional items within Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations.
d Total profit loss after tax of discontinued operations includes a loss of nil attributable to non-controlling interests 2017: 6 m. Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 97 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued Income statement continued The loss after tax on disposal of the Groups Turkish operations is made up as follows: m Gross proceeds 37 Deferred and contingent consideration 2 Net proceeds 39 Net book value of assets disposed: Goodwill, software and other intangible assets 9 Property, plant and equipment 121 Inventories 43 Trade and other receivables 14 Cash and cash equivalents 11 Trade and other payables 88 Borrowings 76 Provisions 2 Post-employment benefit obligation 5 Currency translation reserve recycled to the Group income statement 140 Taxation Loss after tax of disposal of Turkish operations 128 Earnings losses per share impact from discontinued operations 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 Pence share Pence share Basic 2.65 1.30 Diluted 2.64 1.30 Cash flow statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2018 2017 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 20 Net cash flows from investing activities 13 Net cash flows from financing activities 21 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 14 Intra-Group funding and intercompany transactions 2 Net cash flows from discontinued operations, net of intercompany 12 Net cash flows from disposal of subsidiary 11 Net cash flows from discontinued operations, net of intercompany and disposal of subsidiary 11 12 Note 8 Dividends 2018 2017 Pence share m Pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: Current financial year interim dividend 1.00 82 Dividends paid to equity owners in the financial year 1.00 82 Current financial year proposed final dividend 2.00 195 The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 10 April 2018 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 24 February 2018, in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the reporting period.
It will be paid on 22 June 2018 to shareholders who are on the Register of members at close of business on 18 May 2018.
The Group has implemented a share forfeiture programme following the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not had contact with Tesco PLC the Company over the past 12 years, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Companys Articles.
2m of unclaimed dividends in relation to these shares have been adjusted for in retained earnings.
Refer to Note 28 for further details.
98 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 9 Earnings losses per share and diluted earnings losses per share Basic earnings losses per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit loss attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Diluted earnings losses per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit loss attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive share options.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers to have been earned.
For the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 there were 27 million 2017: 20 million potentially dilutive share options.
As the Group has recognised a profit for the year from its continuing operations dilutive effects have been considered in calculating diluted earnings per share.
2018 2017 Potentially Potentially dilutive share dilutive share Basic options Diluted Basic options Diluted Profit loss m a Continuing operations 990 990 66 66 b Discontinued operations 216 216 106 106 Total 1,206 1,206 40 40 Weighted average number of shares millions 8,165 27 8,192 8,148 20 8,168 Earnings losses per share pence Continuing operations 12.12 0.04 12.08 0.81 0.81 Discontinued operations 2.65 0.01 2.64 1.30 1.30 Total 14.77 0.05 14.72 0.49 0.49 a Excludes profits losses from non-controlling interests of 2m 2017: 8 m. b Excludes profits losses from non-controlling interests of nil 2017: 6 m. APM: Earnings losses per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments 52 weeks 52 weeks Notes 2018 2017 Profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items m 1,143 729 Add: Net pension finance costs m 5 162 113 Less: Fair value remeasurements on financial instruments m 5 23 61 Profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 1,282 781 and fair value remeasurements m Profit before tax from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 1,282 784 and fair value remeasurements attributable to the owners of the parent m Taxation on profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 309 188 and fair value remeasurements attributable to the owners of the parent m Profit after tax from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 973 596 and fair value remeasurements attributable to the owners of the parent m Basic weighted average number of shares millions 8,165 8,148 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 11.92 7.31 and fair value remeasurements pence Diluted weighted average number of shares millions 8,192 8,168 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs 11.88 7.30 and fair value remeasurements pence Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments is a new APM.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 99 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 10 Goodwill, software and other intangible assets Other intangible a Goodwill Software assets Total m m m m Cost At 25 February 2017 2,426 2,971 363 5,760 Foreign currency translation 28 21 2 51 Additions 180 15 195 Acquired through business combinations 4 2 2 8 Reclassification 10 13 23 Disposals 18 3 21 At 24 February 2018 2,458 3,166 392 6,016 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 25 February 2017 634 2,092 317 3,043 Foreign currency translation 28 17 1 46 Charge for the year 208 11 219 Impairment losses 28 28 Reversal of impairment losses 4 4 b Reclassification 47 8 39 Disposals 14 2 16 At 24 February 2018 662 2,378 315 3,355 Net carrying value At 24 February 2018 1,796 788 77 2,661 At 25 February 2017 1,792 879 46 2,717 Other intangible a Goodwill Software assets Total m m m m Cost At 27 February 2016 2,517 2,861 372 5,750 Foreign currency translation 71 28 5 104 Additions 156 5 161 Reclassification 15 2 13 Disposals 123 43 10 176 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 39 16 11 66 At 25 February 2017 2,426 2,971 363 5,760 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 27 February 2016 690 1,886 300 2,876 Foreign currency translation 36 21 2 59 Charge for the year 216 29 245 Impairment losses 46 5 3 54 Reversal of impairment losses 1 1 Reclassification 12 12 Disposals 99 34 1 134 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 39 13 4 56 At 25 February 2017 634 2,092 317 3,043 a Software includes 395m of internally generated development costs 2017: 422m.
b Reclassification includes amounts related to impairment losses and reversals booked in the year, comprising a 34m reduction to the impairment loss in Software and a 1m increase to the impairment reversal in Other intangible assets.
The offsetting 35 m has been reclassified to property, plant and equipment as per Note 11.
Impairment of goodwill The goodwill balances, discount rates and long-term growth rates for each group of cash-generating units are shown below: Pre-tax Post-tax Long-term Balances m discount rates discount rates growth rates 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tesco Bank 802 802 10.6% 12.0% 8.0% 9.1% 2.5% 3.0% UK 735 735 8.9% 9.3% 7.2% 7.5% 2.1% 2.0% Thailand 180 181 9.3% 10.0% 7.5% 8.0% 2.2% 2.7% Malaysia 75 74 11.6% 12.4% 8.8% 9.4% 3.2% 2.3% ROI 4 8.3% 7.3% 1.8% 1,796 1,792 Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitor that goodwill.
100 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 10 Goodwill, software and other intangible assets continued Impairment of goodwill continued Impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are the higher of fair value less costs of disposal, and value in use.
The key estimates for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates and expected changes to future cash flows.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each cash-generating unit.
Cash flow projections are based on the Groups three year internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
Estimates of selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The forecasts are extrapolated to five years based on managements expectations, and beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates as shown above.
These long-term growth rates for the Retail business are based on inflation forecasts by recognised bodies.
The long-term growth rate for Tesco Bank is based on inflation and GDP growth forecasts by recognised bodies.
The Group has carried out a sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests of each group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated, using various reasonably possible scenarios based on recent market movements.
Neither a one percentage point increase in discount rates nor a one percentage point decrease in year one sales growth would indicate impairment in any group of cash-generating units.
This outcome includes Malaysia, which was disclosed as sensitive in the prior year.
Impairment of software and other intangible assets A net impairment loss of 24m 28m losses offset by 4m reversal has been recognised against software and other intangible assets as part of the impairment review discussed in Note 11.
The net loss of 24m has been included within exceptional items, classified as Net impairment reversal of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions within cost of sales.
Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 25 February 2017 22,690 10,681 33,371 Foreign currency translation 312 116 428 b c Additions 819 481 1,300 Reclassification 83 49 132 Classified as held for sale 146 21 167 Disposals 139 299 438 At 24 February 2018 23,453 10,909 34,362 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 25 February 2017 7,095 8,168 15,263 Foreign currency translation 121 97 218 Charge for the year 470 605 1,075 Impairment losses 44 44 88 Reversal of impairment losses 268 7 275 d Reclassification 147 100 47 Classified as held for sale 92 11 103 Disposals 107 271 378 At 24 February 2018 7,116 8,725 15,841 e Net carrying value At 24 February 2018 16,337 2,184 18,521 At 25 February 2017 15,595 2,513 18,108 f Construction in progress included above At 24 February 2018 68 57 125 At 25 February 2017 57 66 123 a Other assets consist of fixtures and fittings with a net carrying value of 1,752m 2017: 2,023m, office equipment with a net carrying value of 116m 2017: 161m and motor vehicles with a net carrying value of 316m 2017: 329m.
b Includes 2m 2017: 6m in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs capitalised during the financial year was 4.5% 2017: 4.9%.
Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the financial year in which it is incurred.
c Includes 189m net payment relating to the purchase of seven stores from a joint venture with British Land, which is a related party transaction.
Refer to Note 4 for further details of the unwind of the joint venture with British Land.
d Reclassification includes amounts related to impairment losses and reversals booked in the year, comprising a 199 m reduction to the net impairment reversal in Land and Buildings and a 164m reduction to the net impairment losses in Other assets.
The offsetting 35m has been reclassified to Software and Other intangible assets as per Note 10. e Includes 786m 2017: 788m of assets pledged as security for secured bonds and 509m 2017: 411m of property held as security in favour of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme.
Refer to Notes 21 and 27. f Construction in progress does not include land.
Assets held under finance leases Net carrying value includes assets held under finance leases, which are analysed below.
These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
2018 2017 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Net carrying value 75 32 66 27 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 101 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises: 2018 2017 m m Freehold 13,779 13,175 Long leasehold 50 years or more 412 404 Short leasehold less than 50 years 2,146 2,016 Net carrying value 16,337 15,595 Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 27 February 2016 22,557 10,468 33,025 Foreign currency translation 727 327 1,054 b Additions 816 579 1,395 Reclassification 103 58 45 Classified as held for sale 316 6 322 Disposals 674 594 1,268 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 317 151 468 At 25 February 2017 22,690 10,681 33,371 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 27 February 2016 7,198 7,927 15,125 Foreign currency translation 258 239 497 Charge for the year 419 639 1,058 Impairment losses 246 27 273 Reversal of impairment losses 246 33 279 Reclassification 58 11 47 Classified as held for sale 137 1 138 Disposals 353 539 892 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 232 102 334 At 25 February 2017 7,095 8,168 15,263 a b Refer to previous page for footnotes.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing each store is a cash-generating unit.
Cash-generating units are tested for impairment if there are indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
The discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region and range from 7% to 12% 2017: 9% to 13%.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates range from 5% to 9% 2017: 7% to 10%.
The forecasts are extrapolated to five years based on managements expectations, and beyond five years based on long-term average growth rates, which are derived from inflation forecasts by recognised bodies.
These long-term average growth rates range from 1% to 4% 2017: 1% to 3%.
Fair values are determined with regard to the market rent for the stores or for alternative uses with investment yields appropriate to reflect the physical characteristics of the property, location, infrastructure, redevelopment potential and other factors.
In some cases, fair values include residual valuations where stores may be viable for redevelopment.
The key inputs to the valuation are the potential market rents and yields, both of which are largely based on rentals and yields for similar properties in that location.
Fair values for the Groups properties were determined with the assistance of independent, professional valuers where appropriate.
The net carrying value of 18,521m 2017: 18,108m on the previous page comprises 14,056m 2017: 13,338m of unimpaired assets and 4,465m 2017: 4,770m of impaired assets.
Of the impaired assets, 1,795m 2017: 2,196m carrying value was supported by value in use and 2,670m 2017: 2,574m was supported by fair value.
Due to the individual nature of each property, these fair values are classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.
The total net impairment reversal of 187m 275m reversal offset by 88m losses largely reflects normal fluctuations expected from store level performance, property fair values and changes in discount rates.
These losses and reversals have been largely presented net at a country level to reflect the underlying trends in the businesses.
The impairment reversal of 275m 2017: 279m relates to properties in the UK & ROI of 154m 2017: 118m, Central Europe of 112m 2017: 158m and Asia of 9m 2017: 3m, while the impairment losses of 88m 2017: 167m relate to properties in the UK & ROI of 50m 2017: 12m, Central Europe of 6m 2017: 121m and Asia of 32m 2017: 34m.
Of the 187m net reversal, a 183m reversal within exceptional items related to trading stores has been classified as Net impairment reversal of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions within cost of sales.
In addition, a 1m loss within exceptional items related to closed stores has been classified as Net impairment reversal of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions within profits losses arising on property-related items.
A further 3m loss within exceptional items related to the unwind of the Groups joint venture with British Land has been classified as Property transactions within profits losses arising on property-related items.
The remaining 8m reversal was not included within exceptional items as it relates to the Groups day to day management of the property portfolio.
102 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment continued The prior year net impairment reversal of 6m included an impairment loss of 106m relating to the Groups decision to sell its Turkish operations, which was classified as an exceptional item relating to discontinued operations.
Of the 112m net reversal relating to continuing operations, a 134m reversal was included within exceptional items, which related to trading stores and was classified as Net impairment of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions within cost of sales.
In addition, a 30m charge within exceptional items related to construction in progress and closed stores, which was classified as Net impairment of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions within profits losses arising on property-related items.
The remaining 8m reversal was not included within exceptional items as it related to the Groups day to day management of the property portfolio.
The Group has carried out a sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests for its trading stores portfolio using various reasonably possible scenarios based on recent market movements.
An increase of one percentage point in the discount rates for each geographic region would increase impairment by 232m.
A decrease of one percentage point would decrease impairment by 239m.
Neither a one percentage point increase nor decrease in year one sales growth would result in a material change to impairment.
Note 12 Investment property 2018 2017 m m Cost At the beginning of the year 171 170 Foreign currency translation 5 7 Additions 1 Reclassification 123 56 Classified as held for sale 58 25 Disposals 34 37 At the end of the year 208 171 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At the beginning of the year 107 92 Foreign currency translation 4 6 Charge for the year 1 1 Impairment losses for the year 1 3 Reversal of impairment losses for the year 5 4 Reclassification 23 45 Classified as held for sale 3 12 Disposals 20 24 At the end of the year 108 107 Net carrying value at the end of the year 100 64 The estimated fair value of the Groups investment property is 0.2bn 2017: 0.2bn.
This fair value has been determined by applying an appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property.
A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer.
Of the 4m net reversal, a 3m reversal within exceptional items has been classified as Net impairment of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions included within profits losses arising on property-related items.
Note 13 Group entities The Group consists of the ultimate Parent Company, Tesco PLC, and a number of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates held directly or indirectly by Tesco PLC.
See pages 140 to 145 for a complete list of Group entities.
Subsidiaries The accounting year ends of the subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 24 February 2018.
Consolidated structured entities The Group has a number of securitisation structured entities established in connection with Tesco Banks credit card securitisation transactions.
Although none of the equity of these entities is owned by the Group, the Group has rights to variable returns from its involvement with these entities and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over them under contractual agreements.
As such these entities are effectively controlled by the Group, and are therefore accounted for as subsidiaries of the Group.
These entities have financial year ends of 31 December.
The management accounts of these entities are used to consolidate the results to 24 February 2018 within these financial statements.
Unconsolidated structured entities In prior years, the Group sponsored a number of structured entities.
The Group led the formation of the entities and its name appears in the name of the entities and or on the debt issued by the entities.
The structured entities were set up to finance property purchases by some of the UK property joint ventures in which the Group typically holds a 50% equity interest.
The structured entities obtain debt financing from third party investors and lend the funds to these joint ventures, who use the funds to purchase the properties.
The liabilities of the UK property joint ventures include the loans from these structured entities.
The Groups exposure to the structured entities is limited to the extent of the Groups interests in the joint ventures.
The liabilities of the structured entities are non-recourse to the Group.
The Group concluded that it does not control, and therefore should not consolidate, these structured entities since it does not have power over the relevant activities of the structured entities, or exposure to variable returns from these entities.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 103 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 13 Group entities continued Interests in joint ventures and associates Principal joint ventures and associates The Groups principal joint ventures and associates are: Share of issued share capital, Nature of loan capital and Country of relationship Business activity debt securities incorporation Principal area of operation Gain Land Limited Associate Retail 20% British Virgin Islands Peoples Republic of China Hong Kong Included in UK property joint ventures: The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% England United Kingdom The Tesco Property No.
2 Limited Partnership Joint venture Property investment 50% Jersey United Kingdom Included in Other joint ventures and associates: Tesco Mobile Limited Joint venture Telecommunications 50% England United Kingdom Tesco Underwriting Limited Joint venture Insurance 49.9% England United Kingdom Trent Hypermarket Limited Joint venture Retail 50% India India Tesco Lotus Retail Growth Freehold Associate Property investment 25% Thailand Thailand and Leasehold Property Fund The accounting period end dates of the joint ventures and associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2017 to 28 February 2018.
The accounting period end dates for joint ventures differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture partner as well as those of the Group.
The accounting period end dates of the associates are different from those of the Group as they depend upon the requirements of the parent companies of those entities.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures and associates to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006, and for Tesco Underwriting Limited, regulatory capital requirements.
The UK property joint ventures involve the Group partnering with third parties in carrying out some property investments in order to enhance returns from property and access funding, while reducing risks associated with sole ownership.
These property investments generally cover shopping centres and standalone stores.
The Group enters into operating leases for some or all of the properties held in the joint ventures.
These leases provide the Group with some rights over alterations and adjacent land developments.
Some leases also provide the Group with options to purchase the other joint venturers equity stakes at a future point in time.
In some cases the Group has the ability to substitute properties in the joint ventures with alternative properties of similar value, subject to strict eligibility criteria.
In other cases, the Group carries out property management activities for third party rentals of shopping centre units.
The property investment activities are carried out in separate entities, usually partnerships or limited liability companies.
The Group has assessed its ability to direct the relevant activities of these entities and impact Group returns and concluded that the entities qualify as joint ventures since decisions regarding them require the unanimous consent of both equity holders.
This assessment included not only rights within the joint venture agreements, but also any rights within other contractual arrangements between the Group and the entities.
The Group made a number of judgements in arriving at this determination, the key ones being: since the provisions of the joint venture agreements require the relevant decisions impacting investor returns to be either unanimously agreed by both joint venturers at the same time, or in some cases to be agreed sequentially by each venturer at different stages, there is joint decision making within the joint venture: since the Groups leases are priced at fair value, and any rights embedded in the leases are consistent with market practice, they do not provide the Group with additional control over the joint ventures or infer an obligation by the Group to fund the settlement of liabilities of the joint ventures: any options to purchase the other joint venturers equity stakes are priced at market value, and only exercisable at future dates, hence they do not provide control to the Group at the current time: where the Group has a right to substitute properties in the joint ventures, the rights are strictly limited and are at fair value, hence do not provide control to the Group: and where the Group carries out property management activities for third party rentals in shopping centres, these additional activities are controlled through joint venture agreements or lease agreements, and do not provide the Group with additional powers over the joint venture.
104 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 13 Group entities continued Summarised financial information for joint ventures and associates The summarised financial information below reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates, and not the Groups share of those amounts.
These amounts have been adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies where required.
The summarised financial information for UK property joint ventures has been aggregated in order to provide useful information to users without excessive detail since these entities have similar characteristics and risk profiles largely based on their nature of activities and geographic market.
UK property joint ventures Gain Land Limited 12 months 12 months to 2018 2017 to Dec 2017 Dec 2016 m m m m Summarised balance sheet a Non-current assets 3,851 4,060 3,924 4,172 Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 92 99 1,801 2,231 Cash and cash equivalents 37 48 414 631 b Current liabilities 304 301 5,318 6,232 b Non-current liabilities 4,561 4,831 409 169 c Net assets liabilities 885 925 412 633 Summarised income statement Revenue 280 292 9,097 9,081 Profit loss after tax 230 626 Reconciliation to carrying amounts: Opening balance 433 511 Additions disposals Foreign currency translation 21 47 d Share of profits losses 12 14 46 125 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 12 14 e Deferred profits offset against carrying amounts Closing balance 366 433 Groups share in ownership 50% 50% 20% 20% Groups share of net assets liabilities 443 463 82 127 c Goodwill 284 306 e Deferred property profits offset against carrying amounts 61 63 d f Cumulative unrecognised losses 168 175 d f Cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves 336 351 Carrying amount 366 433 a The non-current asset balances of UK property joint ventures are reflected at historic depreciated cost to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
The aggregate fair values in the financial statements of the UK property joint ventures are 4,983m 2017: 5,242m.
b The current and non-current liabilities of UK property joint ventures largely comprise loan balances of 3,892m 2017: 4,121m and derivative swap balances of 672m 2017: 703m entered into to hedge the cash flow variability exposures of the joint ventures.
c The December 2016 comparative summarised balance sheet for Gain Land Limited Gain Land has been updated to reflect 353m impairment of net assets within Gain Land.
Tescos 20% share of this impairment was previously recorded as an impairment of the goodwill inherent within Tescos investment in Gain Land.
d The share of profit for the year for UK property joint ventures related to 12m dividends received from joint ventures with nil carrying amounts.
5m of losses and 7m of increases in the fair values of derivatives arising from these entities have been included in cumulative unrecognised losses and cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves respectively.
e Deferred profits that arose from the transfer of properties into the UK property joint ventures have been offset against the carrying amounts of the related joint ventures.
2m relating to BLT Properties Limited has been released during the year as a result of the joint venture being wound up on 6 April 2017. f Cumulative unrecognised losses of 24m and cumulative unrecognised hedge reserves of 8m were disposed of relating to BLT Properties Limited.
At 24 February 2018, the Group has 104m 2017: 103m loans to UK property joint ventures and nil 2017: nil to Gain Land.
Other joint ventures and associates The Group also has interests in a number of other joint ventures and associates, excluding UK property joint ventures and Gain Land.
These are not considered to be individually material to the Group.
Joint ventures Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Aggregate carrying amount of other joint ventures and associates 262 245 61 61 Groups share of profits losses for the year 17 7 11 11 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 105 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 13 Group entities continued Impairment Management has performed impairment tests and sensitivity analysis on its investments in Gain Land, Trent Hypermarket Limited and Tesco Underwriting Limited.
The carrying values of Trent Hypermarket Limited of 98m 2017: 112m and Tesco Underwriting Limited of 90m 2017: 71m are included within Other joint ventures and associates as discussed on the previous page.
The recoverable values of these investments were estimated taking into account forecast cash flows, equity valuations of comparable entities and or recent transactions for comparable businesses.
No impairment was recognised in the year for these investments.
The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests for these investments.
A reasonably possible increase of one percentage point in the discount rate, based on recent market movements, would not indicate impairment in Gain Land or Tesco Underwriting Limited.
An increase in the discount rate by one percentage point would not result in a material impairment to the carrying value of Trent Hypermarket Limited.
Future changes in estimated cash flows, discount rates, competitive landscape, retail market conditions and other factors may result in impairment losses or reversals of impairment in future periods.
Note 14 Other investments 2018 2017 m m Loans receivable 13 Available-for-sale financial assets 928 1,094 Total other investments 928 1,107 Of which: Current 68 284 Non-current 860 823 928 1,107 On 30 June 2017, the Group disposed of its 8.8% shareholding in Lazada for net cash consideration of $254m 196m.
Refer to Note 31 for further details.
Note 15 Inventories 2018 2017 m m Goods held for resale 2,259 2,276 Development properties 4 25 2,263 2,301 Goods held for resale are net of commercial income.
Note 16 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 466 490 Prepayments 317 322 Accrued income 261 207 Other receivables 459 483 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Note 29 165 153 Total trade and other receivables 1,668 1,655 Of which: Current 1,482 1,475 Non-current 186 180 1,668 1,655 Trade and other receivables include commercial income.
Trade and other receivables are generally non interest-bearing.
Credit terms vary by country and the nature of the debt, ranging from 7 to 60 days.
At 24 February 2018, trade and other receivables of 13m 2017: 16m were past due and impaired.
The gross amount of trade and other receivables was 56m 2017: 68m with a provision of 43m 2017: 52m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Up to three months past due Three to six months past due 2 3 Over six months past due 11 13 13 16 106 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 16 Trade and other receivables continued At 24 February 2018, trade and other receivables of 95m 2017: 130m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Up to three months past due 83 119 Three to six months past due 9 10 Over six months past due 3 1 95 130 No receivables have been renegotiated in the current or prior financial years.
Note 17 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank has loans and advances to customers, as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current 4,637 4,166 Non-current 6,885 5,795 11,522 9,961 The maturity of these loans and advances is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Repayable on demand or at short notice 4 3 Within three months 4,604 4,107 Greater than three months but less than one year 147 155 Greater than one year but less than five years 2,633 2,419 After five years 4,372 3,471 11,760 10,155 Provision for impairment of loans and advances 238 194 11,522 9,961 At 28 February 2018, 3.5bn 2017: 2.5bn of the credit card portfolio had its beneficial interest assigned to a securitisation structured entity, Delamare Cards Receivables Trustee Limited, for use as collateral in securitisation transactions.
The total encumbered portion of this portfolio is 1.6bn 2017: 1.9bn.
At 28 February 2018, Delamare Cards MTN Issuer plc had 2.4bn 2017: 1.8bn notes in issue in relation to securitisation transactions, of which 1.0bn 2017: 0.8bn was externally issued.
The Group owned 1.1bn 2017: 0.8bn class A Credit Card backed notes and 0.3bn 2017: 0.2bn class D Credit Card backed notes.
Of the total 1.1bn 2017: 0.8bn class A notes, 0.3bn 2017: 0.6bn is held in a distinct pool for the purposes of collateralising the Bank of Englands Term Funding Scheme drawings.
All other prepositioned assets with the Bank of England are held within their single collateral pool.
Provision for impairment of loans and advances m At 27 February 2016 154 Increase in allowance, net of recoveries, charged to the Group income statement 103 Amounts written off 60 Unwinding of discount 3 At 25 February 2017 194 Increase in allowance, net of recoveries, charged to the Group income statement 134 Amounts written off 87 Unwinding of discount 3 At 24 February 2018 238 Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 3,580 3,498 Short-term deposits 479 323 4,059 3,821 Short-term investments 2018 2017 m m Money market funds 1,029 2,727 Included in cash and cash equivalents is an amount of 777m 2017: 777m that was set aside at the balance sheet date for completion of the merger with Booker Group PLC.
This cash was invested at a floating rate of interest, held in ring-fenced accounts and was not available to the Group.
The merger was completed on 5 March 2018, with 766m being paid on completion.
Refer to Note 35 for further details on the Booker Group merger.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 107 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 19 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 5,416 4,914 Other taxation and social security 334 310 Other payables 1,947 2,422 Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates Note 29 20 17 Accruals and deferred income 1,643 1,536 Total trade and other payables 9,360 9,199 Of which: Current 8,996 8,875 Non-current 364 324 9,360 9,199 Trade and other payables are net of commercial income.
Note 20 Commercial income Below are the commercial income balances included within inventories and trade and other receivables, or netted against trade and other payables.
Amounts received in advance of income being earned are included in accruals and deferred income.
The scheduled redemption date of this bond is April 2018. b The bonds are secured by a charge over the property, plant and equipment held within the Tesco Property Limited Partnership, a 100% owned subsidiary of Tesco PLC.
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for secured bonds is 786m 2017: 788m.
c This is an amortising bond which matures in February 2029.
17m 2017: 15m is the principal repayment due within the next 12 months.
The remainder is payable in quarterly instalments until maturity in February 2029. d This bond was issued on 6 June 2014 and was redeemed on its scheduled redemption date of 19 May 2017. e During the financial year, the Group undertook a tender for outstanding bonds and as a result the following notional amounts were repaid early: 1.375% Medium Term Note MTN July 2019 319m, 5.5% MTN December 2019 169m, 5% MTN March 2023 151m, 6% MTN December 2029 41m, 5.5% MTN January 2033 24m, 6.15% USD bond November 2037 $300m, 4.875% MTN March 2042 71m, 5.125% MTN April 2047 244m and 5.2% MTN March 2057 111m.
f The 1% Retail Price Index RPI Tesco Bank Retail Bond is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the bond.
g This bond was issued on 6 June 2014.
The scheduled redemption date of this bond is May 2019. h This bond was issued on 7 November 2017.
The scheduled redemption date of this bond is October 2020. i The 3.322% Limited Price Inflation LPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
j The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, indexed for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 24 February 2018, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date: 2018 2017 m m Expiring in less than one year 38 Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 4,232 4,427 4,270 4,427 The current year undrawn committed facilities include 1.6bn 2017: 1.8bn of bilateral facilities and a 2.6bn 2017: 2.6bn syndicated revolving credit facility.
All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 109 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 22 Financial instruments Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks and those that are held as hedging instruments are formally designated as hedges as defined in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes and the Groups hedging policies are further described below.
Net finance income of 27m 2017: 43m resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges The Group maintains interest rate and cross-currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt issued by the Group.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument and hedged item is recognised in the Group income statement within finance income or costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item is amortised to the Group income statement on an effective interest rate basis.
A loss of 245m on hedging instruments was recognised during the year, offset by a gain of 261m on hedged items 2017: a gain of 126m on hedging instruments, offset by a loss of 26m on hedged items.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward contracts to mainly hedge the foreign currency cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Where these contracts qualify for hedge accounting, fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity.
These hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur and will affect the Group income statement within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Group also uses index-linked swaps to hedge cash flows on index-linked debt, interest rate swaps to hedge interest cash flows on debt and cross-currency swaps to hedge cash flows on fixed rate debt denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group also uses forward contracts to hedge the future purchase of diesel for own use.
Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness resulted in a gain of 11m during the year 2017: a loss of 57m.
Net investment hedges The Group uses currency denominated borrowings to hedge the exposure of a portion of its net investment in overseas operations with non-Sterling functional currency against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
There was nil 2017: nil that was recorded as resulting from net investment hedge ineffectiveness.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled to the Group income statement on disposal of overseas operations.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting The Groups policy does not permit use of derivatives for trading purposes.
However, some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, or are specifically not designated as a hedge where gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group income statement.
These instruments include index-linked swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement within finance income or costs.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been disclosed in the Group balance sheet as follows: 2018 2017 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Current 27 69 286 61 Non-current 1,117 594 1,303 607 1,144 663 1,589 668 The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2018 2017 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 43 2,424 87 1,728 29 543 116 3,050 Cross-currency swaps 129 401 48 207 386 791 26 408 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 17 110 38 598 Cross-currency swaps 216 1,413 334 2,384 Index-linked swaps 160 672 152 651 Forward contracts 23 736 53 1,491 75 1,174 1 947 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 4 436 1 528 3 71 6 1,156 Cross-currency swaps 1 27 9 44 Index-linked swaps 564 3,590 443 3,590 592 3,589 446 3,589 Forward contracts 5 795 14 1,896 17 1,126 26 741 Total 1,144 10,467 663 9,550 1,589 10,356 668 10,533 110 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 22 Financial instruments continued Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting continued The carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2018 2017 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,059 4,059 3,821 3,821 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 11,522 11,659 9,961 10,178 Short-term investments 1,029 1,029 2,727 2,727 Other investments 928 928 1,107 1,107 Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 138 139 137 158 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 47 47 32 32 Cross-currency swaps 345 345 721 721 Index-linked swaps 724 724 744 744 Forward contracts 28 28 92 92 Total assets 18,820 18,958 19,342 19,580 Liabilities Short-term borrowings: Amortised cost 1,467 1,240 2,246 2,269 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 303 291 Long-term borrowings: Amortised cost 6,137 6,210 7,977 8,414 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 895 818 1,353 1,248 Finance leases 122 132 114 125 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 9,245 9,224 8,463 8,485 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 1,539 1,539 500 500 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 105 105 160 160 Cross-currency swaps 48 48 35 35 Index-linked swaps 443 443 446 446 Forward contracts 67 67 27 27 Total liabilities 20,068 19,826 21,624 22,000 Net assets liabilities 1,248 868 2,282 2,420 Joint ventures and associates loan receivables carrying amounts of 138m 2017: 137m are presented in the Group balance sheet net of deferred profits of 54m 2017: 54m historically arising from the sale of property assets to joint ventures.
The fair values of financial instruments and derivatives have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded, where they are available.
Where market prices are not available, the fair value has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The above table excludes trade and other receivables payables which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
The expected maturity of the financial assets and liabilities is not considered to be materially different to their current and non-current classification.
Financial assets and liabilities by category The accounting classifications of each class of financial assets and liabilities at 24 February 2018 and 25 February 2017 are as follows: Loans and Fair value receivables through Availableother financial profit or for-sale liabilities loss Total At 24 February 2018 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 4,059 4,059 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 11,522 11,522 Short-term investments 1,029 1,029 Other investments 928 928 Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 138 138 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 9,245 9,245 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 1,539 1,539 Short-term borrowings 1,467 1,467 Long-term borrowings 7,032 7,032 Finance leases 122 122 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 58 58 Cross-currency swaps 297 297 Index-linked swaps 281 281 Forward contracts 39 39 928 2,657 481 1,248 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 111 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 22 Financial instruments continued Financial assets and liabilities by category continued Loans and Fair value receivables through Availableother financial profit or for-sale liabilities loss Total At 25 February 2017 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 3,821 3,821 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 9,961 9,961 Short-term investments 2,727 2,727 Other investments 1,094 13 1,107 Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 137 137 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 8,463 8,463 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 500 500 Short-term borrowings 2,549 2,549 Long-term borrowings 9,330 9,330 Finance leases 114 114 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 128 128 Cross-currency swaps 686 686 Index-linked swaps 298 298 Forward contracts 65 65 1,094 4,297 921 2,282 The above tables exclude trade and other receivables payables that are classified under loans and receivables other financial liabilities.
Fair value measurement The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 24 February 2018 and 25 February 2017, by level of fair value hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 24 February 2018 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 923 5 928 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 47 47 Cross-currency swaps 345 345 Index-linked swaps 724 724 Forward contracts 28 28 Total assets 923 1,144 5 2,072 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 105 105 Cross-currency swaps 48 48 Index-linked swaps 443 443 Forward contracts 67 67 Total liabilities 663 663 Net assets liabilities 923 481 5 1,409 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 25 February 2017 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 964 130 1,094 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 32 32 Cross-currency swaps 721 721 Index-linked swaps 744 744 Forward contracts 92 92 Total assets 964 1,589 130 2,683 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 160 160 Cross-currency swaps 35 35 Index-linked swaps 446 446 Forward contracts 27 27 Total liabilities 668 668 Net assets liabilities 964 921 130 2,015 112 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 22 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement continued The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 and 52 weeks ended 25 February 2017: 2018 2017 m m At the beginning of the year 130 125 Gains losses recognised in finance costs in the Group income statement 4 Gains losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss 68 90 Disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 196 81 Addition of available-for-sale financial asset 3 At the end of the year 5 130 During the financial year, there were no transfers 2017: nil between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements 2017: nil.
During the financial year, the Group fully disposed of its remaining investment in Lazada, an investment in an unlisted entity, resulting in a 70m revaluation gain offset by 2m foreign exchange loss.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following tables show those financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Gross amounts Gross of financial amounts assets Related amounts not offset of recognised liabilities Net amounts in the Group balance sheet financial offset in presented in assets the Group the Group Financial Net liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments Collateral amount At 24 February 2018 m m m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,187 128 4,059 4,059 Derivative financial instruments 1,144 1,144 217 18 909 a Total trade and other receivables 1,887 219 1,668 1,668 Total assets 7,218 347 6,871 217 18 6,636 Financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 479 128 351 351 b Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 200 200 380 180 Derivative financial instruments 663 663 217 55 391 c Total trade and other payables 9,579 219 9,360 9,360 Total liabilities 10,921 347 10,574 597 55 9,922 Gross amounts Gross of financial amounts assets Related amounts not offset of recognised liabilities Net amounts in the Group balance sheet financial offset in presented in assets the Group the Group Financial Net liabilities balance sheet balance sheet instruments Collateral amount At 25 February 2017 m m m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 4,085 264 3,821 3,821 Derivative financial instruments 1,589 1,589 308 11 1,270 a Total trade and other receivables 1,894 239 1,655 1,655 Total assets 7,568 503 7,065 308 11 6,746 Financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 1,176 264 912 912 b Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements 100 100 100 Derivative financial instruments 668 668 308 115 245 c Total trade and other payables 9,438 239 9,199 9,199 Total liabilities 11,382 503 10,879 408 115 10,356 a Total trade and other receivables includes 317m 2017: 322m of prepayments.
b Repurchases, securities lending and similar agreements are included within the deposits from banks balance of 1,539m 2017: 500m in the Group balance sheet.
Refer to Note 24. c Total trade and other payables includes 264m 2017: 268m of deferred income.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis.
However, each party to the master netting agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 113 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 23 Financial risk factors The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved and delegated by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for risk management.
Interest rate risk Debt issued at variable rates, as well as cash deposits and short-term investments, exposes the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Debt issued at fixed rates exposes the Group to fair value risk.
The Groups policy is to target fixing a minimum of 50%70% of interest costs for senior unsecured debt of the Group excluding Tesco Bank.
At 24 February 2018, the percentage of interest-bearing debt at fixed rates was 90% 2017: 88%.
The weighted average rate of interest paid on senior unsecured debt this financial year, excluding joint ventures and associates, was 4.26% 2017: 4.08%.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and floors may be used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
The Group has RPI linked debt where the principal is indexed to increases in the RPI.
RPI debt is treated as floating rate debt.
The Group also has LPI linked debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of 0%.
LPI debt is treated as fixed rate debt.
RPI linked debt and LPI linked debt are hedged for the effects of inflation until maturity.
For interest rate risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on pages 116 and 117.
During 2018 and 2017, net debt was managed using derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk.
2018 2017 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 4,059 4,059 3,821 3,821 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 6,929 4,593 11,522 5,738 4,223 9,961 Short-term investments 1,029 1,029 2,727 2,727 Other investments 803 125 928 1,022 85 1,107 Joint ventures and associates loan receivables 76 62 138 74 63 137 Finance leases 122 122 114 114 Bank and other borrowings 6,836 1,663 8,499 9,324 2,555 11,879 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 3,447 5,798 9,245 3,984 4,479 8,463 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 1,539 1,539 500 500 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 5,096 5,096 5,288 5,288 Cross-currency swaps 608 608 1,199 1,199 Index-linked swaps 337 337 328 328 Total 8,961 7,232 1,729 11,505 8,302 3,203 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, customer deposits, financial instruments and deposits from banks and financial institutions.
The Group holds positions with an approved list of investment-grade rated counterparties and monitors the exposure, credit rating, outlook and credit default swap levels of these counterparties on a regular basis.
The net counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is 0.9bn 2017: 1.3bn.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 19.6bn 2017: 20.1bn being the Groups total financial assets.
For credit risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 117.
Liquidity risk The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, disposals of assets, debt capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases.
The policy is to maintain a prudent level of cash together with sufficient committed bank facilities to meet liquidity needs as they arise.
The Group retains access to capital markets so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Liquidity risk is managed by short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
In addition, the Group has undrawn committed facilities totalling 4.3bn 2017: 4.4bn, consisting of a syndicated revolving credit facility and bilateral facilities, which mature between 2019 and 2021.
The Group has a 15.0bn Euro Medium Term Note programme, of which 5.3bn was in issue at 24 February 2018 2017: 6.8bn, plus 0.6bn equivalent of USD denominated notes issued under 144A documentation 2017: 1.7bn.
For liquidity risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors on page 116.
The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives taking into account contractual terms that provide the counterparty a choice of when the earliest date an amount is repaid by the Group.
The potential cash outflow of 18.6bn is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets of 19.6bn 2017: 18.4bn offset by financial assets of 20.1bn.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair values.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.
For index-linked liabilities, inflation is estimated at 3% for the life of the liability 2017: 3%.
114 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 23 Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk continued Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 24 February 2018 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 1,401 1,445 963 926 28 3,860 Interest payments on borrowings 298 323 243 219 163 1,852 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 7,655 874 500 179 105 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 209 12 412 947 Finance leases 20 34 11 11 11 120 Trade and other payables 8,996 34 34 25 24 247 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 27 16 11 9 7 1,379 Net settled derivative contracts payments 57 221 367 69 87 151 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 97 79 519 70 57 2,178 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 134 72 493 121 51 1,751 Total 18,646 2,920 2,493 2,418 405 4,424 Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 25 February 2017 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 2,634 1,076 1,850 645 926 4,771 Interest payments on borrowings 349 352 379 288 268 2,906 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,658 1,147 423 167 174 Deposits from banks Tesco Bank 100 301 1 100 Finance leases 19 16 23 9 9 126 Trade and other payables 8,875 27 17 11 11 258 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 34 23 19 14 10 1,430 Net settled derivative contracts payments 96 59 251 414 86 197 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 1,402 105 105 528 96 2,878 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 1,118 83 85 506 130 2,248 Total 18,413 2,933 2,905 1,598 1,498 6,198 Trade and other payables includes 264m 2017: 268m of deferred income.
Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: transactional exposure that arises from the cost of future purchases of goods, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Transactional currency exposures that could significantly impact the Group income statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts or purchased currency options, which are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 24 February 2018, forward foreign currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 2.2bn were outstanding 2017: 2.1bn.
The notional and fair values of these contracts is shown in Note 22: net investment exposure arises from changes in the value of net investments denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling.
The Group hedges a part of its investments in its international subsidiaries via foreign currency derivatives and borrowings in matching currencies, which are formally designated as net investment hedges.
During the financial year, currency movements increased the net value, after the effects of hedging, of the Groups overseas assets by 318m 2017: increase by 751m.
The Group also ensures that each subsidiary is appropriately hedged in respect of its non-functional currency assets: and loans to non-UK subsidiaries.
These are hedged via foreign currency derivatives and borrowings in matching currencies.
These are not formally designated as hedges as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
The impact on the Group financial statements from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below.
Sensitivity analysis The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets as required by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from local entity non-functional currency financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 24 February 2018.
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to financial instruments held at the balance sheet date.
It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 115 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 23 Financial risk factors continued Sensitivity analysis continued The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, deposits and derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked debt, which has been swapped to fixed rates: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the Group income statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded directly in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss : changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments only affect the Group income statement: all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact on the Group income statement: and the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group income statement and equity that would result, at the balance sheet date, from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates that are reasonably possible for major currencies where there have recently been significant movements: 2018 2017 Income Equity Income Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss m m m m 1% increase in interest rates 2017: 1% 69 30 80 39 10% appreciation of the Euro 2017: 10% 4 143 83 108 10% appreciation of the US Dollar 2017: 10% 6 129 6 170 A decrease in interest rates and a depreciation of foreign currencies would have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above.
The impact on the Group statement of comprehensive income loss from changing exchange rates results from the revaluation of financial liabilities used as net investment hedges.
The impact on the Group statement of comprehensive income loss will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of the hedged assets.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while protecting and strengthening the Group balance sheet through the appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel them, or issue new shares.
The Group raises finance in the public debt markets and borrows from financial institutions.
The policy for debt is to smooth the debt maturity profile with the objective of ensuring continuity of funding.
This policy continued during the financial year, with debt redeemed of 2.7bn 2017: 1.9bn.
No new bonds were issued in either the current or previous financial year.
The Group borrows centrally and locally, using a variety of capital market instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the Groups business requirements of each local business.
Refer to Note 30 for the value of the Groups net debt 2.6bn: 2017: 3.7bn, and the Group statement of changes in equity for the value of the Groups equity 10.5bn: 2017: 6.4bn.
Insurance risk The Group is exposed to the risk of being inadequately protected from liabilities arising from unforeseen events.
The Group purchased assets, earnings and combined liability protection from the open insurance market for higher value losses only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the Group with some cover being provided by the Groups captive insurance companies, ELH Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company DAC formerly Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
ELH Insurance Limited covers Assets, Earnings and Combined Liability, while Valiant Insurance Company DAC covers Combined Liability only.
Tesco Bank Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises mainly where assets and liabilities in Tesco Banks banking activities have different repricing dates and from unexpected changes to the yield curve.
Tesco Bank is exposed to interest rate risk through dealings with retail customers as well as through lending to and borrowing from the wholesale market.
Tesco Bank has established limits for risk appetite and stress tests are performed using sensitivity to fluctuations in underlying interest rates in order to monitor this risk.
Tesco Bank also use the Capital at Risk CaR approach which assesses the sensitivity value change of a reduction in the Banks capital to movements in interest rates.
The scenarios considered include both parallel and non-parallel movements of the yield curve and have been designed to assess impacts across a suitable range of severe but plausible movements in interest rates.
Interest rate risk is primarily managed using interest rate swaps as the main hedging instrument.
Liquidity and funding risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Tesco Bank has insufficient liquidity resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
Funding risk is the risk that Tesco Bank does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding.
Tesco Bank operates within a Liquidity Risk Management Policy Framework LRMP to ensure that sufficient funds are available at all times to meet demands from depositors, to fund agreed advances, to meet other commitments as and when they fall due, and to ensure the Boards risk appetite is met.
Liquidity and funding risks are assessed through the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP on at least an annual basis.
Formal limits are set within the LRMP to maintain liquidity risk exposures within the Liquidity Risk Appetite set by the Board and key liquidity measures are monitored on a regular basis.
Tesco Bank maintains a conservative liquidity and funding profile to confirm that it is able to meet its financial obligations under normal, and stressed, market conditions.
116 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 23 Financial risk factors continued Tesco Bank continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a bank borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with contractually agreed terms and Tesco Bank will incur losses as a result.
Credit risk principally arises from the Banks retail lending activities but also from the placement of surplus funds with other banks and money market funds, investments in transferable securities and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
In addition, credit risk arises from contractual arrangements with third parties where payments and commissions are due to the Bank for short periods of time.
Retail credit policy is managed through the credit risk policy framework with minimum requirements for management of credit activities defined across the customer life cycle.
Customer lending decisions are managed principally through the deployment of appropriate credit scoring and associated rules, which exclude specific areas of lending, and an affordability assessment which determines a customers ability to repay the advances they are seeking.
Wholesale credit risk is managed using a limit-based framework, with limits determined by counterparty credit worthiness, instrument type and remaining tenor.
A limits framework is also in place for the management of third-party credit risk exposures.
Ineffective management and controls over the emerging asset quality of the Groups lending portfolios could expose the Group to unacceptable levels of bad debt.
The Groups asset quality is reflected through the level of its impairment by lending type.
Asset quality profiles are regularly monitored and reported to the appropriate senior management team and risk committees.
The table below presents an analysis of credit exposure by impairment status across the different exposure classes.
The table predominantly relates to banking assets: the retail instalment lending applies to credit agreements in the insurance business.
The amounts below are presented gross of impairment and exclude fair value hedge adjustments of 16 m 2017: 23m.
Prior year balances have been re-presented to reflect this change.
Credit quality of loans and advances Retail Retail Retail unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total At 24 February 2018 m m m m Past due and impaired Less than 90 days past due 44 44 90-179 days past due 59 59 180 days plus past due 109 109 Past due but not impaired Less than 29 days past due 55 1 56 30-59 days past due 20 20 60-119 days past due 13 13 Neither past due nor impaired a Low risk 8,010 2,983 129 11,122 b High risk 327 26 353 Total 8,637 3,010 129 11,776 Retail Retail Retail unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total At 25 February 2017 m m m m Past due and impaired Less than 90 days past due 32 32 90-179 days past due 48 48 180 days plus past due 99 99 Past due but not impaired Less than 29 days past due 48 1 49 30-59 days past due 16 16 60-119 days past due 10 10 Neither past due nor impaired a Low risk 7,426 2,144 140 9,710 b High risk 152 16 168 Total 7,831 2,161 140 10,132 a Low risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of less than 10%.
b High risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of 10% or more.
The credit risk exposure from off balance sheet items in 2018, mainly undrawn contractual lending commitments, was 12.4bn 2017: 12.1bn.
Insurance risk Tesco Bank is indirectly exposed to insurance risks through its ownership of 49.9% of Tesco Underwriting Limited TU, an authorised insurance company.
Insurance risk is defined as the risk accepted through the provision of insurance products in return for a premium.
The timing and quantum of the risks are uncertain and determined by events outside the control of Tesco Bank.
The key insurance risks within TU relate to underwriting risk and reserving risk.
TU operates a separate framework to ensure that the TU insurance portfolio operates within agreed risk appetite.
The Bank closely monitors performance of the portfolio against specific thresholds and limits Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 117 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 24 Customer deposits and deposits from banks 2018 2017 m m Customer deposits 9,245 8,463 Deposits from banks 1,539 500 10,784 8,963 Of which: Current 7,812 6,687 Non-current 2,972 2,276 10,784 8,963 Deposits from banks include liabilities of 200m 2017: 100m that have been sold under sale and repurchase agreements.
Note 25 Provisions Property Restructuring Other provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m At 27 February 2016 875 83 66 1,024 Foreign currency translation 12 4 16 Amount released in the year 38 18 56 Amount provided in the year 99 196 136 431 Amount utilised in the year 141 162 28 331 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 5 5 Unwinding of discount 44 44 At 25 February 2017 851 98 174 1,123 Foreign currency translation 5 1 6 Amount released in the year 33 32 14 79 Amount provided in the year 153 157 211 521 Amount utilised in the year 120 146 50 316 Unwinding of discount 13 13 At 24 February 2018 869 78 321 1,268 The balances are analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current 547 438 Non-current 721 685 1,268 1,123 Property provisions Property provisions comprise onerous lease provisions, including leases on unprofitable stores and vacant properties, dilapidations provisions and asset retirement obligation provisions.
The calculation of the value in use of the leased properties to the Group is based on the same assumptions for growth rates and expected changes to future cash flows as those for Group owned properties, as discussed in detail in Note 11, discounted at the appropriate risk free rate.
The cost of exiting lease contracts is estimated as the present value of expected surrender premiums or deficits from subletting at market rents, assuming that the Group can sublet properties at market rents, based on discounting at the appropriate risk adjusted rate.
For some leases, termination of the lease at the break clause requires the Group to either purchase the property or buy out the equity ownership of the property at fair value.
No value is attributed to the purchase conditions since they are at fair value.
It is also assumed that the Group is indifferent to purchasing the properties.
Based on the factors set out above, the Group has recognised a net onerous property provision charge in the year of 120m 2017: 61m, largely relating to onerous lease contracts for fully impaired properties and other onerous contracts relating to properties.
The Group has performed sensitivity analysis on the onerous lease provisions using reasonably possible scenarios based on recent market movements.
Neither a half a percentage point increase nor decrease in the risk-free rate would result in a material change to the onerous lease provisions.
Of the 120m net onerous property provision charge 153m charge, 33m release recognised in the year, a 105m charge has been recognised as an exceptional item: a 116m charge in cost of sales and 11m release in property-related items.
This is made up of a 108m charge classified as Net impairment reversal of non-current assets and onerous lease provisions, a 2m charge classified as Net restructuring and redundancy costs, and a 5m release classified as Property transactions.
Onerous lease provisions will be utilised over the relevant lease terms, predominantly within the next 25 years.
Restructuring provisions Of the 125m net charge 157m charge, 32m release recognised in the year, a 68m charge relating to UK & ROI changes to store and call centre colleague structures and working practices and a 34m charge relating to head office restructuring have been classified as exceptional items.
The exceptional provisions are expected to be utilised in the next financial year.
118 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 25 Provisions continued Other provisions Other provisions relate primarily to an ongoing court case with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Tesco PLC and Tesco Freetime Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking of the Group, initiated an appeal against HMRC regarding the treatment of VAT on Clubcard rewards.
In August 2017, the Groups appeal was upheld in the First Tier Tribunal.
As a result of the Tribunals decision, the Group recovered VAT and interest of 160m for periods up to 25 February 2017, which have been included within exceptional cash flows in Note 4.
A further 12m is recoverable in relation to the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018.
HMRC have appealed the Tribunals decision and as a result, the Group has recognised a provision of 176m for these amounts plus penalty interest, which would be due if HMRC were to be successful in their appeal.
Included in other provisions is a provision of 61m 2017: 91m to cover the cost of the compensation scheme and related costs, as agreed with the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
In the previous financial year, the Group agreed with the FCA under its statutory powers to establish a compensation scheme to compensate certain net purchasers of Tesco ordinary shares and listed bonds between 29 August 2014 and 19 September 2014 inclusive.
This charge was classified as an exceptional item in administrative expenses.
With the compensation scheme now closed to new claimants, 13m of the provision and 12m of related accruals were released to the Group income statement within exceptional items, classified as Release of amounts provided in relation to DPA and FCA obligations within administrative expenses.
Other provisions also include provisions for Tesco Bank customer redress in respect of potential complaints arising from the historic sales of PPI, and in respect of customer redress relating to instances where certain of the requirements of the CCA for post-contract documentation have not been fully complied with.
In each instance, management have exercised judgement as to both the timescale for implementing the redress campaigns and the final scope of any amounts payable.
During the year, an additional charge of 35m and a release of 1m was recognised in the Group income statement within exceptional items, classified as Provision for customer redress within cost of sales.
Other provisions are expected to be utilised in the next financial year when the outcome of the aforementioned matters have been reliably determined.
Note 26 Share-based payments For continuing operations, the Group income statement charge for the financial year recognised in respect of share-based payments is 252m 2017: 294m, which is made up of share option schemes and share bonus payments.
Of this amount, 128m 2017: 36m will be settled in equity and 124m 2017: 258m in cash.
The movement between cash and equity settled charge with reference to the prior year is predominantly due to a reclassification from equity to cash which took place in the prior financial year as a result of employees being offered the choice of cash settlement on a one-off award.
Share option schemes The Company had eight share option schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are equity settled schemes: i The Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 permits the grant to colleagues of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from colleagues of an amount between 5 and 500 per four-weekly period.
Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five year period at a subscription price of not less than 80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
ii The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000 permits the grant to ROI colleagues of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from colleagues of an amount between 12 and 500 per four-weekly period.
iii The Executive Incentive Plan 2004 permitted the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected senior executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and 10 years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
iv The Executive Incentive Plan 2014 permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected senior executives as a proportion of annual bonus following the completion of a required service period and is dependent on the achievement of corporate performance and individual targets.
Full details of this plan can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
v The Performance Share Plan 2011 permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between the vesting date s set at grant and 10 years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
The vesting of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets over a three year period and or continuous employment.
vi The Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004 permitted the grant of approved, unapproved and international options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and 10 years from the date of grant at a price not less than the middle-market quotation or average middle-market quotations of an ordinary share for the dealing day or three dealing days preceding the date of grant.
The vesting of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the annual percentage growth in earnings per share over a sthree year period.
There were no discounted options granted under this scheme.
vii The Group Bonus Plan permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected senior executives as a proportion of annual bonus following the completion of a required service period and is dependent on the achievement of corporate performance and individual targets.
viii The Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
The average share price during the 52 weeks ended 24 February 2018 was 187.68p 2017: 184.26p.
The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo option pricing model.
The following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown.
No assumption has been made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise.
2018 2017 SAYE Nil cost SAYE Nil cost Expected dividend yield % 2.2-3.6% 1.4% Expected volatility % 29-32% 33% 29-32% 29-36% Risk-free interest rate % 0.9-1.0% 0.1-0.2% 0.4-0.7% 0.2-0.5% Expected life of option years 3 or 5 3-6 3 or 5 3-6 Weighted average fair value of options granted pence 41.86 68.04-180.35 53.14 61.00-159.64 Probability of forfeiture % 7-11% 10-11% Share price pence 187.00 180.35 211.00 159.04-196.84 Weighted average exercise price pence 168.00 190.00 120 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 26 Share-based payments continued Share option schemes continued Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Groups option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time.
In estimating the future volatility of the Companys share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option.
Share bonus and incentive schemes Selected executives participate in the Group Bonus Plan, a performance-related bonus scheme.
The amount paid to colleagues is based on a percentage of salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
Bonuses are awarded to selected executives who have completed a required service period and depend on the achievement of corporate and individual performance targets.
Selected executives participate in the Performance Share Plan 2011 and the Long Term Incentive Plan 2015.
Awards made under these plans will normally vest on the vesting date s set on the date of the award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets over a three year performance period and or continuous employment.
Eligible ROI colleagues are able to participate in a Share Bonus Scheme, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme.
Each year, colleagues may receive an award of either cash or shares based on a percentage of their earnings.
Shares awarded to colleagues through the Share Bonus Scheme are held in trust on behalf of employees for a period of at least two years and for a maximum period of three years.
The Executive Directors participate in short-term bonus and long-term incentive schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Full details of these schemes can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
The fair value of shares awarded under these schemes is their market value on the date of award.
Expected dividends are not incorporated into the fair value.
The number and weighted average fair value WAFV of share bonuses awarded during the financial year were: 2018 2017 Number of WAFV Number of WAFV shares pence shares pence Irish Share Bonus Scheme Group Bonus Plan 21,898,988 180.35 33,293,571 159.04 Performance Share Plan 24,638,938 180.94 61,533,740 161.82 Note 27 Post-employment benefits Pensions The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and funded defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution scheme, Tesco Retirement Savings Plan, is open to all Tesco employees in the UK.
A defined contribution pension scheme is one under which members pay contributions to an independently administered fund, into which the Group also pays contributions based upon a fixed percentage of the members contributions.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions to this fund once its initial contributions have been paid.
Members benefits upon retirement are then determined by the amount of contributions paid into the fund, together with the performance of the investments into which those contributions have been invested.
Members are able to choose the investments into which their contributions are invested, as well as how they wish to receive benefits upon retirement.
As a result, any risks associated with either the future value of benefits or the performance of the assets invested lie with the member.
The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of 316m 2017: 341m have been recognised in the Group income statement.
This includes 108m 2017: 135m of salaries paid as pension contributions.
Defined benefit plans The most significant defined benefit plans are those for the Groups employees in the UK closed to future accrual and ROI.
The UK defined benefit deficit represents 96% of the Group deficit 2017: 98%.
United Kingdom The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme the Scheme, which is a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the assets of which are held as a segregated fund and administered by the Trustee.
The Scheme is established under trust law and has a corporate trustee that is required to run the Scheme in accordance with the Schemes Trust Deed and Rules and to comply with all relevant legislation.
Responsibility for governance of the Scheme lies with the Trustee.
The Trustee is a company whose directors comprise: i representatives of the Group: and ii representatives of the Scheme participants, in accordance with its articles of association and UK pension law.
The Group considers two measures of the Scheme deficit.
The accounting position is shown on the Group balance sheet.
The funding position, calculated at the triennial actuarial assessment, is used to agree contributions made to the Scheme.
The two measures will vary because they are for different purposes, and are calculated at different dates and in different ways.
The key calculation difference is that the funding position considers the expected returns of Scheme assets when calculating the Scheme liability, whereas the accounting position calculated under IAS 19 discounts liabilities based on corporate bond yields.
During the financial year an independent actuary carried out the latest triennial actuarial assessment of the Scheme as at 31 March 2017 using the projected unit credit method.
At 31 March 2017, the funding position was a deficit of 3,016m.
The market value of the Schemes assets was 13,141m and these assets represented 81% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in pensions in payment.
Following this assessment, an update to the plan to fund the UK pension deficit and to meet the expenses of the Scheme was agreed with the Trustee.
Annual contributions will increase from 270m to 285m commencing April 2018.
The annual contribution will be paid for 10 years, with contributions being assessed at the next Triennial review.
The expenses for the year, which include the Pension Protection Fund levy, were 25m 2017: 22m.
In the event that the Pension Protection Fund levy for the Scheme exceeds 75m over three years, the Group has agreed to pay this excess amount to the Scheme over the following three years.
In addition, the market value of assets held as security in favour of the Scheme has increased from 500m to 575m.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 121 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 27 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans continued Maturity profile of obligations The estimated duration of the Scheme obligations is an indicator of the weighted average term of benefit payments after discounting.
For the Scheme this is 25 years.
Over 50% of the undiscounted benefits are due to be paid beyond 30 years time, with the last payments expected to be over 80 years from now.
The estimated undiscounted benefit payments expected to be paid out over the life of the Scheme is shown below: 000m 5 4 3 2 1 0 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 61-65 66-70 70 Years Deferred members Current pensioners The liabilities held by the Scheme as at 31 March 2017, the date of the last triennial valuation, are broken down as follows: % Deferred 81 Pensioner 19 Risks The Group bears a number of risks in relation to the Scheme, which are described below: Risk Description of risk Mitigation Investment The Schemes accounting liabilities are calculated The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the funding position using a discount rate set with reference to corporate and operate a diversified investment strategy.
If the return on the Schemes assets The Trustee and the Group take a balanced approach to investment underperform this rate, the accounting deficit risk, and use a long-term plan to manage investment risk.
If the Schemes assets underperform the expected return for the funding valuation, this may require additional contributions to be made by the Group.
Inflation The Schemes benefit obligations are linked to As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to mitigate inflation.
A higher rate of expected long-term this risk through investment in a liability-driven investment inflation will therefore lead to higher liabilities, LDI portfolio.
both for the IAS 19 and funding liability.
The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as inflation If the Schemes funding liability increases, this expectation increases.
This mitigates the impact of any adverse may require additional contributions to be made movement in long-term inflation expectations.
The Schemes holdings are designed to hedge against inflation risk up to the value of the funded liabilities.
Additionally, changes to future benefits were introduced in June 2012 to reduce the Schemes exposure to inflation risk by changing the basis for calculating the rate of increase in pensions to CPI previously RPI.
Interest rate A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the As part of the investment strategy, the Trustee aims to mitigate accounting deficit under IAS 19.
Similarly, a decrease this risk through investment in a LDI portfolio.
in gilt yields will have an adverse impact on the funding The portfolio invests in assets which increase in value as interest position of the Scheme.
This may lead to additional rates decrease.
The Schemes holdings are designed to hedge contributions being made by the Group.
against interest rate risk up to the value of the funded liabilities.
Because the aim of the portfolio is to mitigate risk for the funding position, ineffectiveness in hedging for the accounting deficit under IAS 19 can arise where corporate bond and gilt yields diverge.
This is partially offset by Scheme holdings in corporate bonds.
Life expectancy The Schemes obligations are to provide benefits To reduce this risk, changes to future benefits were introduced in for the life of the member and so increases in life June 2012 to increase the age at which members can take their full expectancy will lead to higher liabilities.
The Trustee and the Group regularly monitor the impact of changes in longevity on Scheme obligations.
The Operations and Audit Pensions Committee was established to further strengthen the Groups Trustee Governance and provide greater oversight and stronger internal control over the Groups risks.
Further mitigation of the risks is provided by external advisors and the Trustee who consider the funding position, fund performance and impacts of any regulatory changes.
122 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 27 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans continued UK principal assumptions Financial assumptions During the financial year, the Group has taken actuarial advice and decided to change the model used for deriving the discount rate assumption for valuing the Schemes liabilities under IAS 19.
The standard requires the discount rate to be determined by reference to market yields of high quality corporate bonds of suitable currency and term to the Scheme cash flows.
The standard does not specify the approach that should be taken to extrapolate current market rates along the yield curve when there are no suitable corporate bonds of sufficient duration.
As the term of the Schemes liabilities is particularly long, the Group balance sheet is sensitive to the extrapolation approach adopted.
Under the previous model, the extrapolation was in line with the movement in the gilt yield curve.
The model now adopted by the Group extrapolates based on the trend observable in corporate bond yields.
In the Groups view, this more appropriately reflects long-dated corporate bond yields for the cash flow profile of the Schemes liabilities.
The impact of the change in discount rate model was to give a 2.0bn gain on change of financial assumptions at the point of the transition.
If the transition had occurred at the balance sheet date, the gain would have been 1.3bn.
The major assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by the actuaries to value the defined benefit obligation were as follows: 2018 2017 % % Discount rate 2.9 2.5 Price inflation 3.1 3.2 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.1 2.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 2.9 3.0 Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 2.2 2.2 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
Mortality assumptions The Group, in consultation with an independent actuary, conducted a mortality analysis under the Scheme as part of the triennial actuarial valuation process.
Subsequent to this analysis, the Group adopted the best estimate assumptions for the calculation of the IAS 19 pension liability for the main UK scheme.
The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been projected to 2017 with CMI 2016 improvements.
In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements from 2017 is in line with CMI 2016 improvements, with a long-term improvement rate of 1.25% per annum.
The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the reporting date and a member reaching age 65 at reporting date 25 years.
A comparison between the two retiree dates illustrates the expected improvements in mortality over the time period.
2018 2017 Years Years Retiring at reporting date at age 65: Male 22.3 23.2 Female 24.0 24.5 Retiring at reporting date 25 years at age 65: Male 23.8 25.5 Female 26.0 26.9 The base tables used in calculating the mortality assumptions are different for various categories of members, as shown below: Pensioner Non-Pensioner Male Staff 100% of SAPS S2 Normal 105% of SAPS S2 Normal Senior Manager 85% of SAPS S2 Normal Light 87% of SAPS S2 Normal Light Female Staff 100% of SAPS S2 All 98% of SAPS S2 All Senior Manager 85% of SAPS S2 All 86% of SAPS S2 All Sensitivity analysis of significant actuarial assumptions The sensitivity of significant assumptions upon the UK defined benefit obligations are detailed below: 2018 2017 Discount rate Inflation rate Discount rate Inflation rate Financial assumptions Increase decrease in UK defined benefit obligation m m m m Impact of 0.1% increase of the assumption 388 339 526 448 Impact of 0.1% decrease of the assumption 404 323 545 409 Impact of 1.0% increase of the assumption 3,377 3,651 4,536 4,984 Impact of 1.0% decrease of the assumption 4,718 2,876 6,541 3,835 2018 2017 Mortality assumptions Increase decrease in UK defined benefit obligation m m Impact of 1 year increase in longevity 630 818 Impact of 1 year decrease in longevity 630 818 Sensitivities are calculated by changing the relevant assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivities reflect the range of recent assumption movements, and illustrate that the financial assumption sensitivities do not move in a linear fashion.
Movements in the defined benefit obligation from discount rate and inflation rate changes may be partially offset by movements in assets.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 123 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 27 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans continued Overseas The most significant overseas scheme is the funded defined benefit scheme which operates in ROI.
An independent actuary, using the projected unit credit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the ROI scheme as at 24 February 2018.
At the financial year end, the accounting deficit relating to ROI was 104m 2017: 107m.
The accounting valuation has been based on the most recent actuarial valuation and updated by independent actuaries to take account of the requirements of the applicable accounting standard in order to assess the liabilities of the scheme as at 24 February 2018.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values as at 24 February 2018.
The liabilities relating to retirement healthcare benefits have also been determined in accordance with the applicable accounting standard.
Post-employment benefits other than pensions The Group operates a scheme offering post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The liability as at 24 February 2018 of 11m 2017: 13m was determined in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
During the financial year, nil 2017: nil has been charged to the Group income statement and 1m 2017: 1m of benefits were paid.
Plan assets The Groups pension schemes hold assets that both provide returns and mitigate risk, including the volatility of future pension payments.
The LDI category, previously disclosed within Government bonds, consists of assets, including gilts and index-linked gilts, of the value of 5,912m 2017: 5,586m and associated repurchase agreements and swaps of 2,635 m 2017: 1,837 m. The plan assets include 185m 2017: 176m relating to property used by the Group.
Group property with net carrying value of 509m 2017: 411m Note 11 and a value to the Scheme of 575m 2017: 500m is held as security in favour of the Scheme.
124 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 27 Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit plans continued Movement in the Group pension deficit during the financial year Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension assets, including all movements of discontinued operations up to classification as held for sale, are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening fair value of defined benefit pension assets 13,196 10,302 Interest income 326 385 Return on plan assets less greater than discount rate 57 2,689 Contributions by employer 34 28 Additional contributions by employer 245 248 Actual member contributions 2 2 Foreign currency translation 8 13 Benefits paid 519 471 Closing fair value of defined benefit pension assets 13,235 13,196 Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligations, including all movements of discontinued operations up to classification as held for sale, are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Opening defined benefit pension obligations 19,817 13,477 Current service cost 38 35 Interest cost 488 498 Gains losses on change of financial assumptions 2,190 6,455 Experience gains 452 199 Gains on changes of demographic assumptions 680 Foreign currency translation 13 25 Benefits paid 519 471 Actual member contributions 2 2 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 5 Closing defined benefit pension obligations 16,517 19,817 A summary of changes in the Group deficit, including movements of discontinued operations up to classification as held for sale, is set out below: 2018 2017 m m Deficit in schemes at the beginning of the year 6,621 3,175 Current service cost 38 35 Net pension finance cost 162 113 Contributions by employer 34 28 Additional contributions by employer 245 248 Foreign currency translation 5 12 Remeasurements 3,265 3,567 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 5 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year 3,282 6,621 Deferred tax asset Note 6 554 1,122 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year, net of deferred tax 2,728 5,499 The amounts that have been charged to the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income loss, excluding discontinued operations, are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit: Current service cost 38 35 Total charge to operating profit 38 35 Analysis of the amount credited charged to finance income cost : Interest on defined benefit pension assets 326 385 Interest on defined benefit pension obligations 488 498 Net pension finance cost Note 5 162 113 Total charge to the Group income statement 200 148 Analysis of the amount recognised in other comprehensive income: Return on plan assets less greater than discount rate 57 2,689 Experience gains on defined benefit pension obligations 452 199 Demographic assumption gains on defined benefit pension obligations 680 Financial assumption gains losses on defined benefit pension obligations 2,190 6,455 Foreign currency translation 5 12 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 3,260 3,579 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 125 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 27 Post-employment benefits continued IFRIC 14 IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction is a supplement to IAS 19 which can, in some instances, require companies to limit pension surpluses where they exist, or recognise additional liabilities relating to minimum funding requirements.
The Group is not required to recognise any additional liabilities, as any future economic benefits will be available to the Group by way of future refunds or reductions to future contributions.
Note 28 Called up share capital 2018 2017 Ordinary shares of 5 pence each Ordinary shares of 5 pence each Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid: At the beginning of the year 8,174,932,553 409 8,141,083,114 407 Share options exercised 5,184,066 849,439 Share bonus awards issued 12,000,000 1 33,000,000 2 At the end of the year 8,192,116,619 410 8,174,932,553 409 During the financial year, 5.2 million 2017: 0.8 million ordinary shares of 5 pence each were issued in relation to share options for an aggregate consideration of 8m 2017: 1m and 12.0 million 2017: 33.0 million ordinary shares of 5 pence each were issued in relation to share bonus awards.
The Group has implemented a share forfeiture programme following the completion of a tracing and notification exercise to any shareholders who have not had contact with the Company over the past 12 years, in accordance with the provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the share forfeiture programme the shares and dividends associated with shares of untraced members have been forfeited, with the resulting proceeds transferred to the Group to use for good causes in line with the Groups corporate responsibility strategy.
During the financial year, the Group received 3m proceeds from sale of untraced shares and 2m write-back of unclaimed dividends, which are reflected in share premium and retained earnings respectively.
As at 24 February 2018, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 817.5 million 2017: 814.1 million ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
On 5 March 2018, the Group completed a merger with the Booker Group.
A total of 1,548 million new ordinary shares of the Company have been issued as a result of the transaction.
See Note 35 for further details.
Note 29 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: Transactions Joint ventures Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Sales to related parties 474 418 Purchases from related parties 396 416 18 16 Dividends received 15 17 11 11 Injection of equity funding 21 Sales to related parties consist of services management fees and loan interest.
Purchases from related parties include 275m 2017: 286m of rentals payable to the Groups joint ventures including those joint ventures formed as part of the sale and leaseback programme.
Transactions between the Group and the Groups pension plans are disclosed in Note 27.
Balances Joint ventures Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts owed to related parties 20 17 Amounts owed by related parties 27 16 Loans to related parties net of deferred profits 138 137 Loans from related parties Note 21 6 6 Loans to related parties of 138m 2017: 137m are presented net of deferred profits of 54m 2017: 54m historically arising from the sale of property assets to joint ventures.
A number of the Groups subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 Regulations apply.
The financial statements for those partnerships have been consolidated into these financial statements pursuant to Regulation 7 of the Regulations.
126 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 29 Related party transactions continued Transactions with key management personnel Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.
Key management personnel compensation for the financial year was as follows: 2018 2017 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 17 13 Pensions and cash in lieu of pensions 2 2 Share-based payments 19 17 Joining costs and loss of office costs 4 1 42 33 Attributable to: The Board of Directors including Non-executive Directors 12 12 Executive Committee members not on the Board of Directors 30 21 42 33 Of the key management personnel who had transactions with Tesco Bank during the financial year, the following are the balances at the financial year end: Credit card, mortgage and Current and saving personal loan balances deposit accounts Number of key Number of key management management personnel m personnel m At 24 February 2018 7 1 5 At 25 February 2017 6 1 4 Note 30 Analysis of changes in net debt Reclassifications Non-cash of movements At Foreign Interest Other movements in net debt of At 25 February Fair value exchange income non-cash Turkey the disposal 24 February 2017 Cash flow movements movements charge movements disposal group 2018 m m m m m m m m m Total Group Bank and other borrowings 11,712 3,408 91 49 56 73 73 8,318 Finance lease payables 114 10 2 16 122 Net derivative financial instruments 893 253 195 20 465 Arising from financing activities 10,933 3,165 104 51 36 16 73 73 7,975 Cash and cash equivalents 3,821 212 15 11 4,059 Short-term investments 2,727 1,697 1 1,029 Joint venture loans 137 1 138 Interest and other receivables 1 27 27 1 Interest payables 167 351 3 362 3 3 181 Net derivative interest 28 23 11 16 Net debt of the disposal group 65 65 Total Group 4,451 1,981 104 40 360 15 76 2,913 Tesco Bank Bank and other borrowings 1,440 150 6 1,584 Net derivative financial instruments 105 63 42 Arising from financing activities 1,545 150 69 1,626 Cash and cash equivalents 789 515 1,304 Joint venture loans 34 34 Interest payables 4 4 Tesco Bank 722 369 69 4 288 Retail Bank and other borrowings 10,272 3,558 85 49 56 73 73 6,734 Finance lease payables 114 10 2 16 122 Net derivative financial instruments 998 253 258 20 507 Arising from financing activities 9,388 3,315 173 51 36 16 73 73 6,349 Cash and cash equivalents 3,032 303 15 11 2,755 Short-term investments 2,727 1,697 1 1,029 Joint venture loans 103 1 104 Interest and other receivables 1 27 27 1 Interest payables 167 347 3 358 3 3 181 Net derivative interest 28 23 11 16 Net debt of the disposal group 65 65 Net debt 3,729 1,612 173 40 356 15 76 2,625 Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that of discontinued operations.
Balances and movements in respect of the total Group and Tesco Bank are presented to allow reconciliation between the Group balance sheet and the Group cash flow statement.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 127 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 30 Analysis of changes in net debt continued Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in Net debt 2018 2017 m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 212 881 Elimination of Tesco Bank movement in cash and cash equivalents 515 235 Retail cash movement in other Net debt items: Net increase decrease in short-term investments 1,697 736 Net increase decrease in joint venture loans 15 Net increase decrease in borrowings and lease financing 3,568 1,863 Net cash flows from derivative financial instruments 253 475 Net interest paid on components of Net debt 297 477 Change in Net debt resulting from cash flow 1,612 1,760 Retail net interest charge on components of Net debt 356 472 Retail fair value and foreign exchange movements 213 111 Debt disposed on disposal of Turkish operations 76 Retail other non-cash movements 15 18 Increase decrease in Net debt 1,104 1,381 Opening Net debt 3,729 5,110 Closing Net debt 2,625 3,729 Note 31 Business combinations and disposals Business combinations The Group has paid a further 25m of deferred consideration in the financial year, related to its obligations under the purchase agreement for the acquisition of Sociomantic Labs from prior years.
On 26 October 2017, the Group obtained sole control of Tesco Mobile Ireland Limited TMI, previously accounted for as a joint venture, through acquisition of Three Ireland Limiteds Three 50% interest in TMI.
The Group paid 2m to Three for their 50% interest and recognised a gain of 3m.
The TMI acquisition generated goodwill of 4m.
Disposals On 1 March 2017, the Group announced the completion of the disposal of its 95.5% controlling stake in the Kipa business in Turkey following the receipt of all local regulatory approvals.
See Note 7 for further details.
On 30 June 2017, the Group disposed of its 8.8% shareholding in Lazada to Alibaba Group Holding Limited Alibaba for net cash consideration of $254m 196m.
The Groups investment in Lazada was recognised as an available-for-sale financial asset and classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
At the time of the disposal, the investment was revalued resulting in a gain of 70m recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income loss.
The available-for-sale reserve, including 54m recorded prior to the current year, was reclassified to the Group income statement resulting in a pre-tax profit on disposal of 124m.
The disposal was subject to capital gains tax of 25m, which has been recognised as a reduction in the Groups deferred tax asset.
The transaction has been included within exceptional items, classified as Investment disposal within administrative expenses.
On 4 December 2017, the Group disposed of the trade and assets of its opticians business to Vision Express UK Ltd for net cash consideration of 45m, resulting in a pre-tax profit of 38m included within exceptional items, which was classified as Disposal of opticians business within administrative expenses.
Included in the pre-tax profit is 3m contingent consideration.
Note 32 Commitments and contingencies Capital commitments At 24 February 2018, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not incurred, of 116m 2017: 115m, principally relating to store development.
Contingent liabilities There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
The Group recognises provisions for liabilities when it is more likely than not that a settlement will be required and the value of such a payment can be reliably estimated.
For details of assets held under finance leases, which are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities, see Note 11.
As previously reported, law firms in the UK have announced the intention of forming claimant groups to commence litigation against the Group for matters arising out of or in connection with its overstatement of expected profits in 2014, and purport to have secured third party funding for such litigation.
In this regard, the Group has received two High Court claims against Tesco PLC.
The first was received on 31 October 2016 from a group of 112 investors now reduced to 78 investors and the second was received on 5 December 2016 from an investment company and a trust company.
The merit, likely outcome and potential impact on the Group of any such litigation that either has been or might potentially be brought against the Group is subject to a number of significant uncertainties and therefore, the Group cannot make any assessment of the likely outcome or quantum of any such litigation as at the date of this disclosure.
Prior to the disposal of its Korean operations Homeplus, Tesco PLC provided guarantees in respect of 13 Homeplus lease agreements in Korea in the event of termination of the relevant lease agreement by the landlord due to Homeplus default.
Entities controlled by MBK and CPPIB, as the purchasers of Homeplus, undertook to procure Tesco PLCs release from these guarantees following the disposal of Homeplus.
This liability decreases over time with all relevant leases expiring in the period between 2026 and 2033.
Tesco PLC has the benefit of an indemnity from the purchasers of Homeplus for any claims made under such guarantees.
The maximum potential liability under the lease guarantees is between KRW366bn 243m and KRW517bn 344m.
Tesco Stores Limited has received claims from current and former Tesco store colleagues alleging that their work is of equal value to that of colleagues working in Tescos distribution centres and that differences in terms and conditions relating to pay are not objectively justifiable.
The claimants are seeking the differential between the pay terms looking back, and equivalence of pay terms moving forward.
At present, the likely number of claims that may be received and the merit, likely outcome and potential impact on the Group of any such litigation is subject to a number of significant uncertainties and therefore, the Group cannot make any assessment of the likely outcome or quantum of any such litigation as at the date of this disclosure.
There are substantial factual and legal defences to these claims and the Group intends to defend them.
128 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 32 Commitments and contingencies continued Subsidiary audit exemptions The following UK subsidiary undertakings are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of that Act.
Company Company Company Name number Name number Name number Tesco International Internet 00041420 Spen Hill Management Limited 02460426 Tesco Aqua FinCo1 Limited 05888959 Retailing Limited One Stop Convenience 02467178 Armitage Finance ULC 05966324 Dillons Newsagents Limited 00140624 Stores Limited Spen Hill Regeneration Limited 06418300 One Stop Community 00198980 Nutricentre Limited 02602894 Halesworth SPV Limited 06479506 Stores Limited Harts the Grocers 03044236 Tesco PENL Limited 06479938 Paper Chain East Anglia Limited 00256555 Russel Square Limited Cheshunt Finance Unlimited 06807552 Cullens Stores Limited 00279206 Tesco Overseas Limited 01611684 Tesco FFC Limited 08859202 Stewarts Supermarkets Limited 00299400 Tesco Mobile Communications Limited 04780729 Tesco Aqua 3LP Limited 09947521 Europa Foods Limited 00658774 Tesco Mobile Services Limited 04780734 Tesco Red 3LP Limited 10127765 Verulam Properties Limited 00726573 Spen Hill Developments Limited 04827219 The Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership LP011520 Gibbs News Limited 00744680 Tapesilver Limited 05205362 The Tesco Red Limited Partnership LP011522 T&S Stores Limited 01228935 Launchgrain Limited 05260856 Faraday Properties Limited SC119496 Day and Nite Stores Limited 01746058 Buttoncable Limited 05294246 WM.
Low Supermarkets Limited SC119497 Adminstore Limited 01882853 Buttoncase Limited 05298861 Tesco PLC will guarantee all outstanding liabilities that these subsidiaries are subject to as at the financial year ended 24 February 2018 in accordance with section 479C of the Act, as amended by the Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships Accounts and Audit Exemptions and Change of Accounting Framework Regulations 2012.
Tesco PLC has irrevocably guaranteed the liabilities and commitments of the following Irish subsidiary undertakings, which undertakings have been exempted pursuant to Section 357 of the Companies Act, 2014 of Ireland from the provisions of Section 347 & 348 of that Act: Monread Developments Limited: Edson Properties Limited: Edson Investments Limited: Cirrus Finance 2009 Limited: Commercial Investments Limited: Chirac Limited: Clondalkin Properties Limited: Tesco Ireland Pension Trustees Limited: Orpingford: Tesco Trustee Company of Ireland Limited: WSC Properties Limited: Thundridge: Pharaway Properties Limited: R. J. D. Holdings: Nabola Development Limited: PEJ Property Investments Limited: Cirrus Finance Limited: Tesco Ireland Limited: Wanze Properties Dundalk Limited: Tesco Ireland Holdings Limited: Marine Coffee Company Nominees Limited: Marine Coffee Company Holdings Limited: and Tesco Mobile Ireland Limited.
Tesco Bank At 28 February 2018, Tesco Bank had contractual lending commitments totalling 12.4bn 2017: 12.1bn.
The contractual amounts represent the amounts that would be at risk should the available facilities be fully drawn upon and not the amounts at risk at the reporting date.
Note 33 Tesco Bank capital resources The following tables analyse the regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance PLC TPF, being the regulated entity at the balance sheet date: 2018 2017 m m Common equity tier 1 capital: Shareholders funds and non-controlling interests, net of tier 1 regulatory adjustments 1,491 1,381 Tier 2 capital: Qualifying subordinated debt 235 235 Other interests 99 63 Total tier 2 regulatory adjustments 34 31 Total regulatory capital 1,791 1,648 On 27 June 2013, the final CRD IV rules were published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Following the publication of the CRD IV rules, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA issued a policy statement on 19 December 2013 detailing how the rules will be enacted within the UK with corresponding timeframes for implementation.
The CRD IV rules are currently being phased in.
The following tables analyse the regulatory capital resources of TPF being the regulated entity applicable as at the financial year end.
The movement of common equity tier 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2018 2017 m m At the beginning of the year 1,381 1,218 Share capital and share premium Profit attributable to shareholders 130 153 Other reserves 6 5 Ordinary dividends 50 50 Movement in material holdings 3 3 Increase in intangible assets 29 64 Other Tier 1 1 At the end of the year, excluding CRD IV adjustments 1,499 1,394 CRD IV adjustments deferred tax assets liabilities related to intangible assets 8 13 At the end of the year, including CRD IV adjustments 1,491 1,381 It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, the Group has regard to the supervisory requirements of the PRA.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 129 Notes to the Group financial statements continued Note 34 Lease commitments Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings.
There are also a small number of buildings that are held under finance leases.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximate their carrying value.
Future minimum lease commitments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease commitments, are as follows: Minimum lease commitments 2018 2017 m m Within one year 20 19 Greater than one year but less than five years 67 57 After five years 120 126 Total minimum lease commitments 207 202 Less future finance charges 85 88 Present value of minimum lease commitments 122 114 Present value of net minimum lease commitments 2018 2017 m m Within one year 12 11 Greater than one year but less than five years 40 30 After five years 70 73 Total minimum lease commitments 122 114 Analysed as: Current 12 11 Non-current 110 103 122 114 Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 1,077 1,199 Greater than one year but less than five years 3,552 3,767 After five years 6,788 7,395 Total minimum lease commitments 11,417 12,361 Future minimum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases after five years are analysed further as follows: 2018 2017 m m Greater than five years but less than ten years 3,035 3,161 Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 2,008 2,225 After fifteen years 1,745 2,009 Total minimum lease commitments after five years 6,788 7,395 The Group has used operating lease commitments discounted at 7% 2017: 7% of 6,931m 2017: 7,440m in its calculation of total indebtedness.
The discounted operating lease commitment included in total indebtedness is not an appropriate proxy for the expected impact of recognising a lease liability under IFRS 16 Leases, primarily due to differences in the discount rates used and the treatment of additional lease rentals arising from contracts that contain extend or buy conditions, amongst other differences.
Operating lease commitments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor vehicles.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Purchase options and renewal rights, where they occur, are at market value.
Escalation clauses are in line with market practices and include inflation linked, fixed rates, resets to market rents and hybrids of these.
130 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Note 34 Lease commitments continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessee continued The Group has lease-break options on certain sale and leaseback transactions.
These options are exercisable if the Group exercises an existing option to buy back, at market value and at a specified date, either the leased asset or the equity of the other joint venture partner.
No commitment has been included in respect of the buy-back option as the option is at the Groups discretion.
The Group is not obliged to pay lease rentals after that date, therefore minimum lease commitments exclude those falling after the buy-back date.
The current market value of these properties is 2.8bn 2017: 2.9bn and the total undiscounted lease rentals, if they were to be incurred following the option exercise date, would be 2.6bn 2017: 2.6bn using current rent values, as shown below.
The additional lease rentals, if incurred, following the option exercise date would be as follows: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 2 23 Greater than one year but less than five years 265 170 Greater than five years but less than ten years 738 709 Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 659 670 After fifteen years 935 1,019 Total undiscounted contingent additional lease rentals 2,599 2,591 Total discounted contingent additional lease rentals at 7% 1,159 1,107 The lease break options are exercisable between 2018 and 2023.
Operating lease commitments with joint ventures and associates In prior years, the Group entered into several joint ventures and associates, and sold and leased back properties to and from these joint ventures and associates.
The terms of these sale and leasebacks varied.
However, common factors included: the sale of the properties to the joint venture or associate at market value: options within the lease for the Group to repurchase the properties at market value: market rent reviews: and 20 to 30 full-year lease terms.
The Group reviews the substance as well as the form of the arrangements when determining the classification of leases as operating or finance.
All of the leases under these arrangements are operating leases.
Operating lease receivables Group as lessor The Group both rents out its properties and also sublets various leased buildings under operating leases.
At the balance sheet date, the following future minimum lease amounts are contractually receivable from tenants: 2018 2017 m m Within one year 202 194 Greater than one year but less than five years 291 298 After five years 222 229 Total minimum lease receivables 715 721 Note 35 Events after the reporting period Booker Group PLC On 27 January 2017, the Group announced that it had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended share and cash merger with Booker Group PLC, the UKs leading food wholesaler, subject to shareholder and regulatory approvals.
Following an in-depth Phase 2 investigation by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA, regulatory approval was granted on 20 December 2017.
Shareholder approval was obtained on 28 February 2018 and the transaction completed on 5 March 2018.
The transaction will be treated as an acquisition, with the merger meeting the definition of a business combination per IFRS 3.
The merger builds on the Groups core expertise of sourcing, distributing and selling food in the UK market and will enable the Group to enter the faster growing out of home food consumption market.
The Directors expect the merger to deliver financial synergies of at least 200m per annum by the end of the third year following completion.
The consideration of 3,893m was satisfied by cash of 766m and shares of 3,127m, with Booker Group PLC shareholders receiving 0.861 Tesco PLC ordinary shares and 42.6 pence in cash per Booker Group PLC share held.
A total of 1,548 million new ordinary shares of the Company have been issued as a result of the transaction, with the new shares carrying equal voting and distribution rights as the existing ordinary shares.
The fair value of the shares is based on the published share price on 2 March 2018 of 202.0 pence.
Given the proximity of the transaction to the announcement of the Groups financial statements, a full purchase price allocation exercise has not yet been completed and the valuation of the assets acquired is subject to amendment on finalisation of the fair value exercise.
Acquired net assets have a provisional value of 543m prior to fair value adjustments.
This reflects the net assets of Booker Group PLC as at 8 September 2017, as disclosed in their most recent published financial information.
The remaining 3,350m will be allocated between intangible assets, including goodwill, software and other intangible assets, with the majority expected to be allocated to goodwill representing the synergies expected from the merger.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 131 Tesco PLC Parent Company balance sheet 24 February 25 February 2018 2017 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments 6 13,093 13,082 Receivables 7 20 18 Derivative financial instruments 12 952 1,274 14,065 14,374 Current assets Derivative financial instruments 12 155 Receivables 7 6,625 7,469 Short-term investments 8 369 1,398 Cash and cash equivalents 9 793 790 7,787 9,812 Current liabilities Borrowings 11 693 840 Payables 10 4,767 4,978 5,460 5,818 Net current assets 2,327 3,994 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 11 3,632 5,440 Derivative financial instruments 12 488 466 4,120 5,906 Net assets 12,272 12,462 Equity Share capital 15 410 409 Share premium 5,107 5,096 All other reserves 62 162 Retained earnings including profit loss for the financial year of 136 m 2017: 247 m 6,693 6,795 Total equity 12,272 12,462 The notes on pages 134 to 139 form part of these financial statements.
Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Directors The Parent Company financial statements on pages 132 to 139 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 10 April 2018 and are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the AGM on 15 June 2018.
Tesco PLC Registered number 00445790 132 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Tesco PLC Parent Company statement of changes in equity All other reserves Capital Share Share redemption Hedging Treasury Retained Total capital premium reserves reserves shares earnings equity m m m m m m m At 25 February 2017 409 5,096 16 168 22 6,795 12,462 Loss for the year 136 136 Other comprehensive income loss Net fair value gains losses on cash flow hedges 5 5 Reclassified and reported in the Company income statement 127 127 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 26 26 Total other comprehensive income loss 106 106 Total comprehensive income loss 106 136 242 Transactions with owners Purchase of treasury shares 14 14 Share-based payments 20 114 134 Issue of shares 1 11 12 Dividends 80 80 Total transactions with owners 1 11 6 34 52 At 24 February 2018 410 5,107 16 62 16 6,693 12,272 All other reserves Capital Share Share redemption Hedging Treasury Retained Total capital premium reserves reserves shares earnings equity m m m m m m m At 27 February 2016 407 5,095 16 178 7 6,993 12,682 Loss for the year 247 247 Other comprehensive income loss Net fair value gains losses on cash flow hedges 166 166 Reclassified and reported in the Company income statement 162 162 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 14 14 Total other comprehensive income loss 10 10 Total comprehensive income loss 10 247 257 Transactions with owners Purchase of treasury shares 24 24 Share-based payments 9 49 58 Issue of shares 2 1 3 Dividends Total transactions with owners 2 1 15 49 37 At 25 February 2017 409 5,096 16 168 22 6,795 12,462 The notes on pages 134 to 139 form part of these financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 133
