Glossary Net debt: This excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank but includes that Alternative performance measures of the discontinued operations to reflect the net debt obligations of Introduction the Retail business.
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional various APMs.
items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial These measures are not defined by International Financial Reporting instruments: This relates to profit after tax before exceptional items from Standards IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with continuing operations, net pension finance costs and fair value other companies APMs, including those in the Groups industry.
remeasurements on financial instruments attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
Purpose Some of the Groups IFRS measures are translated at constant exchange The Directors believe that these APMs assist in providing additional useful rates.
Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
rates for the previous financial year and are used to eliminate the effects APMs are also used to enhance the comparability of information between of exchange rate fluctuations in assessing performance.
Actual exchange reporting periods and geographical units such as like-for-like sales, by rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial year.
adjusting for non-recurring or uncontrollable factors which affect IFRS Changes to APMs measures, to aid users in understanding the Groups performance.
During the financial year, the following changes have been applied to the Consequently, APMs are used by the Directors and management for Groups APMs: performance analysis, planning, reporting and incentive-setting purposes.
Free cash flow has been redefined to include all cash flows from operating The key APMs that the Group has focused on this financial year are as follows: and investing activities, and the market purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are excluded: investing cash flows that Group sales: This is the headline measure of revenue for the Group.
increase decrease items within Group net debt, and cash flows from major It excludes the impact of sales made at petrol filling stations due to the corporate acquisitions and disposals.
This measure reflects the cash available significant volatility of fuel prices.
This volatility is outside the control of to shareholders.
Previously, free cash flow only included capital expenditure management and can mask underlying changes in performance.
cash flows within investing activities.
Retail free cash flow is now considered Like-for-like sales: This is a widely used indicator of a retailers current a key APM.
It is a measure of growth in Group online sales and Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional sales from stores that have been open for at least a year but excludes prior items and net pension finance costs has been replaced with diluted earnings year sales of stores closed during the year at constant foreign exchange rates.
per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension Operating profit before exceptional items: This is the headline measure finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
Fair of the Groups performance, and is based on operating profit before the value remeasurements are now excluded as they are impacted by changes impact of exceptional items.
Exceptional items relate to certain costs or to credit risk and various market indices, which can fluctuate significantly.
incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal Also included in these items are fair value remeasurements on financial activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in instruments resulting from liability management exercises.
Other earnings aggregate, are excluded by virtue of their size and nature in order to per share measures before exceptional items are no longer considered reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
APMs and have been removed.
Retail operating cash flow: This is the operating cash flow of continuing Total indebtedness ratio and Fixed charge cover have been included as operations, excluding the effects of Tesco Banks cash flows.
EBITDAR has also been included as it is used to Retail free cash flow: Retail free cash flow includes all cash flows from calculate these debt metrics.
Total indebtedness ratio and Fixed charge operating and investing activities for the Retail business, and the market cover are measures of the Groups ability to meet its payment obligations purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are and are widely used by analysts and credit rating agencies.
excluded: investing cash flows that increase decrease items within Net debt, and cash flows from major corporate acquisitions and disposals.
Closest equivalent Adjustments to reconcile Note page reference Definition APM IFRS measure to IFRS measure for reconciliation and purpose Income statement Revenue measures Group sales Revenue Exclude sales made Note 2 Excludes the impact of sales made at petrol filling at petrol filling stations stations to demonstrate the Groups underlying performance in the core retail and financial services businesses by removing the volatilities associated with the movement in fuel prices.
This is a key management incentive metric.
Growth in sales No direct equivalent Consistent with Not applicable Growth in sales is a ratio that measures year-onaccounting policy year movement in Group sales for continuing operations for 52 weeks.
It shows the annual rate of increase in the Groups sales and is considered a good indicator of how rapidly the Groups core business is growing.
Like-for-like No direct equivalent Consistent with Not applicable Like-for-like is a measure of growth in Group online accounting policy sales and sales from stores that have been open for at least a year but excludes prior year sales of stores closed during the year at constant foreign exchange rates.
It is a widely used indicator of a retailers current trading performance and is important when comparing growth between retailers that have different profiles of expansion, disposals and closures.
150 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Other information Closest equivalent Adjustments to reconcile Note page reference Definition APM IFRS measure to IFRS measure for reconciliation and purpose Income statement Profit measures Operating profit Operating profit Exceptional items Note 2 Operating profit before exceptional items is the before exceptional headline measure of the Groups performance.
items It is based on operating profit before the impact of certain costs or incomes that derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the Group, but which are excluded by virtue of their size and nature in order to reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
Operating margin No direct equivalent Consistent with Not applicable Operating margin is calculated as operating profit accounting policy before exceptional items divided by revenue.
Progression in operating margin is an important indicator of the Groups operating efficiency.
Earnings before Operating profit Exceptional items Page 153 This measure is based on Retail operating profit exceptional items, Depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations before exceptional interest, tax, Rent expense items.
It excludes Retail depreciation, amortisation depreciation, Tesco Bank EBITDAR and rent expense and is used to derive the Total amortisation and rent Discontinued operations indebtedness ratio and Fixed charge cover APMs.
expense EBITDAR Profit before tax Profit before tax Exceptional items Note 9 This measure excludes exceptional items, the before exceptional Net pension finance costs IAS 19 net finance costs of the defined benefit pension items, net pension Fair value remeasurements on deficit and fair value remeasurements on financial finance costs and fair financial instruments IAS 39 instruments.
Net pension finance costs are value remeasurements impacted by corporate bond yields, which can on financial instruments fluctuate significantly and are reset each year based on often volatile external market factors.
Fair value remeasurements are impacted by changes to credit risk and various market indices, which can fluctuate significantly.
Also included in these items are fair value remeasurements on financial instruments resulting from liability management exercises.
Profits losses arising No direct equivalent Consistent with Not applicable Profits losses arising on property-related items on property-related accounting policy relates to the Groups property activities including: items gains and losses on disposal of property assets, development property built for resale and property joint ventures: costs resulting from changes in the Groups store portfolio and distribution network, including pre-opening and post-closure costs: and income charges associated with impairment of non-trading property and related onerous contracts.
These items are disclosed separately to clearly identify the impact of these items versus the other operating expenses related to the core retail and financial services operations of the business.
They are often one-time in nature and can have a disproportionate impact on profit between reporting periods.
Total finance costs Finance costs Exceptional items Note 5 Total finance costs before exceptional items, net before exceptional Net pension finance costs IAS 19 pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements items, net pension Fair value remeasurements on on financial instruments is the net finance costs finance costs and fair financial instruments IAS 39 adjusted for non-recurring one-off items, net value remeasurements pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments on financial instruments.
Net pension finance costs are impacted by corporate bond yields, which can fluctuate significantly and are reset each year based on often volatile external market factors.
Earnings per share Diluted earnings Exceptional items Note 9 This relates to profit after tax before exceptional from continuing per share Discontinued operations items from continuing operations, net pension operations before Net pension finance costs IAS 19 finance costs and fair value remeasurements exceptional items, Fair value remeasurements on attributable to owners of the parent divided by net pension finance financial instruments IAS 39 the weighted average number of ordinary shares costs and fair value in issue during the financial period.
remeasurements on It excludes net pension finance costs and fair financial instruments value remeasurements on financial instruments.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 151 Glossary continued Closest equivalent Adjustments to reconcile Note page reference Definition APM IFRS measure to IFRS measure for reconciliation and purpose Income statement Tax measures Effective tax Effective tax rate Exceptional items and their Note 6 Effective tax rate before exceptional items is rate before tax impact calculated as total income tax credit charge exceptional items excluding the tax impact of exceptional items divided by profit before tax before exceptional items.
This provides an indication of the ongoing tax rate across the Group.
Effective tax rate Effective tax rate Exceptional items and their Note 6 Effective tax rate before exceptional items, before exceptional tax impact net pension finance costs and fair value items, net pension Net pension finance costs remeasurements on financial instruments is finance costs and fair IAS 19 and their tax impact calculated as total income tax credit charge value remeasurements Fair value remeasurements on excluding the tax impact of exceptional items, on financial instruments financial instruments IAS 39 net pension finance costs and fair value and their tax impact remeasurements divided by the profit before tax before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements.
Balance sheet measures Net debt Borrowings less Net debt from Tesco Bank Note 30 Net debt excludes the net debt of Tesco Bank cash and related but includes that of the discontinued operations hedges to reflect the net debt obligations of the Retail business.
Net debt comprises bank and other borrowings, finance lease payables, net derivative financial instruments, joint venture loans and other receivables and net interest receivables payables, offset by cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
It is a useful measure of the progress in generating cash and strengthening of the Group balance sheet position and is a measure widely used by credit rating agencies.
Total indebtedness Borrowings less Net debt from Tesco Bank Page 14 of the Total indebtedness is Net debt plus the IAS 19 deficit cash and related Present value of future minimum Strategic report in the pension schemes net of associated deferred hedges lease payments under nontax plus the present value of future minimum lease cancellable operating leases payments under non-cancellable operating leases IAS 19 deficit in the pension to provide an overall view of the Groups obligations.
schemes It is an important measure of the long-term obligations of the Group and is a measure widely used by credit rating agencies.
Total indebtedness No direct equivalent Consistent with Page 153 Total indebtedness ratio is calculated as Total ratio accounting policy indebtedness divided by EBITDAR.
It is a measure of the Groups ability to meet its payment obligations and is widely used by analysts and credit rating agencies.
Fixed charge cover No direct equivalent Consistent with Page 153 Fixed charge cover is calculated as EBITDAR divided accounting policy by the sum of rent expense and net finance cost, excluding net pension finance costs, exceptional items, capitalised interest and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
Cash flow measures Retail operating Cash generated Tesco Bank operating cash flow Note 2 Retail operating cash flow is the cash generated cash flow from operating Discontinued operations from operations of continuing operations, activities excluding the effects of Tesco Banks cash flows.
It is a measure of the cash generation and working capital efficiency by the Retail business, recognising that Tesco Bank is run and regulated independently from the Retail operations, and a key measure to demonstrate the recovery of the Retail operations.
Free cash flow Cash generated Net cash generated from Note 2 Free cash flow includes all cash flows from operating from operating used in investing activities, and and investing activities, and the market purchase of activities the market purchase of shares shares in relation to share schemes.
The following in relation to share schemes items are excluded: investing cash flows that Investing cash flows that increase increase decrease items within Group net debt, decrease items within Group and cash flows from major corporate acquisitions net debt and disposals.
This measure reflects the cash Cash flows from major corporate available to shareholders.
acquisitions and disposals Retail free cash flow Cash generated Tesco Bank operating cash flow Note 2 Retail free cash flow includes all cash flows from from operating Retail net cash generated from operating and investing activities for the Retail activities used in investing activities, and business, and the market purchase of shares in the market purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are relation to share schemes excluded: investing cash flows that increase decrease Investing cash flows that increase items within Net debt, and cash flows from major decrease items within Net debt corporate acquisitions and disposals.
This measure Cash flows from major corporate reflects the cash available to shareholders.
acquisitions and disposals Operating profit is presented on the Group income statement.
It is not defined per IFRS, however is a generally accepted profit measure.
152 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Other information APMs: Reconciliation of debt metrics 2018 2017 EBITDAR Notes m m Operating profit loss from continuing operations before exceptional items 2 1,644 1,280 Less: Tesco Bank operating profit loss before exceptional items 2 173 157 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 2 1,295 1,298 Less: Tesco Bank depreciation and amortisation 2 83 118 Add: Retail operating lease expense 3 1,015 1,039 3,698 3,342 Total indebtedness ratio Notes 2018 2017 Net debt m 30 2,625 3,729 Add: Defined benefit pension deficit, net of deferred tax m 27 2,728 5,504 Add: Discounted operating lease commitments m 34 6,931 7,440 Total indebtedness m 12,284 16,673 EBITDAR m 3,698 3,342 Total indebtedness ratio 3.3 5.0 Fixed charge cover Notes 2018 2017 Net finance cost m 5 533 765 Less: Net pension finance costs m 5 162 113 Less: Exceptional foreign exchange losses on GBP short-term investments held in overseas entities m 5 38 244 Add: Capitalised interest m 5 2 6 Add: Fair value remeasurements on financial instruments IAS 39 m 5 23 61 Net finance cost, excluding net pension finance costs, exceptional items, capitalised interest and fair value 358 475 remeasurements on financial instruments IAS 39 m Add: Retail operating lease expense m 3 1,015 1,039 1,373 1,514 EBITDAR m 3,698 3,342 Fixed charge cover 2.7 2.2 Group operating lease expense of 1,018m 2017: 1,043m includes 3m 2017: 4m relating to Tesco Bank.
Other Capital expenditure Capex Net Promoter Score NPS The additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and This is a loyalty measure based on a single question requiring a score intangible assets excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
The NPS is calculated by subtracting the percentage of detractors scoring 0-6 from the percentage of promoters scoring 9-10.
Capital employed This generates a figure between -100 and 100 which is the NPS.
Net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Return on capital employed ROCE Return divided by the average of opening and closing capital employed.
Enterprise Value This is calculated as market capitalisation plus net debt.
Return Profit before exceptional items and interest, after tax applied at effective FTE rate of tax.
FTE refers to full-time equivalents.
RPI LPI RPI refers to Retail Price Index.
LPI refers to Limited Price Inflation.
Total shareholder return Market capitalisation The notional annualised return from a share, measured as the percentage The total value of all Tesco shares calculated as total number of shares change in the share price, plus the dividends paid with the gross dividends, multiplied by the closing share price at year-end.
This is measured over both a one and five year period.
MTN MTN refers to Medium Term Note.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 153
