186 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM WEBSITE The AGM will be held at Upper Ground Floor, North Building, The Groups corporate website, www.
com, provides 200Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD on 7 February 2019 at 10.30am.
information including: The last date for AGM proxy votes to be received by the Registrar news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements: is10.30am 5 February 2019. investor information, including the Annual Report, financial results, All Shareholders can submit their proxy vote for the AGM electronically financial calendar and share price information: at www.
To register their vote, Shareholders will need details of Shareholder meetings and poll results: the numbers detailed on their form of proxy.
biographies of the Board of Directors: the Companys Articles of Association and the Terms of Reference Alternatively, Shareholders who have already registered for the Committees of the Board and with Shareview can submit their proxy vote by logging on to the Sustainability reporting.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote underneath theirThomas Cook Group plc holding.
MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS ON THE SHARE REGISTER If a Shareholder receives two or more sets of the documents SHARE REGISTER AND SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES concerning the AGM, this means that there is more than one account The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
in their name on the Shareholder register, perhaps because either the Queries relating to Thomas Cook Group plc shares should be name or the address appears on each account in a slightly different addressed to: way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not amalgamate the accounts The Registrar without the Shareholders written consent.
Therefore, if a Shareholder Equiniti would like their multiple accounts to be combined, they should write Aspect House to Equiniti, detailing the different Shareholder reference numbers, and Spencer Road request that they be combined into one account.
Lancing ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0371 384 2154 At the AGM on 10 April 2008, the Company passed a resolution allowing International telephone number: 44 0 121 415 0182 the Groups corporate website to be used as the primary means of communication with its Shareholders.
Election forms are sent to Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm London time, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
Shareholders enabling them to choose either to: Shareholders should quote the Company reference number 3174 and receive notification by email when Shareholder documentation their Shareholder reference number which can be found on their isavailable on the website: or share certificates, when contacting the Registrar.
continue to receive Shareholder documentation in hard copy.
SHAREVIEW Shareholders who do not respond are deemed, in accordance with To be able to access information about their shares and other the Companies Act 2006, to have agreed to receive Shareholder investments online, Shareholders can register with Shareview documentation via the Companys corporate website.
Registration is free: Shareholders will These arrangements for electronic Shareholder communications need their Shareholder reference number which is shown on their provide Shareholders with the opportunity to access information form of proxy and share certificate.
By registering for this service, inatimely manner and help the Company to reduce both its costs Shareholders will: andits environmental impact.
help reduce paper, print and postage costs: help the environment: DIVIDEND be able to submit their queries by email: and Reflecting the overall net loss after tax reported by the Group, the be able to manage their shareholding easily and securely online.
Board decided to suspend the dividend for FY18.
For FY17, the Group paid a dividend of 0.6 pence per share.
Once registered, whenever Shareholder documents are available, Shareholders will be sent a link to the appropriate website, where the documents will be available to view or download.
Receiving documents online does not affect Shareholders rightsinany way.
187 Shareholder information Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED THOMAS COOK AG MYTRAVEL GROUP PLC MERGER REPORT A SCAM Thomas Cook Group plc was formed in June 2007 upon the merger of If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc.
using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also MyTravel Group plc Shareholders received one Thomas Cook Group call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already plc Ordinary Share for every one MyTravel Group plc share previously paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on held.
MyTravel Group plc share certificates are no longer valid and can 0300123 2040. be destroyed.
Replacement Thomas Cook Group plc share certificates were sent to Shareholders, who held shares in certificated form, on SHAREGIFT or around 19 June 2007.
If you have any queries relating to this, please Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which contact the Registrar.
make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity Number 1052686, which WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS ABOUT SHAREFRAUD specialises in using such holdings for charitable benefit.
Find out Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors more about ShareGift at www.
org or by calling into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or SHAREVIEW DEALING non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through the Registrar to provide a simple way of buying and selling Thomas While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way Cook Group plc shares for existing and prospective UK-based you will probably lose your money.
For telephone dealing call 03456 037 037 international 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share telephone number: 44 0 121 415 7560 between 8.00am and 4.30pm fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
London time, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays, or visit the website: www.
Shareholders will need the How to avoid share fraud Shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate s. If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research CAUTIONARY STATEMENT reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for the members 1.
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown 2.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or firm contacting you and then end the call.
By their nature, the statements 3.
Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk to see concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances 4.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, can cause results and developments to differ materially from those copying its website or giving you false contact details.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report 5.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardcall it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
188 Registered office 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD Registered Number: 6091951 SHAREHOLDER CONTACTS Shareholder Helpline: 0371 384 2154 International telephone number: 44 0 121 415 0182 Website: www.
co. uk Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm London time Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Date Event 7 February 2019 Q1 2019 Quarterly Results 7 February 2019 Annual General Meeting 16 May 2019 Interim results for six months ended 31 March 2019 24 July 2019 Q3 2019 Quarterly Results www.
com The Thomas Cook Group website provides news and details of the Groups activities, plus links to our customer sites and up-to-date information, including: This report is printed on Edixion Offset, produced at a mill certified corporate news to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental management standards.
presentations Manufactured using responsible sources and is FSC certified.
share price data This report is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
historic Annual and Sustainability Reports Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
half-year results and interim management statements Printed by Park Communications.
news alerts career opportunities W W W. THOMASCOOKGROUP.
