Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OVERVIEW CHALLENGES ECONOMIC POLITICAL & In the Eurozone, the WTTC forecasts a REGULATORY The growth of World Travel and Tourism slowdown in growth, mainly related to the outpaced global GDP growth for the seventh exceptional growth in 2017.
2018 has seen a Brexit has continued to dominate the political consecutive year, according to data from new Italian government challenge EU fiscal and regulatory discourse in the UK in 2018, the World Travel and Tourism Council.
rules, which has resulted in an underlying and while it has also featured prominently in Among other factors, the recovery of Turkey, tension in the Eurozone.
In the UK, the IMF discussions in Brussels and Europes other Tunisia and Egypt as popular mainstream forecasts an economic slowdown related capitals, so too has the implementation of holiday destinations last year contributed to to Brexit, owing to continued uncertainty.
important regulatory initiatives from Brussels a 4.6 per cent growth in the sector globally.
A commitment by OPEC members to cut that impact our industry.
For example, the production of oil, and renewed sanctions International travel in Europe grew by seven Package Travel Directive 2015 PTD came into onIranian productions is likely to see the per cent, buoyed by eight per cent growth full force, as did the General Data Protection price of crude rise, though our hedging inSouthern and Western Europe.
Package GDPR, and the Payment Services policywill mitigate short-term impact.
Following a concerted Over the next ten years, Travel and Tourism campaign by Thomas Cook and other industry OUTLOOK is expected to continue to outpace global players, 2018 also saw the UK government GDP growth, at 3.8 per cent per year versus The economic outlook for leisure travel in take quick and clear action to implement 3.7 per cent respectively.
Within the sector, the coming years remains positive, balanced a change in the law so that unscrupulous package travel is forecast to grow nine per against uncertainty around the outlook for claims management companies were no cent in volume to 2022. consumer sentiment particularly with longer able to exploit customers and put regards to Brexit in the United Kingdom.
OPPORTUNITIES However, even in economic downturns, Global consumer spending power was customer spending on overseas holidays OPPORTUNITIES expected to have further accelerated in 2018, remains resilient.
As customers look for The implementation of the PTD across our helped by a positive labour market which points of differentiation in a competitive source markets in July 2018 has meant that will support both domestic and international environment for European leisure travel, all businesses selling holidays to customers travel and tourism expenditure.
we believe we are well positioned to take are subject to the same set of rules.
advantage of the continued growth in In the 12 months to February 2018, 49 per cent While the implementation process proved leisuretravel spend.
of overseas holidaymakers in the UK and difficult across markets, the consistency 40 per cent in Germany booked a package and clarity that the regulation brings is holiday, demonstrating its continued goodfor consumers.
importance within the sector in our key markets.
The return in popularity of Turkey, Egypt and Tunisia among European holidaymakers INTERNATIONAL TOURIST ARRIVALS MILLIONS presents further opportunity to develop our holiday offering in destinations where we have a strong market position, and where weare able to generate better returns, 1,323 especially from our large and growing 1,189 portfolio of own-brand hotels.. 953.
16 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 They will now receive the same assurances and reap the loyalty and recommendation OUTLOOK already offered by major tour operators, with that comes with high customer satisfaction.
We anticipate the political outlook on Brexit other operators now subject to the same to remain fluid into 2019.
However, we expect The trend towards increased personalisation obligations that already forms a key part greater certainty with respect to potential and tailor-making of the traditional package ofour cost base and business model.
impacts on our operations, having received holidays are opportunities to appeal to commitments from both the EU and UK In March 2018, the European Commission more independently-minded travellers.
government, which gives our customers announced their proposed New Deal for Thomas Cooks growing range of innovative greater certainty in the knowledge that Consumers, to ensure that the EUs vast body holiday extras from private transfers to Brexit will not disrupt their travel plans.
of consumer protection law is fit for purpose bookable sunbeds positions us to take in the digital age and enforced consistently advantage of this trend.
Our portfolio of own- 2019 in Brussels will see the election of a across the EU.
We welcome this initiative as brand hotels provide a point of differentiation new European Parliament, and a mandate a further step to level the playing field for and the increased focus on design-led hotels change that will result in a new Commission, businesses, and we continue to engage with and higher quality food offer customers which will then identify their policy priorities European stakeholders in Brussels as the another reason to book with Thomas Cook, Work Plan for the next five years.
We are Deal progresses through the institutional setting it apart from price-driven hotel taking measures to inform the development legislative process.
aggregators and online travel agents.
of the Work Plan to ensure that travels policy priorities are addressed.
CHALLENGES CHALLENGES As a pan-European business with a major The sustained increase in leisure travel TRAVEL TRENDS UK operation, lack of clarity on Brexit has presents challenges for holiday destinations been a major source of uncertainty for throughout the world.
The past decade The growth in travel and tourism spending the European travel industry, and the has seen the worlds 20 largest travel and globally is well documented, and continues business.
However, we remain confident tourism markets increasingly occupy a to outpace global economic growth.
that there will be no disruption to travel higher share of all global travel and tourism Leisure travel is a highly-valued segment of as a result of Brexit, regardless of the GDP 72 per cent in 2017.
Trends and fashions in outcome of the negotiations, as both countries alone are forecast to have added our key source markets, particularly on social the European Commission and the UK more visitors than the rest of the world media, point to continued attractiveness of government have formally outlined their combined.
It is our role to make sure we travel among all demographics.
respective commitments to continued take a responsible approach to destination aviation connectivity even in a no deal planning and work with local authorities and OPPORTUNITIES outcome.
Challenges remain, and the communities to achieve truly sustainable In Mintels consumer survey, package travel business continues to prepare for all holidays for everyone who chooses to travel is identified as being convenient and easy potential outcomes.
This provides opportunities for our business to differentiate its offering The independent review into Airline The growth in availability and range of in an increasingly complex travel market.
Insolvency, looking into the impact on peer-to-peer accommodation booking sites In addition, those who book package holidays passengers and the taxpayer when airlines presents a challenge to the hotel-based are the most likely of all holidaymakers to fail, is expected to be presented to the UK travel industry.
Our alliance with Expedia has record high satisfaction levels.
The findings may enabled us to establish a partnership with recommend additional financial or regulatory HomeAway, Expedias holiday rental platform, Thomas Cooks strength as a dependable burdens on UK airlines.
We are engaging in order to capture a proportion of this spend brand that is trusted to offer hassle-free closely with the reviews secretariat as they among our own customers.
holidays and an added level of care means carry out their work in an effort to protect it is well positioned to continue to take OUTLOOK customers and ensure measured, balanced advantage of the benefits of package travel As customers seek ways to personalise recommendations that do not drive up prices their holidays, it is our role to innovate across the sector.
and offer new and attractive holidays and holiday extras to demonstrate the benefits NUMBER OF VISITS ABROAD BY UK RESIDENTS THOUSANDS of travelling with Thomas Cook.
Innovation in hotel brands such as Casa Cook and Cooks Club demonstrates that we can reach new audiences, while our holiday extras like 50,000 Total holidays Choose Your Room or Choose Your Favourite Sunbed add value to our offer, over and above 40,000 the well-recognised benefits of convenience and peace of mind when booking with a brand like Thomas Cook.
