Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Thomas Cook Group plc is a public limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD.
The principal activities of the Group are discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 61.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 November 2018.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
After making enquiries and taking into account the matters set out in the Risk Management section on pages 56 to 61, the Directors confirm that they consider it appropriate to use the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value through the profit or loss, share-based payments and defined benefit pension obligations.
The financial statements have been rounded to the nearest million in Great British Pounds.
Amounts in pence have been rounded to the nearest tenth of a pence.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial information presented in this document are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
Management identified several adjustments that, in their opinion should be applied to Thomas Cooks financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2017.
As a result these have been restated.
Refer to Note 33 for further details of the restatement.
3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 October 2017 have had a material impact on the Group or parent company.
New or amended standard and interpretations in issue but not yet effective or EU endorsed At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective or EU endorsed: IFRS 9 Financial instruments contains new requirements on the classification and measurement of financial assets and new requirements to address the impairment of financial assets.
The new standard also introduces a new hedge accounting model to further align hedge accounting with risk management strategy and objectives.
IFRS 9 is effective for periods commencing 1 January 2018 and therefore will be applied by the Group in the financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019.
The Group does not expect IFRS 9 to materially affect the classification and measurement of financial assets, most financial assets will continue to be recognised at amortised cost.
The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
Most of the Groups trade and other receivables relate to deposits and prepayments paid in advance to hotel and other suppliers in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
These are not financial assets and therefore outside the scope of IFRS 9.
Of trade receivables, the Groups average debtors days is seven days refer to Note 16 for further detail.
On this basis, the Group does not expect any material adjustments to existing provisions on transition.
The Group will continue to undertake hedging activity in line with its financial risk management strategy and policies.
The Groups current hedge relationships will continue to qualify as hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9 however the Group expects the following changes to hedge accounting upon the adoption of the new standard: movements in the forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts to be classified as a cost of hedging and be classified within Other Comprehensive Income: similarly, the movements in the time value of options are expected to be classified as a cost of hedging and classified within Other Comprehensive Income.
Both items are currently classified within Separately Disclosed Items within the Cost of providing tourism services as part of the Income Statement.
For the current year, a 4m credit was recognised within Separately Disclosed Items in respect to both items across both the Group Airline and Group Tour Operator segments.
124 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE CONTINUED IFRS 15 Revenues from Contracts with Customers introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
IFRS 15 is effective for periods commencing 1 January 2018 and therefore will be applied by the Group in its financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019.
The Group will apply IFRS 15 in accordance with the modified retrospective transition method.
IFRS 15 considers whether a contract contains more than one distinct good or service.
This is particularly relevant in the context of the Groups package holiday offerings.
The Group has concluded that under IFRS 15, a package holiday constitutes the delivery of one distinct performance obligation which includes flights, accommodation, transfers and other holiday-related services.
In formulating this conclusion, the Group has assessed that it provides a significant integration service within a package holiday which produces a combined output to the customer.
Individual revenue streams, which currently are predominantly recognised at the start of a customers holiday, will in future, under IFRS 15 be required to be recognised when services of the single performance obligation are transferred to the customer.
This will mean, under IFRS 15, revenue and corresponding cost of sales will be recognised over the period a customer is on holiday.
The Groups financial year end of 30 September is at the end of the peak tourist season each year.
Under IFRS 15, a certain amount of revenue and cost of sales previously recognised at year-end, under IAS 18, will be deferred at the balance sheet date and recognised in the following financial year.
The effect of recognising additional revenue and cost of sales at the beginning of a financial year and lower revenue and cost of sales at the end of the financial year is expected to materially offset each other.
The Group does not expect a material difference to underlying EBIT as a result of IFRS 15.
The adoption of IFRS 15 will mean Equity within the opening balance sheet is expected to decrease by approximately 10m in comparison to the reported amount.
In addition, under IFRS 15, the Group expects airport and passenger related taxes be to reported net within revenue.
The Group currently reports such items gross within both revenue and cost of sales.
If this change was applied for the current financial year, the Group would expect revenue and cost of sales to decrease by approximately 400m to 450m within the Group Airline segment.
This will have anet nil impact on underlying EBIT.
Aside from the changes noted above, the Group does not expect any material changes to revenue recognition under IFRS 15, as compared to current treatment under IAS 18, of airline travel services, hotel services, travel agency commission and other travel services.
IFRS 16 Leases provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases.
This new standard eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases off balance sheet or finance leases on balance sheet.
The only exemptions are for short-term leases and leases for low value assets.
IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and therefore will be applied by the Group in fiscal year 2020.
The Group has a number of operating leases for assets predominantly including aircraft, hotel and retail properties.
Details of the Groups operating lease commitments are disclosed in Note 27.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and expects its implementation to have a significant impact on the financial statements from the date of adoption.
The main changes will be as follows: net debt and non-current assets will increase on implementation of IFRS 16 as obligations to make future payments under leases currently classified as operating leases will be recognised on the balance sheet, along with the related right-of-use asset.
The Group have tentatively decided to apply the modified retrospective adoption method and expect lease obligations, which are dominated in foreign currencies such as US Dollar aircraft leases, will be recognised at the exchange rate on the date of adoption and the appropriate incremental borrowing rate at that date.
Comparable figures for the year prior to adoption are not adjusted andall adjustment effects as at adoption are therefore to be presented as adjustments to retained earnings.
there will be a reduction in expenditure within underlying EBIT and an increase in finance costs as operating lease costs arereplaced with depreciation and lease interest expense: the amounts recognised as assets and liabilities on adoption of IFRS 16 will be subject to a number of judgements, estimates andassumptions.
This includes: a. judgements when reviewing current agreements such as contracts with hoteliers to determine whether they contain leases asdefined under the new standard: b. assumptions used to calculate the discount rate to apply to lease obligations, which is likely to be based on the incremental borrowing rate for the estimated lease term: and c. estimation of the lease term, including options to extend the lease where the Group is reasonably certain to extend.
125 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3A CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURE CONTINUED The Groups Alternative Performance Measures will also be impacted.
The Group will consider the definitions of such metrics on adoption of IFRS 16 to ensure that they continue to measure the Groups strategic objectives and monitor performance towards these goals.
IFRS 16 is expected to have the largest impact on the Groups aircraft fleet due to the size and length of these leases.
The Group isalso reviewing the impact IFRS 16 may have on the accounting of maintenance costs and contractual maintenance obligations atredelivery of its leased aircraft.
For future reporting periods after adoption, foreign exchange movements on lease obligations of aircraft leases, which are predominantly denominated in US Dollars, will be remeasured at each balance sheet date, however the right-of-use asset willberecognised at the historic exchange rate.
This will create volatility in the income statement.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 subject to endorsement by the EU.
IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within the scope ofthe standard.
The Group plans to assess the impact of IFRS 17 closer to implementation date.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019 and therefore will be applied by the Group in its financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019.
IFRIC 23 clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurements requirements in IAS 12 Income Taxes when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
The Group is assessing the impact of IFRIC 23.
There are no further IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fullyconsolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Joint venture and associates Entities, other than subsidiaries, over which the Group exerts significant influence, but not control or joint control, are associates.
Entities which the Group jointly controls with one or more other party under a contractual arrangement are joint ventures.
The Groups investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
Where a transaction involves the sale or contribution of assets which constitute a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations, between a Group entity and its joint venture or associate, the Group applies the requirements of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and recognises in full in profit or loss any gain or loss arising.
Foreign currency The presentation currency of the Group is Sterling.
Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that have a functional currency other than Sterling.
The balance sheets of such entities are translated at period end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences are recorded through a separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of an entity are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities held at the year end are translated at period end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange gain or loss is recorded in the Costs of providing tourism services within the income statement.
When a foreign entity is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
126 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Groups income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets other Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are carried on the Groups balance sheet at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Other than capitalised development costs, including those that are internally generated, expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets useful life, when finite, as follows: Brands 9 years to indefinite life Customer relationships 1 to 15 years Computer software 3 to 10 years Indefinite-lived intangible assets principally comprise those trademarks for which there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to generate net cash inflows.
These are considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of our brands and the level of marketing support.
The nature of the industry the Group operates in is such that brand obsolescence is not common, if appropriately supported by advertising and marketing spend.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually at the CGU level by comparing their carrying amount to their recoverable amount.
All other intangible assets are assessed at each reporting date for indications of impairment.
If such indications exist, the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of straight-line depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Where costs are incurred aspart of the start-up or commissioning of an item of property, plant or equipment, and that item is available-for-use but incapable of operating in the manner intended by Management without such a start-up or commissioning period, then such costs are included within the cost of theitem.
Costs that are not directly attributable to bringing an asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating inthe manner intended by Management are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, upon which no depreciation is provided, is calculated on a straight-line basis and aims to write-down their cost to their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Leasehold properties Shorter of remaining lease period and 40 years Aircraft 23 years or remaining lease period if shorter Aircraft spares 5 to 15 years or remaining lease period if shorter Other fixed assets 3 to 15 years Estimated residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
127 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Aircraft overhaul and maintenance costs Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour costs, is capitalised and amortised over the average expected life between major overhauls.
All other replacement spares and other costs relating to maintenance of fleet assets including maintenance provided under pay-as-you-go contracts are charged to the income statement on consumption or as incurred respectively.
Provision is made for the future costs of major overhauls of operating leased engines, auxiliary power units and airframes by making appropriate charges to the income statement, calculated by reference to hours flown and or the expired lease period, as a consequence ofobligations placed upon the Group under the terms of certain operating leases.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents theestimated selling price less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value, on derivatives not designated as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately intheincome statement.
Derivatives are presented on the balance sheet on a gross basis.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Hedge accounting For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income or finance cost line, where they offset the changes in fair value on the hedged item.
Where the hedged item is designated in a fair value hedge relationship of a financial liability held at amortised cost, the change in fair value in respect to the hedged risk is recorded as a fair value adjustment within finance income or finance cost.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies forhedge accounting.
At that point in time the changes in fair value on the hedging instrument will continue to be recognised immediately intheincome statement, while the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for fair value changes.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges offuture cash flows is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within costs of providing tourism.
Forward points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options are not designated as part of the hedging relationship andtherefore are recorded in the income statement within costs of providing tourism.
Changes in fair value deferred through the hedge reserve are recognised in the income statement in the same period, or periods, in which thehedged highly probable forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Non-derivative financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards relating to the financial asset or when the contractual rights to the cash flows associated with the financial asset expire.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The measurement of particular financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
128 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, term deposits and investment in money market funds which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
Where the Group operates centrally pooled accounts and has the legal right along with the intention and ability to pool account balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed.
Where the intention or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet and the overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose ofthe consolidated statement of cash flows.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of allowance is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised and subsequently recorded at their fair value.
Gains or losses except for impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised directly in equity until the financial asset is derecognised.
At this point, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Any impairment losses, foreign exchange gains or losses ordividends receivable are recognised in the income statement.
Held for trading investments Short-term investments and derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship such as natural hedges of a balance sheet exposure are classified as held for trading and are recognised and subsequently measured at their fair value.
Gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Other non-current asset investments The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are measured using an appropriate valuation technique.
Where a fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is measured at cost.
Loans and receivables areinitially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using theeffective interest method.
Any impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at their fair value and subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Interest bearing borrowings are initially recognised at their fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs.
They are subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings that are designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are adjusted for changes in their fair value in respect of the hedged risk.
The adjustment will be amortised to the income statement at the time when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for changes inits fair value attributable to the hedged risk.
Provisions The Group recognises a provision when there is a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources willbe required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are recognised at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted to its present value.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes.
The pension liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of these schemes represent the difference between the present value of the Groups obligations under the schemes calculated using the projected unit credit method and the fair value of those schemes assets.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the period in which they arise within the statement of comprehensive income and expense.
The current service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the income statement as a personnel expense.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets are presented as finance costs and finance income respectively.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement in personnel expenses.
129 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Pension costs charged against profits in respect of the Groups defined contribution schemes represent the amount of the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Share capital Ordinary Shares including share premium are classified as equity.
Leases Leases under which substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group are finance leases.
All other leases areoperating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments within property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their expected useful lives.
The interest element of finance lease payments represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share options to certain employees as part of their total remuneration.
The fair values of the share options are calculated at the date of grant, using an appropriate option pricing model.
These fair values are charged to the income statement on astraight-line basis over the expected vesting period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity.
This credit is not considered tobedistributable under the Companies Act 2006.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue is measured as the aggregate amount of gross revenue receivable from inclusive tours, airline travel services, hotel services, travel agency commission and other travel services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
The Group records revenue on a net basis after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and compensation vouchers granted to customers.
Revenue relating to travel services arranged by the Groups leisure and airline travel providers, are taken to the income statement on the date of holiday and flight departure.
Revenue relating to other services provided by the Group is taken to the income statement as earned.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership is transferred to the customer, usually ondelivery of the goods.
Monies received by the balance sheet date relating to holidays commencing and flights departing after the period end are included within current liabilities as revenue received in advance.
Expenses Direct expenses relating to inclusive tours arranged by the Groups leisure travel providers are taken to the income statement on holiday departure or over the period to which they relate as appropriate.
Indirect expenses are recognised in the income statement over the period towhich goods and services are received by the Group.
Separately disclosed items The Group separately discloses to profit before tax in the income statement: non-recurring items, impairment of goodwill and amortisation ofbusiness combination intangibles: and IAS 39 fair value remeasurement.
Separately disclosed items, namely items that are material either because of their size or their nature, or which are non-recurring, are presented within their relevant income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure.
The separate reporting helps provide a full understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items which are included within the separately disclosed category include: profits losses on disposal of assets or businesses and costs of acquisitions: costs of integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes which may extend over a number of years: significant goodwill or other asset impairments: material write-down of assets reassessment of accruals, reflecting a more cautious evaluation in light of current trading and economic conditions: and other individually material items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
130 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3B SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG currently known as Thomas Cook GmbH and MyTravel Group plc currently known as MyTravel Group Limited and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
The amortisation of these intangible assets is significant and the Groups Management considers that it should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
IAS 39 fair value remeasurement includes movements in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships.
Both items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward contracts mature and therefore are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
Interest income and charges arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and interest charges arising on the unwind of discount on exceptional provisions and contingent consideration are notconsidered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
In addition, certain finance costs or income that derive from one-off events or transactions are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
The Groups Management considers that these items should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding ofthe Groups results.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, expected return on pension plan assets, changes in the fair value of held fortrading interest-related derivatives, and fair value adjustments to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge.
Finance costs comprise interest costs on borrowings and finance leases, unwind of the discount on non-current liabilities, interest cost on pension plan liabilities, changes in the fair value of held for trading interest-related derivatives and changes in fair value of derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship.
The changes in fair value on derivatives designated in a fair value hedge relationship and the fair value adjustment on hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship are separately disclosed in Note 7 under the description Finance related charges.
Tax Current tax Current tax is the amount of income taxes payable recoverable in respect of the taxable profit tax loss for a period.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based ontaxrates and laws that are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability and its tax base, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting or taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in theforeseeable future: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, tax losses or credits carried forward can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset isrealised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Allocation of tax charge or credit between income statement, other comprehensive income and equity Tax is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to an item recognised directly within other comprehensive income, in which case the associated tax is recognised directly in other comprehensive income respectively.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its Ordinary Shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary Shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
EPS measures for continuing operations have been presented in accordance with IAS 33.
The Group also presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS measure based on underlying profit before tax as defined in the Separately Disclosed Items section above.
Further details of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 11.
131 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3C CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS In applying its accounting policies, the Group has made estimates and assumptions concerning the future, which may differ from the related actual outcomes.
Those estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts ofassets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Revenue recognition A key judgement in recognising revenue is to distinguish where the Groups businesses act in the capacity of principal or agent so to determine the accounting as either gross or net respectively, in line with IAS 18 Revenue Recognition.
The Group exercises judgement to assess principal or agency by considering if it is the prime obligor in all the revenue arrangements, has pricing discretion and is exposed to inventory and credit risk, in which case the Group will be principal to the arrangement.
Impairment of goodwill Judgements have been made in respect of the amounts of future operating cash flows to be generated by certain of the Groups businesses inorder to assess whether there has been any impairment of the amounts included in the balance sheet for goodwill or intangible assets with an indefinite life in relation to those businesses.
Aircraft maintenance provisions Provisions for the cost of maintaining leased aircraft and spares are based on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of future maintenance costs and planned rollover and renewal of the aircraft fleet.
Provisions for illness claims and associated recoveries In calculating the level of provisions required, judgements have been made on the probability of success in defending legal claims and estimated outcome of such claims.
In assessing associated recoveries, judgements have been made been on the estimate of the amounts that will be recovered from hotel suppliers.
Tax Judgements have been made in respect of the probable future utilisation of tax losses, and deferred tax assets have been recognised asaresult.
The recoverability of these assets is dependent on the agreement of the losses with the relevant authorities and the estimates offuture profitability.
132 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into three operating divisions: Tour Operator, Group Airline and Corporate.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Certain residual businesses and corporate functions are not allocated to these divisions and are shown separately as Corporate.
These reportable segments are consistent with how information is presented to the Group Chief Executive Officer chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
Segmental information for these activities is presented below: Tour Operator Airline Corporate Group Year ended 30 September 2018 m m m m Revenue Segment sales 7,394 3,519 10,913 Inter-segment sales 34 1,295 1,329 Total revenue 7,360 2,224 9,584 Result Underlying operating profit loss from operations 161 129 40 250 Separately disclosed items 115 12 18 145 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8 8 Segment result 38 117 58 97 Finance income 5 Finance costs 155 Loss before tax 53 Tax 110 Loss for the year 163 Other information Capital additions 90 191 31 312 Depreciation 15 153 168 Amortisation of intangible assets 26 6 19 51 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 18 18 Impairment of Intangible assets 4 15 19 133 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Tour Operator Airline Corporate Group At 30 September 2018 m m m m Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 8,942 4,036 10,481 23,459 Inter-segment eliminations 17,092 6,367 Investments in associates and joint ventures 85 Tax and deferred tax assets 117 Total assets 6,569 Liabilities Segment liabilities 7,582 2,851 11,353 21,786 Inter-segment eliminations 17,092 4,694 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 156 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,428 Total liabilities 6,278 The total external revenue recognised in the UK was 2,623m 2017: 2,410m and 4,130m in Germany 2017: 3,863m.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Segment assets consist primarily of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, revenue received in advance and provisions.
Capital additions comprise additions to other intangible assets Note 12 and property, plant andequipment Note 13.
The total non-current assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax located in the UK was 2,023m 2017: 1,991m and 541m 2017: 578m in Germany.
134 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Tour Operator Airline Corporate Group Year ended 30 September 2017 restated m m m m Revenue Segment sales 7,121 3,185 10,306 Inter-segment sales 43 1,257 1,300 Total revenue 7,078 1,928 9,006 Result Underlying operating profit loss from operations 246 115 35 326 Separately disclosed items 74 1 18 91 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8 8 Segment result 164 116 53 227 Finance income 4 Finance costs 188 Profit before tax 43 Tax 34 Profit for the year 9 Other information Capital additions 77 120 34 231 Depreciation 24 162 186 Amortisation of intangible assets 17 4 15 36 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 8 8 Tour Operator Group Airline Corporate Group At 30 September 2017 restated m m m m Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 7,531 2,927 8,539 18,997 Inter-segment eliminations 12,615 6,382 Investments in associates and joint ventures 6 Tax and deferred tax assets 217 Total assets 6,605 Liabilities Segment liabilities 6,505 1,881 9,007 17,393 Inter-segment eliminations 12,615 4,778 Tax and deferred tax liabilities 125 Borrowings and obligations under finance leases 1,446 Total liabilities 6,349 135 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 908 834 Social security costs 111 109 Share-based payments equity-settled see Note 29 5 3 Defined benefit pension income costs see Note 30 5 6 Defined contribution pension costs see Note 30 52 51 1,071 1,003 The average number of employees of the Group during the year was: 2018 2017 Number Number Tour Operator 13,465 14,016 Airlines 7,547 7,525 Corporate 251 247 21,263 21,788 Disclosures of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive schemes, pension contributions and pension entitlements required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority are on pages 88 to 109 within the Remuneration Report and form part of these audited financial statements.
Disclosures in respect of remuneration of key management personnel are included in Note 31.
6 OPERATING EXPENSES 2017 2018 Restated m m Advertising expenses 146 155 Rents and expenses for building maintenance 120 105 Information technology and telecommunication costs 139 124 Travel expenses and ancillary personnel expenses 46 54 Legal and consultancy fees 52 48 Write off of bad debt and impairment of plant, property and equipment 54 27 Auditors remuneration 4 3 Other operating expenses 28 4 589 520 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to Company's auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and  1 1 Audit of subsidiaries 2 2 Total audit fees 3 3 Other non-audit services 1 Total fees 4 3 136 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 6 OPERATING EXPENSES CONTINUED Total non-audit services are inclusive of 0.2m 2017: 0.2m in relation to the review of the Groups interim financial statements and 0.4m on assurance services related to the Groups new bond issue in December 2017.
Fees paid to the Companys auditors and their associates for services other than the statutory audit of the Company are not disclosed in subsidiaries accounts since the consolidated accounts of the subsidiaries parent, Thomas Cook Group plc, are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 78 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS 2018 2017 m m Affecting profit from operations: New Operating Model implementation costs 57 42 Restructuring costs 24 12 Onerous leases and store closures 40 30 Costs of transformation 121 84 Investment in business development and start-up costs 24 16 Airline disruption 16 Reassessment of contingent consideration 32 Impairment of assets 33 6 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 8 8 Disposal of subsidiaries 53 1 Loss on disposal of PPE 3 10 Litigation and legal disputes 7 6 Pension plan amendment 14 Other 8 2 Total 153 99 Affecting finance income and costs: Net interest cost on bond refinancing 19 23 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation 6 7 Unwind of discount on provisions and other non-current liabilities 1 11 Total 26 41 Total separately disclosed items 179 140 New Operating Model implementation costs Implementation costs relating to the New Operating Model NUMO totalled 57m 2017: 42m and primarily relate to on-going transformation and efficiency programmes in Continental Europe and the UK.
These programmes commenced in 2015 with a focus on generating synergies within the Group by co-operating more closely across all source markets and harmonising activities, rather than duplicating processes in each individual market across a number of teams.
The transformation projects focus on aligning and integrating activities across the Group in each business area, including finance, digital, marketing, product and yield management.
This work represents an investment in our transformation, resulting in a material level of incremental cost that is not reflective of underlying business as usual activity.
Accordingly we believe that it is appropriate to separately disclose these costs.
137 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS CONTINUED The costs that we have separately disclosed in relation to these programmes include: 20m 2017: 24m of internal personnel costs in respect of employees who are dedicated to transformation projects and activities, including those in operational and back-office roles who are designing and implementing change as well as those in project management and project support roles.
The relevant projects include: integration of content, marketing and brochure production activities, omni-channel optimisation which include retail transformation and web efficiency initiatives, contact centre rationalisation, finance, IT and other cost reduction programmes, and projects dedicated to implementing new products, ancillaries and customer experience tools.
NUMO implementation costs also include: 9m 2017: 2m in relation to the establishment of a Shared Service Centre of which 7m 2017: 1m are personnel related costs, 8m 2017: 1m of redundancies, 7m of consultancy expense 2017: 2m, 5m 2017: nil of dual-running expenses for old systems that were upgraded in the year, 4m 2017: 9m of IT project expense of which 1m 2017: nil are personnel related costs, 2m 2017: 3m of contact centre transformation activity of which 1m 2017: 3m are personnel related costs and 2m 2017: 1m of other operating expenses.
NUMO was initially established as a three-year transformation project but has evolved as implementation has progressed.
Certain projects are expected to continue with costs being incurred into FY 19.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs of 24m 2017: 12m include redundancy costs in the Airline of 13m 2017: nil and Tour Operator restructuring costs totalling 11m 2017: 12m which includes 6m of redundancy costs.
Onerous leases and store closures Onerous leases and store closures total 40m 2017: 30m.
Provision is made for onerous lease contracts on stores that have closed, or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income, including sublet income, is insufficient to cover the lower of exit cost or cost of continuing to trade the store.
Where the cost of continuing to trade the store is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash flows to the end of the lease term.
Prior to recognising an onerous lease provision, the Group recognises any impairment loss that has occurred in respect of assets dedicated to that lease.
Onerous lease expenses total 21m 2017: 16m in the UK and 4m 2017: nil in France, of which 2m and 3m respectively relate to asset impairments.
Store closure expenses incurred in relation to the UK closure programme total 14m 2017: 14m.
There were also 1m 2017: nil of personnel costs incurred for internal time spent dealing with and managing these two matters.
Investment in business development and start-up costs During the year, 24m 2017: 16m has been incurred in relation to investment in the set-up of partnerships and new business developments.
This is comprised of 13m relating to set-up costs of the Expedia partnership, 8m for Thomas Cook Money and 3m for a joint venture in China.
Of the 24m, 12m 2017: 3m was incurred in respect of personnel costs: comprised of 7m, 4m and 1m for Expedia, Thomas Cook Money & China respectively, with the remaining costs being operating expenses.
Airline disruption During the year, following certain insolvencies in the Airline industry, Group Airlines secured additional airport slots and contracted 10 additional aircraft that would allow the Group to increase capacity in Summer 2018.
To fly the new aircraft it was necessary to obtain new European Air Operators Certificates AOC and register with the respective National Aviation Authorities.
There were substantial delays in the processing of these registrations across the industry as competitors also sought to take advantage of the fall out of the insolvencies.
As the Airline had initially planned for new AOCs and aircraft to be operational by 1 May, flight planning and bookings had already been committed for the start of the Summer season.
The aircraft registration delays meant that the Group had to take expensive mitigating actions, including the use of short term sub-charters, in order to fly the committed Summer programme.
The direct incremental costs associated with the disruption have been separately disclosed.
These include 5m of costs incurred with flight cancellations, 4m for EU261 compensation costs for those cancelled flights, 4m for the cost of wet leasing temporary ad-hoc capacity at above market rates and 2m of other costs directly associated with the disruption.
In addition, there were 1m of costs borne by the Tour Operator in respect of Airline insolvencies.
Reassessment of contingent consideration During FY17, the Group announced its intention to acquire full control of its UK retail store network, following notification by The Co-operative Group the Co-op of the decision to exercise its option over its stake in their UK retail joint venture.
Accordingly, in the prior year, in line with the requirements of IFRS, the Group reassessed the carrying value of a contingent obligation to acquire the Co-op shares and this reassessment resulted in a reduction of 32m to the liability previously accrued.
Impairment of assets Impairment of assets totalling 33m 2017: 6m includes 15m in relation to an internally developed IT asset held within the Corporate Segment which had been built to serve our complementary offering but will now no longer be used due to the Groups new partnership with Expedia, 7m of IT asset write downs as part of system upgrades to the tour operator business, 6m of a write down of a legacy receivable within the Tour Operator, 2m of a write off of a loan receivable from one of our associated entities due to insolvency, 2m of write offs in relation to fixtures and fittings of a closed hotel and a 1m write off of assets within Thomas Cook Money Australia prior to its disposal.
138 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 SEPARATELY DISCLOSED ITEMS CONTINUED Amortisation of business combination intangibles Material business combination intangible assets were acquired as a result of the merger between Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc.
and other business combinations made in subsequent years.
Disposal of subsidiaries During 2018, the Group announced the launch of its hotel fund, Thomas Cook Hotel Investments TCHI, a joint venture with Swiss-based hotel property development company, LMEY Investments LMEY.
The establishment of the hotel fund included the sale of two of the Groups Greek hotels, the long-standing family resort Sunwing Kallithea in Rhodes and the well-established Sunwing Makrigialos in Crete, to the new joint venture.
At the same time, Aldiana GmbH and LMEY also contributed hotel entities to TCHI.
The Group holds a 42% interest in Aldiana GmbH and equity accounts for its share of Aldianas profit for the year.
Alongside the share sales, upon the establishment of the joint venture, Hotel Management Agreements HMAs and Direct Licensing Agreements DLAs were signed between the Group and TCHI and Aldiana GmbH and TCHI, such that the seed hotels will be managed either by the Group under one of Thomas Cooks own brands, or by Aldiana under the Aldiana brand.
The HMAs and DLAs signed as part of completion of the disposal transaction have been fair valued and considered as part of the consideration received.
This transaction led to a 47m credit in respect of the hotel transactions, of which 9m relates to the Groups share of Aldianas gain on disposal.
For each hotel disposed the net gain or loss includes the gain from the net consideration received including recognition of HMA DLA intangibles less the net book value of assets disposed and the currency translation reserve recycled to the income statement, net of costs incurred.
During the year the Group also disposed of its investments in Tour Vital Touristik GmbH, LLC Intourist and Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium.
The net gain on these disposals totals 6m.
For further details of these disposals and transactions, refer to Note 32.
Loss on disposal of PPE During the year, certain assets were disposed resulting in a 3m loss on disposal 2017: 10m.
This includes a 4m loss arising for the write off of an aircraft engine and 2m of disposals of fixed assets across the Group, partially offset by a 2m gain from the sale of the Pegase brand and 1m gain from the sale of an aircraft.
Litigation and legal disputes 7m 2017: 6m of various one-off litigation costs were incurred in the year, which includes 4m of costs incurred in connection with defending fraudulent illness claims, 2m of legal costs relating to a historic acquisition related claim and a 1m commercial settlement in respect of an IT licensing matter.
Pension plan amendment The pension plan amendment credit in the year relates to a one-time 14m gain following an amendment to the defined benefit Condor pension plan.
For further details, refer to Note 30.
Other Other separately disclosed items total 8m.
These include: 6m of expenses for refinancing and the Groups legal entity reorganisation, principally tied to the refinancing that took place in November and December 2017: 3m for a one time IT failure at a Greek Airport that affected the Tour Operator segment in the Summer of 2018, and: 3m of costs of which 1m are personnel related costs incurred in the year to meet the requirements of General Data Protection Regulations GDPR effective May 2018.
Given these costs are in relation to the one-time set up costs for ensuring compliance with GDPR and not the on-going monitoring costs which will recur, we believe that it is appropriate to separately disclose these costs.
These were partially offset by an 4m gain 2017: 6m from the movement in forward points related to foreign exchange forward contracts and the time value of options in cash flow hedge relationships.
The hedging related items are subject to market fluctuations and unwind when the options or forward contracts mature and are not therefore considered to be part of the Groups underlying performance.
Finance related charges The Group has incurred 19m 2017: 23m of interest charges as a result of entering into a new Revolving Credit Facility in November 2017 and issuing a new Euro bond in December 2017 which refinanced elements of the Groups debt at lower interest rates.
These charges include the bond redemption premium paid and the write-off of capitalised fees in relation to extinguished debt.
In addition, net interest charges arising on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes were 6m 2017: 7m.
The Group also has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately disclosed circumstances, primarily deferred acquisition consideration.
A notional interest charge of 1m 2017: 11m on the discounted value of such provisions is recognised within separately disclosed finance related charges.
139 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 2018 2017 m m Underlying finance income Other interest and similar income 5 4 5 4 Underlying finance costs Bank and bond interest 71 78 Fee amortisation 8 7 Letters of credit 17 20 Other interest payable 14 24 110 129 Underlying aircraft related finance costs Interest payable on aircraft related borrowings 2 2 Finance costs in respect of finance leases 17 16 19 18 Underlying finance cost 129 147 Net underlying Interest 124 143 Separately disclosed finance costs Bond refinancing costs 19 23 Net interest cost on defined benefit obligation Note 30 6 7 Unwind of discount on provisions and other non-current liabilities 1 11 26 41 Total net interest 150 184 Bank and bond interest includes a fair value gain of 1m 2017: nil gain on hedging instruments.
140 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 TAX 2018 2017 m m Analysis of tax charge Current tax UK corporation tax charge for the year adjustments in respect of prior periods 4 4 Overseas corporation tax charge for the year 45 45 adjustments in respect of prior periods 1 1 46 46 Total current tax 46 42 Deferred tax tax charge credit 64 8 Total deferred tax 64 8 Total tax charge 110 34 The tax on the Groups profit loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK standard corporation tax rate applicable to profits of the Company as follows: 2017 2018 Restated m m Tax reconciliation Loss Profit before tax 53 43 Expected tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.5% 10 8 Income not liable for tax 24 23 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 42 16 Losses and other temporary differences for which tax relief is not available 27 41 Utilisation of tax losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised 4 3 Recognition of losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised 58 Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised 71 44 Difference in rates of tax suffered on overseas earnings 15 7 Impact of changes in tax rates 6 5 Other 2 Income tax charge in respect of prior periods 1 1 Tax charge 110 34 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to actuarial losses on pension schemes and the fair value of derivative financial instruments of 67m has been debited directly to equity 2017: debit of 28m.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 19% 2017: 19.5% of the estimated assessable profit loss for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in therespective jurisdictions.
The derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised largely represents the release of UK deferred tax assets.
As a result of the performance of the UK business it is considered appropriate to release these assets.
Surplus losses not recognised in deferred tax of 2,502m 2017: 2,222m are available predominantly in France, Germany and the UK for offset against future profits.
10 DIVIDENDS No dividends were declared during the year ended 30 September 2018 2017: 0.6p per share.
141 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculations for earnings per share, based on the weighted average number of shares, are shown in the table below.
The weighted average number of shares shown excludes two million shares held by the employee share ownership trusts 2017: three million.
2017 2018 Restated Basic and diluted earnings per share m m Net loss profit attributable to the owners of the parent 163 10 2018 2017 millions millions Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 1,533 1,532 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 1,533 1,536 2018 2017 pence pence Basic and diluted loss earnings per share 10.6 0.7 Awards of shares under the Thomas Cook Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan are anti-dilutive.
In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share the calculation of the basic and diluted earning per share has not included items that are anti-dilutive.
12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software and concessions Brands and Internally customer Order Management Other Goodwill Purchased generated relationships backlog contracts purchased Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2016 2,909 218 312 419 41 3 3,902 Additions 24 51 2 77 Disposals 7 82 1 90 Exchange differences 45 4 5 5 59 At 30 September 2017 2,954 239 286 424 40 5 3,948 Additions 20 58 13 12 103 Disposals 4 49 59 5 117 Exchange differences 38 11 49 At 30 September 2018 2,912 210 285 408 40 13 17 3,885 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 October 2016 314 113 206 151 41 825 Charge for the year 6 35 8 49 Disposals 6 76 1 83 Exchange differences 13 3 4 1 21 At 30 September 2017 327 116 169 160 40 812 Charge for the year 6 44 8 1 59 Disposals 1 48 54 1 1 105 Impairments 2 16 1 19 Exchange differences 1 5 4 At 30 September 2018 327 76 175 162 40 1 781 Carrying amount At 30 September 2018 2,585 134 110 246 13 16 3,104 At 30 September 2017 2,627 123 117 264 5 3,136 142 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Included in the 19m impairment charge for the year is 15m for an internally developed IT asset: refer to Note 7.
Brand names with indefinite lives acquired through business combination intangibles are allocated by cash-generating unit.
The carrying value of brand names and goodwill is analysed by business segment as follows: Goodwill Goodwill Brand names Brand names 2017 2018 2017 2018 m m m m UK Tour Operator 1,038 1,038 67 67 Northern Europe Tour Operator 476 505 123 130 Continental Europe Operator 181 183 56 53 Group Airline 890 901 2,585 2,627 246 250 Goodwill Impairment Testing In accordance with IFRS, the Group tests the carrying value of goodwill and brand names with indefinite lives for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances change.
Impairment testing is performed by comparing the carrying value of each cash-generating unit CGU to the recoverable amount, determined on the basis of the CGUs value in use.
The value in use is based on the net present value of future cash flow projections discounted at pre-tax rates appropriate for each CGU.
The Groups CGUs for the purposes of impairment testing, consist of UK Tour Operator, Northern Europe Tour Operator, Continental Europe Tour Operator and Group Airline.
The future cash flow projections used to determine the value in use are based on the most recent three-year Business Plan and an additional year based on management forecasts collectively the cash flow budget for each of the CGUs.
The key assumptions used to determine the business cash flow budgets relate to capacity and the pricing of accommodation and fuel inputs.
Capacity is based on Managements view of market demand and the constraints to managing capacity such as aircraft lease commitments.
The accommodation pricing is primarily driven by the underlying bed rate and the foreign exchange hedges in place.
The former is based on the businesses ongoing dialogue with hotel suppliers and local cost inflation.
The fuel pricing assumption is primarily driven by the fuel hedges in place and the forward fuel curve at the time that the budget is set.
The key assumptions used to determine the independent business cash flow budget relate to passenger volumes and commission rates, and are based on the individual businesses view of the market conditions.
Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the period of the cash flow budget are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate of 2%.
A pre-tax discount rate of between 9.8% 10.1% reflecting the specific risks of each CGU is used to calculate the value in use for each of the CGUs.
The value in use calculations performed as at 30 September 2018 indicate that the Northern Europe Tour Operator, Continental Europe Tour Operator and Group Airline CGUs are not sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions.
However, a reasonably possible change in the UK Tour Operator CGU future cash flows would result in the CGUs carrying amount exceeding the value in use.
As at 30 September 2018 the UK Tour Operator CGUs value in use exceeds its carrying value by 257m based on a pre-tax discount rate of 9.8%.
A key assumption made in the UK CGUs cash flow budget is the success of the UK Tour Operator turnaround plan.
The cash flow budget assumes an underlying EBIT constant annual growth rate CAGR of 28.3% from Year 1 to Year 4.
This assumption results in the underlying EBIT of the UK Tour Operator CGU in the fourth year returning to a similar level of profitability as it achieved in FY16.
A decrease of the underlying EBIT CAGR from 28.3% to 14.6% would cause the UK Tour Operator CGUs value in use to equal its carrying value.
Similarly, if the pre-tax discount rate were to increase from 9.8% to 12.1% then the UK Tour Operator CGUs value in use would be equal to its carrying value.
A decrease in projected cash flow of 30% in the fourth year of the value in use calculation will cause the UK Tour Operator CGUs value in use to equal its carrying value.
Sensitivity analysis for the remaining segments have not been disclosed as Management believe that any reasonable change in assumptions would not cause the carrying value of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
143 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Other property, plant and equipment Aircraft and Freehold land Short Other Other aircraft spares and buildings leaseholds fixed assets Total m m m m m Cost At 30 September 2016 1,415 171 82 190 443 Additions 108 4 29 13 46 Transferred to held for sale 146 1 43 190 Disposals 89 24 53 77 Exchange differences 33 3 3 2 8 At 30 September 2017 1,467 32 89 109 230 Additions 162 8 40 48 Disposals 185 1 9 40 50 Exchange differences 5 1 1 At 30 September 2018 1,449 31 88 110 229 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 30 September 2016 788 50 40 132 222 Charge for the year 162 3 8 9 20 Provision for impairment 4 4 8 Transferred to held for sale 57 1 31 89 Disposals 83 1 22 52 75 Exchange differences 19 2 3 5 At 30 September 2017 886 1 29 61 91 Charge for the year 150 2 7 9 18 Provision for impairment 13 5 18 Disposals 159 2 13 33 48 Exchange differences 4 At 30 September 2018 881 1 36 42 79 Carrying amount At 30 September 2018 568 30 52 68 150 At 30 September 2017 581 31 60 48 139 Freehold land with a cost of 20m 2017: 20m has not been depreciated.
The net book value of aircraft and aircraft spares includes 275m 2017: 244m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The net book value of other property, plant and equipment includes 8m 2017: 20m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The depreciation of owned assets during the year was 100m 2017: 79m.
Depreciation for property, plant and equipment held under finance lease was 68m 2017: 107m.
2018 2017 Capital commitments m m Capital expenditure contracted but not provided for in the accounts 53 37 144 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES 2018 2017 m m Cost At 1 October 2017 33 33 Additions 70 Groups share of joint ventures and associates profit loss for the year 10 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 30 September 2018 112 33 Amounts written off or provided At 1 October 2017 27 25 Exchange differences 2 At 30 September 2018 27 27 Carrying amount 85 6 Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited In May 2018, the Group acquired a 50% interest in Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited, a hotel fund focused on acquiring hotel properties across Thomas Cooks key destination markets, for 60m.
Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited has subsidiaries in Greece and Spain.
The Groups interest in Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited is accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements.
Summarised financial information in respect of Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited, based on IFRS, is as follows: 2018 m Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of 2m 36 Non-current assets 185 Current liabilities, including borrowings of 12m 89 Non-current liabilities, including borrowings of 11m 25 Equity 107 Group's share of equity 54 Goodwill 8 Group's carrying amount of the joint venture 62 2018 m Revenue 27 Depreciation 3 Finance costs 1 Profit before tax 7 Tax 2 Profit for the year 5 Group's share of Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limiteds profit for the year 3 Other Joint Ventures and Associates Other Investments in joint ventures and associates at 30 September 2018 included a 40% interest in Activos Turisticos S. A, an incoming agency and hotel company based in Palma fide Mallorca, Spain and 49% joint venture share in Kuyi International Travel Agency Shanghai Co. Ltd. which forms part of Thomas Cook China, the Groups joint venture with Fosun.
In February 2018, the Group acquired a 42% interest in Aldiana, aGerman tour operator, for 10m.
145 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED Summarised financial information in respect of other joint ventures and associates is as follows: 2018 2017 Joint ventures and Joint ventures and associates associates m m Total assets 104 35 Total liabilities 72 21 Net assets 32 14 Group's share of net assets 23 5 Revenue 72 25 Profit Loss for the year 15 3 Group's share of profit loss for the year 7 1 Included within the Groups share of joint venture and associates profit for the year is 9m profit being the Groups share of a gain on disposal recognised by Aldiana.
This has been reported within Separately Disclosed Items, refer to Note 7 for further details.
The accounting period end dates of the joint ventures and associates consolidated in the Group financial statements differ from those of the Group.
For the purposes of applying the equity method of accounting the most recent financial statements of these joint ventures and associates and the management accounts are used to draw up the financial position and performance of each joint venture and associate.
15 INVENTORIES 2018 2017 m m Goods held for resale 10 10 Airline spares and other operating inventories 34 32 44 42 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense was 211m 2017: 196m 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2017 2018 Restated m m Non-current assets Trade receivables 1 1 Other receivables 32 18 Deposits and prepayments 49 45 Loans 1 1 83 65 Current assets Trade receivables 229 220 Other receivables 170 89 Deposits and prepayments 378 391 Loans 2 Other taxes 34 23 811 725 146 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED The average credit period taken on invoicing of leisure travel services is seven days 2017: eight days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
The credit risk in respect of direct receivables from customers is limited as payment is required in full before the services are provided.
In thecase of travel services sold by third-party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third parties, but this risk isalso limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
The Groups current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in advance.
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during those periods.
Deposits and prepayments also include 17m 2017: 7m of deposits on aircraft lease arrangements.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Allowances for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed in the business units where the debts arise and are based on local Management experience.
Factors that are considered include the age of the debt, previous experience with the counterparty and local trading conditions.
Trade receivables arise from individual customers as well as businesses in the travel sector.
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
Movement in allowances for doubtful receivables 2017 2018 Restated m m At beginning of year 39 33 Additional provisions 12 12 Exchange differences 1 1 Receivables written off 1 4 Unused amounts released 5 3 At end of year 44 39 At the year end, trade and other receivables of 172m 2017: 115m were past due but not impaired.
The analysis of the age of these financial assets is set out below: Ageing analysis of overdue trade and other receivables 2017 2018 Restated m m Less than one month overdue 66 40 Between one and three months overdue 19 25 Between three and 12 months overdue 51 34 More than 12 months overdue 36 16 172 115 Trade and other receivables are not subject to restrictions on title and no collateral is held as security.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair values.
147 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 702 833 Cash in transit 60 81 Term deposits with a maturity of less than three months 277 493 1,039 1,407 Cash and cash equivalents largely comprise bank balances denominated in Sterling, Euro and other currencies for the purpose of settling current liabilities as well as balances arising from agency collection on behalf of the Groups travel agencies.
Included within the above balance are the following amounts considered to be restricted: 34m 2017: 24m held within escrow accounts in respect of local regulatory requirements and: 4m 2017: 4m of cash held by Voyager Android Insurance Services, a Group captive insurance company.
Cash in transit largely comprises amounts receivable on credit cards where the transaction has been authorised but the funds have yet to clear the bank.
These balances are considered highly liquid with minimal risk of default, typically funds are received in less than 3 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of these assets approximate to their fair value.
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at the end of the year as shown in the Group cash flow statement can be reconciled to the related items in the Group balance sheet position as shown below: 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,039 1,407 Overdrafts Note 19 1 8 1,038 1,399 18 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2018 Restated m m Current liabilities Trade payables 1,679 1,691 Social security and other taxes 44 53 Accruals and deferred income 455 442 Other payables 136 163 2,314 2,349 Non-current liabilities Accruals and deferred income 8 4 Other payables 16 21 24 25 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 72 days 2017: 82 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
Trade payables include 108m 2017: 59m that represent balances with corporate card providers, these arrangements are considered to be an extension of normal working capital management providing an extension of terms of 60 to 90 days on average.
These balances accrue interest at the following rates 0% to 3%.
148 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 BORROWINGS 2018 2017 m m Short-term borrowings Unsecured bank loans and other borrowings 176 217 Unsecured bank overdrafts 1 8 177 225 Current portion of long-term borrowings 7 20 184 245 Long-term borrowings Bank loans and bonds: repayable within one year 7 20 repayable between one and five years 1,014 667 repayable after five years 14 380 1,035 1,067 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown under current liabilities 7 20 Amount due for settlement after one year 1,028 1,047 Borrowings by class 2018 2017 Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m Group committed credit facility including transaction costs 16 2 Aircraft-related bank loans including transaction costs 4 11 17 15 Commercial paper 177 218 Other bank borrowings 3 19 10 33 Issued bonds including transaction costs 1,014 1,001 184 1,028 245 1,047 The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups borrowings with a carrying value of 1,212m is 1,228m 2017: carrying value 1,292m: fairvalue 1,476m.
1,030m 2017: 1,183m of the fair value which relates to issued bonds has been calculated using quoted market prices.
For all other borrowings, the Directors consider that the fair value of 198m 2017: 291m is approximate to the carrying amount.
In 2018, theGroup has 15m as security to aircraft 2017: 32m and 26m as a security to property 2017: 37m.
Borrowing facilities In December 2017, the Group issued a new 400m bond.
The new bond bearing 3.875% and maturing on July 2023, enabled the Group to redeem in full the 400m bond due to expire in June 2021 which bore a coupon of 6.75%.
As at 30 September 2018, the Group had undrawn committed debt facilities of 630m 2017: 472m and undrawn committed debt facilities plus cash available to repay the revolving credit facility of 1,598m 2017: 1,824m.
Whilst these facilities have certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent full utilisation of the facilities if required.
The Group has complied with its covenants throughout the year.
From 1 October 2018, the Group increased the commercial paper programme capacity from 250m to 500m.
149 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19 BORROWINGS CONTINUED Covenant measures The Groups revolving facilities agreement contains covenant measures that are tested quarterly.
The covenant measures consist of a leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant.
The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating lease rentals compared to net debt.
The fixed charge covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease charges compared to net interest and operating lease charges.
The leverage and fixed charge covenant hurdles vary depending on the period that they relate to, reflecting the seasonality of the Groups business.
20 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 49 49 34 39 Between one and five years 146 105 111 91 After five years 84 26 71 24 279 180 216 154 Less: future finance charges 63 26 Present value of lease obligations 216 154 216 154 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 34 39 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 182 115 The currency analysis of amounts payable under finance leases is: 2018 2017 m m Euro 12 13 US Dollar 204 141 216 154 Finance leases principally relate to aircraft and aircraft spares.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Directors consider that the fair value of the Groups finance lease obligations with a carrying value of 216m was 186m at 30 September 2018 2017: carrying value 154m: fair value 176m.
The fair values quoted were determined on the basis of the interest rates for the corresponding terms to repayment as at the year end.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
150 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Carrying values of financial assets and liabilities The carrying values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 are as set out below: 2017 2018 Restated Derivative Derivative instruments instruments in Financial Fair value designated Financial Fair value in designated through profit hedging Loans & liabilities at through profit hedging Loans & liabilities at relationships receivables amortised cost or loss relationships receivables amortised cost or loss m m m m m m m m Trade and other receivables 524 394 Cash and cash equivalents 1,039 1,407 Trade and other payables 2,311 2,202 Borrowings 1,212 1,292 Obligations under financeleases 216 154 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 480 432 Derivative financial instruments 4 203 9 47 4 203 1,563 4,219 9 47 1,801 4,080 Derivative financial instruments The fair values of derivative financial instruments as at 30 September 2018 were: Interest rate Currency Fuel swaps contracts contracts Total m m m m At 1 October 2016 16 96 27 85 Movement in fair value during the year 17 181 57 141 At 1 October 2017 1 85 30 56 Movement in fair value during the year 1 144 118 263 At 30 September 2018 59 148 207 2018 2017 m m Non-current assets 14 6 Current assets 219 56 Current liabilities 20 109 Non-current liabilities 6 9 207 56 151 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fair value hierarchy The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments are disclosed in hierarchy levels depending on the valuation method applied.
The different methods are defined as follows: Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Level 2: d erived using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Level 3: v alued using techniques incorporating information other than observable market data as at least one input to the valuation cannot be based on observable market data.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities at 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 are set out below: 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Currency contracts 85 85 30 30 Fuel contracts 148 148 32 32 Financial liabilities Currency contracts 26 26 115 115 Fuel contracts 2 2 Contingent consideration 1 1 At 30 September 2018 207 207 56 56 The fair values of financial instruments have been calculated using discounted cash flow analysis.
Currency hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 24 months in advance of the forecasted requirement.
As at 30 September 2018, the Group had in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of September 2020 2017: May 2019.
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the risk of adverse changes in the price of fuel.
The Group enters into fixed price contracts swaps and net purchased options in the management of its fuel price.
All fuel hedges are designated ascash flow hedges.
Fuel price hedges are entered into up to a maximum of 24 months in advance of forecasted consumption of fuel.
Trades with maturities longer than 24 months need additional approval in line with treasury policy.
As at 30 September 2018, the Group had in place fuel price hedgingderivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of March 2020 2017: March 2019.
152 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED In addition, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate exposures.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps tohedge against interest rate movements in connection with the financing of aircraft and other assets and to hedge against interest rate exposures on fixed rate debt.
The Group also enters into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate and the currency exposure on foreign currency external borrowings.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency contracts in designated fair value hedge relationships at 30 September 2018 was a liability of 1m 2017: 1m.
As at 30 September 2018, the maximum maturity of interest rate derivatives was June 2022 2017: June 2022.
The fair values of the Groups derivative financial instruments have been calculated using underlying market prices available on30 September 2018.
During the year, a gain of 103m 2017: 60m gain was transferred from the hedge reserve to the income statement following recognition of the hedged transactions.
In addition, a loss of 1m was recognised in the income statement in respect of the forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 2017: 6m gain and a gain of 5m in respect of the movement in the time value of options in cash flow hedging relationships 2017: nil.
The amount included in each line item in the income statement is shown below: 2018 2017 m m Cost of providing tourism services release from hedge reserve 103 60 time value on options 5 forward points on foreign exchange cash flow hedging contracts 1 6 Finance income costs : fair value movements on derivatives in designated fair value hedge 1 17 During the year a loss of 12m 2017: 10m loss was taken directly to the income statement in respect of held for trading derivatives that areused to hedge Group balance sheet exposure.
The closing hedging reserve, excluding the impact of tax, was a gain of 194m 2017: 44m loss.
The periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur and when they are expected to impact the income statement are a gain of 185m 2017: 35m loss within one year and againof 9m 2017: 9m loss between one and five years.
153 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The following financial assets and liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognised financial Gross amounts of liabilities assets Net amounts set off in the presented in the Financial recognised financial assets liabilities balancesheet balance sheet instruments Cash collateral Net amount m m m received As at 30 September 2018 m m Derivatives financial assets 233 233 25 208 Derivatives financial liabilities 26 26 25 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,039 1,039 1,039 Bank overdrafts 1 1 1 Total 1,245 1,245 1,245 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Gross amounts of recognised financial Gross amounts of liabilities assets Net amounts recognised financial set off in the presented in the Financial assets liabilities balancesheet balance sheet instruments Cash collateral Net amount As at 30 September 2017 m m m m received m Derivatives financial assets 62 62 53 9 Derivatives financial liabilities 118 118 53 65 Cash and cash equivalents 1,412 5 1,407 1,407 Bank overdrafts 13 5 8 8 Total 1,343 1,343 1,343 For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities will be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting agreement or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Reclassification 1 October between current Foreign exchange 30 September 2017 Cash flows and non-current movement Other 2018 m m m m m m Current interest bearing loans and borrowings 245 69 6 2 184 Current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 39 50 66 9 2 34 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,047 8 6 7 12 1,028 Non-current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 115 66 1 182 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,446 27 19 10 1,428 154 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Prior year: Reclassification 1 October between current Foreign exchange 30 September 2016 Cash flows and non-current movement Other 2017 m m m m m m Current interest bearing loans and borrowings 891 651 19 10 4 245 Current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 42 27 28 6 2 39 Non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 847 194 19 24 1 1,047 Non-current obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 141 28 2 115 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,921 484 10 1 1,446 22 FINANCIAL RISK The Group is subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, fuel prices, liquidity and counterparty credit within theframework of its business operations.
Interest rate risk The Group is subject to risks arising from interest rate movements in connection with the issue of Eurobonds, bank debt, aircraft financing andcash investments.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage these risks and are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has activities in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
These risks arise inconnection with the procurement of services in destinations outside the source market.
For example, US Dollar exposure arises on the procurement of fuel and operating supplies for aircraft, as well as investments in aircraft.
The Group requires segments to identify and appropriately hedge all exposures in line with approved treasury policies designed to reflect thecommercial risk of each underlying business.
Each segmental hedging policy includes the hedging build up and permitted instruments.
The maximum hedge tenor is 24 months and each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start of the season.
The Group uses currency forwards, currency swaps and currency options to manage transactional currency risks and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group does not hedge translation exposures arising from profits generated outside the UK.
Fuel price risk Exposure to fuel price risk arises due to flying costs incurred by the Groups aircraft.
The maximum hedge tenor is 24 months and in general each segment should achieve at least an 80% hedge ratio prior to the start ofthe season.
The Group uses commodity derivative contracts, including fixed price contracts swaps and net purchased options to manage fuel price risk and these are usually designated as cash flow hedges.
The market risks that the Group is subject to have been identified as interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and fuel price risk.
The impact of reasonably possible changes in these risk variables on the Group, based on the period end holdings of financial instruments have been calculated and are set out in the tables below.
In each case it has been assumed that all other variables remain constant.
As at 30 September 2018, the sensitivity of these risks to the defined scenario changes are set out below: 155 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Interest rate risk 2018 2017 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 1% 2017: 1% increase in interest rates 6 9 0.25% 2017: 0.25% decrease in interest rates 1 2 Foreign exchange rate risk 2018 2017 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 5% 2017: 5% strengthening of Euro 1 15 1 8 5% 2017: 5% weakening of Euro 1 14 1 7 5% 2017: 5% strengthening of US Dollar 3 86 2 75 5% 2017: 5% weakening of US Dollar 3 78 1 67 Fuel price risk 2018 2017 Impact Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact before tax on equity before tax on equity m m m m 10% 2017: 10% increase in fuel price 7 78 63 10% 2017: 10% decrease in fuel price 8 71 63 Given recent historical movements in fuel prices management believe a 10% shift is a reasonable possibility.
Liquidity risk The liquidity position of the Group is significantly influenced by the booking and payment pattern of customers.
As a result, liquidity is at its lowest in the winter months and at its highest in the summer months.
The Group manages the seasonal nature of its liquidity by making use ofits bank facility, the terms of which, including the covenant measures, are detailed in the borrowings note refer to Note 19.
The Group also uses liquidity swaps to manage short-term currency positions.
These liquidity swaps are presented as held-for-trading financial instruments.
The undrawn committed debt facility plus the cash available ranged between 1,187m and 1,596m during the current financial year 2017: between 993m and 1,824m.
Surplus short-term liquidity is invested in accordance with approved treasury policy.
156 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 22 FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Financial liabilities are analysed below based on the time between the period end and their contractual maturity.
The amounts shown areestimates of the undiscounted future cash flows and will differ from both carrying value and fair value.
Amount due in less than between between in more than 3 months 3 and 12 months 1 and 5 years 5 years Total At 30 September 2018 m m m m m Trade and other payables 1,732 535 42 2 2,311 Borrowings 159 24 1,248 6 1,437 Obligations under financeleases 12 37 146 84 279 Derivative financial instruments: payable 804 2,081 708 3,593 receivable 832 2,122 714 3,668 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 35 131 284 30 480 1,910 686 1,714 122 4,432 Amount due in less than between between in more than 3 months 3 and 12 months 1 and 5 years 5 years Total At 30 September 2017 m m m m m Trade and other payables 1,967 180 51 4 2,202 Borrowings 224 17 1,310 28 1,579 Obligations under financeleases 13 36 105 26 180 Derivative financial instruments: payable 1,054 2,054 546 3,654 receivable 1,053 1,989 542 3,584 Provisions arising from contractual obligations 27 102 224 79 432 2,232 400 1,694 137 4,463 For all gross settled derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency forward contracts and swaps, the pay and receive leg has been disclosed in the table above.
For net settled derivative financial instruments, such as fuel swaps and options, the fair value as at the year end ofthose instruments in a liability position has been disclosed in the table above.
Trade and other payables include non-financial liabilities of26m 2017: 165m which have not been analysed above.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to deposits, outstanding derivatives and trade and other receivables.
The maximum exposure in respect of each of these items at the balance sheet date is the carrying value.
The Group assesses its counterparty credit risk exposure in relation to the investment of surplus cash, fuel contracts, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts and undrawn credit facilities.
The Group primarily uses published credit ratings to assess counterparty strength and to define the credit limit for each counterparty in accordance with approved treasury policies.
The Groups approach to credit risk in respect of trade and other receivables is explained in Note 16.
157 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 INSURANCE Management of insurance risk Incidental to its main business, the Group, through its subsidiary White Horse Insurance Ireland DAC, issues contracts that transfer significant insurance risk and that are classified as insurance contracts.
As a general guideline, the Group defines as significant insurance risk thepossibility of having to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event adversely affects the policyholder.
Business written is travel insurance for both Group and non-Group customers.
The principal nature of travel insurance risks is one of short-term, low-value and high volume.
Underwriting performance is monitored onanongoing basis and pricing reviewed annually for each individual contract.
Exposure is capped by specific limits within the insurance policyand by using reinsurance contracts for any claims in excess of these retention limits.
Insurance risk is spread across the EEA countries including the UK, Ireland and Continental Europe.
When estimating the cost of claims outstanding at the year end, the principal assumption underlying the estimates is the Groups past development pattern.
This includes assumptions in respect of historic claims costs, average claims handling expenses and market developments.
The Group has an Actuarial Function to review its liabilities to ensure that the carrying values are adequate.
Any changes tothese variables are not expected to have a material effect on the Group financial statements.
The Group operates a reinsurance policy approved by the White Horse Insurance Ireland DAC Board of Directors which ensures that reinsurers have a financial stability rating of A S&P.
The Group has assessed these credit ratings as being satisfactory in diminishing the Groups exposureto the credit risk of its insurance receivables.
24 DEFERRED TAX The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current year: Aircraft Retirement Fair value Other finance benefit of financial temporary Tax leases obligations instruments differences losses Total m m m m m m At 1 October 2017 51 45 3 53 211 155 Charge credit to income 8 1 3 22 74 64 Credit to equity 26 39 2 67 Disposals 3 3 Exchange differences 1 1 2 2 At 30 September 2018 60 18 39 27 137 29 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes: 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 117 216 Deferred tax liabilities 88 61 29 155 At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused tax losses of 3,028m 2017: 3,182m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax assets have only been recognised to the extent that the business has forecast future taxable profits against which the assets may be recovered.
As a result of the performance of the UK business it is considered appropriate to release UK deferred tax assets.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses of 2,502m 2017: 2,222m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
2,454m of these losses have no expiry date, with the remaining 48m expiring within 10 years.
158 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 24 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Other temporary differences on which deferred tax has been provided primarily relate to the difference in book to tax value on qualifying tax assets, provisions for which tax relief was not originally available, and fair value accounting on assets acquired as part of the merger.
In addition, the Group had unused other temporary differences amounting to 414m 2017: 432m for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Deferred tax liabilities were offset against the corresponding deferred tax assets as appropriate within territories.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future periods A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 19% to 17% was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This change in rate will be effective from 1 April 2020.
Deferred tax on temporary differences and tax losses as at the balance sheet date is calculated based on the substantively enacted rates at which the temporary differences and tax losses are expected to reverse.
The Groups future tax charge could be affected by numerous factors, including but not limited to: Amendments to the UK tax rules relating to the utilisation of brought forward losses and the deductibility of interest were substantively enacted on 31 October 2017.
These new rules apply retrospectively from 1 April 2017.
We do not expect this legislation to have a significant impact on our tax charge in the foreseeable future : and Any tax reforms in jurisdictions where we have a taxable presence, including any reforms which may arise from the UKs proposed exit from the EU, any reforms adopted from the OECDs BEPS actions such as those in relation to the deductibility of interest, anti-avoidance or transfer pricing or any future changes to accounting standards.
25 PROVISIONS Aircraft Reorganisation maintenance Off-market Insurance and and restructuring Other provisions leases litigation plans provisions Total m m m m m m At 1 October 2016 330 5 71 3 31 440 Additional provisions in the year 73 109 12 31 225 Unused amounts released in the year 37 2 3 2 4 48 Unwinding of discount 11 1 12 Utilisation of provisions 8 3 102 12 28 153 Exchange differences 3 2 1 At 30 September 2017 366 75 1 33 475 Additional provisions in the year 92 83 16 45 236 Unused amounts released in the year 62 4 1 1 68 Unwinding of discount 1 1 Utilisation of provisions 26 78 12 40 156 Exchange differences 7 1 8 At 30 September 2018 378 76 4 38 496 2018 2017 m m Included in current liabilities 214 168 Included in non-current liabilities 282 307 496 475 159 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 PROVISIONS CONTINUED The aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance on leased aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines in respect of leases which include contractual return conditions.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of the aircraft with major overhauls typically occurring between two and 10 years.
The aircraft maintenance provisions are reassessed at least annually in the normal course of business with a corresponding adjustment made to either non-current assets aircraft and aircraft spares or aircraft costs, and this results in a release to the aircraft maintenance provision.
Insurance and litigation represents costs related to legal disputes, customer compensation claims including EU261 and estimated costs arising through insurance contracts in the Groups subsidiary, White Horse Insurance Ireland DAC.
Reorganisation and restructuring plans predominantly represent committed restructuring costs in the Tour Operator segment.
Other provisions includes items such as onerous contracts, dilapidations and emissions trading liabilities.
Of the 45m 2017: 31m charge recognised in the year, 20m 2017: 13m has been classified as Separately Disclosed Items, for further details refer to Note 7.
Onerous lease provisions will be utilised over the lease terms.
26 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL Allotted, called-up Allotted, called-up and fully paid and partly paid Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares Ordinary Shares Deferred Shares of 0.01 each of 0.09 each Deferred Shares of 0.01 each of 0.09 each m m of 1 each, 25p paid At 1 October 2016 1,535,851,316 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 Exercise of Warrants Issue of shares At 30 September 2017 1,535,851,316 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 Exercise of Warrants Issue of shares At 30 September 2018 1,535,851,316 934,981,938 11 58 50,000 The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to the profits of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Sterling-denominated Deferred Share and the holders of the Euro-denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each Euro-denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary Shares and Sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders of both classes of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
Contingent rights to the allotment of shares As at 30 September 2018, options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were outstanding with respect to the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook plc 2011 Restricted Share Plan and the Thomas Cook 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan.
For further details refer to Note 29.
On exercise, the awards of shares under the plan will be satisfied by either purchases in the market of existing shares or, subject to institutional guidelines, issuing new shares.
Own shares held in trust Shares of the Company are held under trust by EES Trustees International Limited in respect of the Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan, the Thomas Cook plc 2011 Restricted Share Plan and the Thomas Cook 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited hold shares in connection with the Thomas Cook Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme.
In accordance with IFRS, these are treated as Treasury Shares and are included in other reserves in the balance sheet.
The number of shares held at 30 September 2018 by EES Trustees International Limited and Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited was 1,906,643 2017: 3,211,284 and 313,751 2017: 343,310 respectively.
The cumulative cost of acquisition of these shares was 3m 2017: 5m and the market value at 30 September 2018 was 1m 2017: 4m.
Shares held by the trust have been excluded from the weighted average number of shares usedin the calculation of earnings per share.
160 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 26 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns forShareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt net of related hedging instruments, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent as shown in the Group balance sheet.
At the balance sheet date the Group had total capital of 807m 2017: 320m.
27 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS The Group as lessee At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 Property Aircraft and Property Aircraft and and other aircraft spares Total and other aircraft spares Total m m m m m m Within one year 66 186 252 68 159 227 Later than one and less than five years 170 655 825 187 558 745 After five years 133 412 545 120 377 497 369 1,253 1,622 375 1,094 1,469 Operating lease rental payable charged to the income statement for hire of aircraft and aircraft spares was 331m 2017: 219m which includes 162m 2017: 75m for seasonal wet leases.
Operating lease rental payable charged to the Income Statement for property and other was 90m 2017: 92m which includes 20m of onerous lease provisions recognised in the year 2017: 13m.
Operating lease payments principally relate to rentals payable for the Groups retail shop and hotel properties and for aircraft and spares used by the Groups airlines.
Shop leases are typically negotiated for an average term of four years.
Leases for new aircraft are typically negotiated for an average term of 12 years, leases for second hand aircraft and extensions are typically considerably shorter.
28 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 2018 2017 m m Contingent liabilities 133 154 Contingent liabilities primarily comprise guarantees, letters of credit and other contingent liabilities, all of which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The amounts disclosed above represent the Groups contractual exposure.
The Group complies with all the standards relevant to consumer protection and formal requirements in respect of package tour contracts and has all the necessary licences for the various sales markets.
The customers right to reimbursement of the return travel costs and amounts paid in case of insolvency or bankruptcy on the part of the tour operator or travel agency is guaranteed in all Thomas Cook sales markets in line with local legislation and within the various guarantee systems applied.
In the United Kingdom, there is a fund mechanism whereby travel companies are required to collect and remit a small charge for each protected customer upon booking.
Customer rights in relation to Thomas Cook Group in Germany, Belgium and Austria are guaranteed via an insolvency insurance system, in Ireland, Scandinavia and France viaguarantees provided by banks, insurance companies, accredited associations and in the Netherlands via a guaranteed fund.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to commercial disputes and litigation including customer claims, employee disputes, taxes and other kinds of lawsuits.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on best estimates and Managements judgement but there can be no guarantee that these provisions will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
These are not expected to have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
161 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company operates equity-settled share-based payment schemes, as outlined below.
The total charge recognised during the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 5m 2017: 3m charge.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2007 Performance Share Plan PSP Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
The awards will vest if performance targets are met during the three years following the date of grant.
The Thomas Cook Group plc 2011 Restricted Share Plan RSP Senior management of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted options to acquire, or contingent share awards of, the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Executive Directors are excluded from receiving awards under the RSP.
The Company will determine at the date of award whether the award will be subject to a performance target and the date of vesting.
The Thomas Cook 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Executive Directors and a small number of senior Executives of the Company and its subsidiaries are granted contingent share awards of the Ordinary Shares of the Company, relating to a proportion of their annual bonus.
Awards are subject to forfeiture if a clawback event occurs during the period that the award is held.
The movements in options and awards during the year in relation to the PSP and the other awards were: 2018 PSP Other Outstanding at beginning of year 32,975,118 3,950,829 Granted 12,771,664 2,805,022 Exercised 1,327,589 Forfeited 709,018 Lapsed 11,234,864 Outstanding at end of year 34,511,918 4,719,244 Exercise price nil nil Average remaining contractual life years 1.3 1.5 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2018 was 1.27.
2017 PSP Other Outstanding at beginning of year 20,295,442 1,730,112 Granted 17,167,250 2,971,574 Exercised 90,684 617,874 Forfeited 1,948,444 121,335 Lapsed 2,448,446 11,648 Outstanding at end of year 32,975,118 3,950,829 Exercise price nil nil Average remaining contractual life years 1.5 1.6 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised during the year ended 30 September 2017 was 0.89.
162 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The fair value of options and awards subject to basic EPS performance targets was determined by the use of Black-Scholes models and the fair value of options subject to TSR performance targets was determined by the use of Monte Carlo simulations.
For options and awards granted during the year the key inputs to the models were: 2018 2017 PSP DBP PSP DBP Weighted average share price at measurement date 1.19 1.29 0.86 0.89 Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil Expected volatility 41% 41% 66% 66% Weighted average option life years 3 1.38 3 1.46 Weighted average risk-free rate 0.80% 0.80% 0.79% 0.79% Expected dividend yield nil nil nil nil Weighted average fair value at date of grant 0.81 1.29 0.69 0.89 Expected volatility has been based on the historic volatility of the Companys shares and the shares of other companies in the same or related sectors.
30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Background The Group supports a number of post-employment benefit plans, including defined contribution pension plans and defined benefit pension plans.
These benefit plans have been developed in accordance with normal local practice in the countries in which Thomas Cook Group operates.
The largest plans are in the UK and Germany.
At 30 September 2018, the Group had total defined benefit obligations of 1,605m 2017: 1,753m.
The majority of the Groups defined benefit obligations are in in the UK 70% of total obligations and Germany 23%.
The remaining defined benefit obligations are mainly in the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium and France.
During the year, a number of amendments were made to the defined benefit plans resulting in a net past service credit of 14m which relates to changes to the Condor plans in Germany.
The UK plans were closed to accrual in 2011.
The plans that are open to accrual are collectively-agreed plans in Germany and Sweden.
The current service cost for all plans for the year to 30 September 2018 was 13m 2017: 17m.
The Group paid 39m to defined benefit plans in the year to 30 September 2018.
The majority of the cash contributions were deficit funding payments to the UK plans 28m and pension payments from unfunded German pension plans 8m.
Thomas Cook Group expects to pay 40m to defined benefit plans in the year to 30 September 2019.
At 30 September 2018, the Group had total pension plan assets of 1,446m 2017: 1,425m in defined benefit plans.
The UK plans were all funded with a net IAS 19 surplus of 278m, whereas the European plans were mainly unfunded with a net IAS 19 deficit of 433m.
The total IAS 19 deficit on the balance sheet was 165m 2017: 325m.
The IAS 19 deficit has reduced by 160m during the year primarily due to a net gain recognised in Other Comprehensive Income, the net past service credit in Germany, and payment of deficit recovery contributions in the UK.
UK plans The Group supports four UK defined benefit plans of which the largest is the Thomas Cook Pension Plan 95% of total UK obligations.
All four plans are funded, with the assets held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The trustees are required by law to act in the interests of all plan members and are responsible in particular for the investment policy and the day-to-day administration of the benefits.
The Company and trustees are currently considering a consolidation of these plans.
Employees are entitled to retirement benefits linked to their salary and length of service.
The UK plans are closed to future accrual.
UK employees participate in the Thomas Cook UK Defined Contribution Scheme for future service.
The Thomas Cook Pension Plans investments have been substantially fide-risked since 2014 with 72% of the total assets invested in bonds and liability driven investments in order to provide protection against interest rate and inflation changes.
The remaining assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of equities, alternative investments including diversified growth funds, property and cash.
A review of the investment strategy is in progress and will be completed in 2019.
163 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED In line with UK legislation, the cash funding of the UK defined benefit plans is determined by the trustee of each plan.
Cash funding is determined following actuarial valuations which take place every three years and use assumptions that are more prudent than those used to determine the IAS 19 defined benefit obligations.
The current contributions to the Thomas Cook Pension Plan are based on a valuation carried out in 2017.
Annual deficit payments of 28m will continue to be paid until the next valuation.
The next scheduled valuation of the Thomas Cook Pension Plan will be carried out in 2020.
Funding on the technical provisions basis improved from 85% at the 2014 valuation to 93% at the 2017 valuation, largely due to the fide-risking of assets that had taken place.
German plans In line with general market practice, the German pension plans are mainly unfunded and the Company pays benefit payments as they fall due.
The majority 85% of the unfunded liabilities are in respect of the Condor Group company Condor Flugdienst GmbH, Condor Berlin GmbH and CF GmbH.
Benefits for Condor Group employees are established under industry trade union and works council agreements.
The benefits provided to Condor pilots have historically been in line with those provided to pilots in the Lufthansa group.
The Condor Group unfunded defined benefit plans have been closed to new entrants with the exception of pilots since 2004.
The defined benefit plans provide retirement benefits on a contributions-based basis: with additional benefits payable in the event of early retirement.
Pilots joining after 2013, and cabin crew members joining after 2005, are in funded pension arrangements.
These are accounted for as insured arrangements and are not included as part of the liabilities for retirement benefit obligations on the balance sheet.
On 20 April 2018 it was agreed that the pilots plan would be amended and, with effect from 1 October 2018, Condor pilots will be provided with a funded defined contribution plan.
Assets in this plan will be held in a German Contractual Trust Arrangement.
Under local legislation, Condor will provide a minimum investment return guarantee: and the plan will be accounted for as a defined benefit plan under IAS 19.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a plan for which the Groups only legal or constructive obligation is to pay a fixed contribution into a separate, private or state run, entity.
For these plans contributions are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis.
The largest plan is the Thomas Cook UK DC Pension Scheme, which is open to all UK employees.
The total charge for the year in respect of this and other defined contribution plans, including insured benefits relating to workers compensation arrangements outside the UK, amounted to 52m 2017: 51m.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets: 2018 m 2017 m UK Germany Rest of Group Total Total Present value of funded obligations 1,122 4 46 1,172 1,315 Fair value of plan assets 1,406 4 36 1,446 1,425 Surplus deficit of funded plans 284 10 274 110 Present value of unfunded obligations 397 36 433 435 Unrecognised asset due to asset ceiling 3 3 Additional liability required under IFRIC 14 3 3 Total deficit of defined benefit pension plans 278 397 46 165 325 In the event that Thomas Cook Group is not expected to benefit economically from any plan with a surplus, the balance sheet assets for that plan are restricted to allow for any surplus that is not expected to be recovered including, in accordance with IFRIC14 any additional contributions that the Thomas Cook Group has contractually committed to pay to these plans.
The unrecognised assets and additional liabilities for 2018 in the above table, totalling 6m, are in respect of one of the smaller UK defined benefit plans.
164 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of defined benefit plans The amounts recorded in the income statement in relation to the defined benefit pension plans are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current service cost 13 17 Past service credit 14 1 Settlement gain 4 10 Total service credit cost 5 6 Total administration expenses recognised in profit and loss 2 2 Interest income on plan assets 38 35 Interest expense on post-retirement plan obligations 44 42 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability 6 7 Total expense recognised in profit and loss 3 15 In April 2018, the Company announced that the pilots plan would be amended with effect from 1 October 2018.
As a result of this plan amendment there is a gain of 14m recognised in 2018 as a result of changes to pension indexation and discretionary pension increases.
The settlement gain of 4m 2017: 10m is primarily in relation to transfers of liabilities from Condor to Lufthansa as a result of pilots moving between the two companies.
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of defined benefit plans The amounts recorded in the statement of comprehensive income in relation to the defined benefit pension plans are as follows: 2018 2017 m m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 10 64 Gain from change in demographic assumptions on obligations 21 34 Gain from change in financial assumptions on obligations 74 127 Experience gains losses on obligations 23 17 Effect of the asset ceiling 3 Change in balance sheet adjustment required under IFRIC 14 3 Total recognised in other comprehensive income 122 114 165 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Changes in defined benefit obligations and assets The tables below show the reconciliations for the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the plan assets: 2018 2017 m m Benefit obligation at the beginning of year 1,753 1,927 Net current service cost 13 17 Interest cost on benefit obligation 44 42 Actual benefits paid from plan 56 53 Actual benefits paid directly by employer 9 8 Plan amendments 14 Settlements 4 10 Transfers & changes in scope of plans included in consolidation 3 4 Gain due to changes in financial assumptions 74 128 Gain due to changes in demographic assumptions 21 35 Experience gain 23 17 Exchange rate gain loss 1 14 Benefit obligation at the end of period 1,605 1,753 On 26 October 2018 the High Court ruled that Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation in the UK is required.
This ruling impacts any UK employer sponsored pension plan that was contracted out of the UK state earnings related pension between 1990 and 1997, including Thomas Cooks UK DB plans.
There is a period in which an appeal can be launched but, if there is no appeal, the position will effectively be confirmed in the coming months.
In line with most other UK companies, Thomas Cook has not included any allowance for GMP equalisation in its accounts to-date.
Thomas Cook expects to recognise the changes required to plan benefits, as a result of GMP equalisation, as a plan amendment in the next financial year.
2018 2017 m m Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of year 1,425 1,470 Interest income on plan assets 38 35 Actual employer contributions 39 29 Actual benefits paid 66 53 Actual expenses paid 2 2 Transfers & changes in scope of plans included in consolidation 8 Asset gain loss 10 63 Exchange rate gain 2 1 Actual fair value of plan assets at the end of period 1,446 1,425 166 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Fair value of pension plan assets Pension plan assets are invested in different asset classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return.
The majority of the pension plan assets are in the Thomas Cook Pension Plan in the UK.
The investment strategies for the funded plans are set by the trustees of each plan in consultation with Thomas Cook Group.
The following table provides details on the composition of the fair value of plan assets: 2018 2017 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total % % % % % % Liability driven investments 35 35 35 35 Bonds 37 37 37 37 Equities 7 7 9 9 Alternative investments other investment funds 7 4 11 5 6 11 Real estate property 4 4 4 4 Insurance contracts 3 3 3 3 Cash 3 3 1 1 Total 89 11 100 87 13 100 The scheme assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by the Group.
The scheme currently has part of its assets invested in a liability driven investment portfolio.
These assets, in combination with the other protection assets in the portfolio, provide interest rate and inflation rate protection.
Methods and assumptions The defined benefit obligations of the Groups main plans are calculated regularly by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The actuaries use a number of assumptions, which are reviewed each year and agreed by Thomas Cook Group.
Due to the long-term nature of the plans, the assumptions may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The key significant assumptions were as follows: 2018 2017 UK Germany UK Germany Discount rate 3.0% 2.1% 2.7% 2.2% Inflation RPI 3.1% 1.8% 3.1% 1.8% CPI 2.1% 2.1% Rate of increases in salaries n a 2.8% n a 2.8% Life expectancy for a current pensioner at age 65: Male 22.4 19.4 23.3 19.2 Female 24.7 23.5 25.2 23.2 Life expectancy at age 65 for a current employee aged 40: Male 24.2 22.7 25.5 22.4 Female 26.7 26.6 27.5 26.3 Discount rates are derived by reference to the market yields on AA rated corporate bonds, and are selected to reflect the currency and term of the expected benefit payments.
Life expectancy assumptions are based on standard industry mortality tables, including allowance for expected future improvements.
In the UK Thomas Cook Pension Plan, the mortality assumptions are based on 100% 95% males females of S2PA base tables with mortality improvements in line with: the 2013 CMI projection model with a long-term trend rate of 1.5% to 2017: and the 2017 CMI projection model with a long-term trend rate of 1.25% from 2017.
In the prior year, the mortality assumption was based on 90% of the S2PA base tables males and females with mortality improvements in line with: the 2013 CMI projection model with a long-term trend rate of 1.5% from 2007 to 2017.
The change in mortality assumptions, along with reduced longterm longevity improvements in the 2018 assumptions has reduced the life expectancy for current and future pensioners since the prior year.
In Germany, the mortality assumptions are based on the Heubeck-Richttafeln 2005 G standard tables.
167 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Sensitivities The defined benefit plans expose Thomas Cook Group to actuarial risks such as longevity, interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
There are a number of other risks of running the Groups defined benefit including operational risks such as paying out the wrong benefits and legislative risks such as the government increasing the burden on pension funds through new legislation.
Thomas Cook Group and the trustees of the funded pension plans have put in place governance structures to monitor and mitigate these risks including regular reviews of funding, investment strategy and plan designs.
The calculations of the defined benefit obligation are sensitive to the assumptions set out above.
The effect of changes in the principal assumptions on the defined benefit obligation is: Impact on total defined benefit obligation m Change in Increase in Decrease in assumption assumption assumption Discount rate - 0.25% 81 84 Inflation rate - 0.25% 46 45 Mortality - 1 year 40 41 The above sensitivity analyses with the exception of the inflation sensitivity are based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and some changes of the assumptions may be correlated.
The inflation sensitivity above includes changes to any inflation linked pension increases and salary increases.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 21 years and approximately 27% of the obligation is in respect of pensioner members.
31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Associates and joint ventures 2018 2017 m m Sale of goods and services 10 6 Purchases of goods and services 5 4 Finance income 1 Amounts owed by related parties 19 2 Amounts owed to related parties 2 1 All transactions are considered to have been made at market prices.
Outstanding amounts will normally be settled by cash payment.
Remuneration of key management personnel Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 88 to109.
2018 2017 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 4 The short-term employee benefits include employer social security payments which are excluded from the Directors Remuneration Report.
168 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 32 NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE AND DISPOSALS 2018 2017 m m Non-current asset classified as held for sale 55 101 The non-current assets classified as held for sale consist mainly of properties in Germany and Spain currently reported within the Group Tour Operator segment, these properties are due to be sold within one year and have been recorded at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Disposals Sunwing Kallithea and Sunwing Makrigialos On 7 March 2018, the Group announced the launch of its hotel fund, Thomas Cook Hotel Investments Limited TCHI, a joint venture with Swiss-based hotel property development company, LMEY Investments AG.
The disposal was completed on 16 May 2018.
As consideration, the Group received 60m in share capital in TCHI and have entered into management contracts with TCHI.
The Groups investment in TCHI is assessed as an investment in a joint venture, refer to Note 14 for further details.
The Group disposed of Sunwing Hotels Hellas S. A. the owner of Sunwing Kallithea and its subsidiary Helios Palace S. A. the owner of Sunwing Makriagialos.
Both entities were wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group prior to disposal.
Financial information related to the disposal is set out below: m Consideration received: Investment in TCHI 60 Management contracts 13 Disposal costs 1 72 Net book value of assets disposed: Non-current assets held for sale 45 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 2 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Trade and other payables 5 Deferred tax liabilities 2 42 Currency translation reserve recycled to Income Statement 8 Gain on disposal 38 The Group made a number of other disposals which resulted in a net gain of 6m.
These were as follows: Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium On 31 May 2017, the Group announced the sale of its Belgian airline, Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium N. V. to SHS Aviation B. V. This followed the announcement on 1 May 2017 that the Group had extended its partnership agreement between Thomas Cook Belgium and Brussels Airlines.
The disposal was completed on 31 October 2017 and followed the commencement of the partnership with Brussels Airlines in late October 2017.
The Group disposed of nil net assets and received nil consideration.
The Group has recognised a 9m gain on disposal from recycling 12m of the currency translation reserve to the Income Statement, net of 3m of costs incurred to sell.
Tour Vital On 31 August 2018, the Group disposed of Tour Vital Touristik GmbH, a German based tour operator specialising in holidays with an accompanying doctor.
The Group received net cash proceeds of 1m and disposed of 6m of net assets which included 5m of goodwill and intangible assets net of tax recognised upon the Groups acquisition of Tour Vital in 2011.
The Group has recognised a loss on disposal of 5m.
169 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE AND DISPOSALS CONTINUED LLC Intourist On 28 September 2018, the Group disposed of its interests in LLC Intourist, a subsidiary of its Russian business.
The Group has recognised a 2m gain on disposal from recycling 2m of the currency translation reserve to the Income Statement.
33 PRIOR YEAR RESTATEMENTS During the year management identified a total of 27m of aged debit balances within the UK balance sheet that are considered unsupportable as at 30 September 2017.
These balances represent amounts that were recorded as income in error over the period of FY14 to FY17.
In addition 3m of income should have been recognised during FY16 and FY17.
These errors arose through the miscalculation of income earned, the incorrect recognition of adjustments intended to eliminate intercompany transactions and the miscalculation of amounts that could be cleared from the revenue in advance and accounts payable ledgers, in each case as a result of ineffective systems interfaces and controls.
The company is confident that these system issues have now been rectified.
In aggregate these errors are material to the net assets of the prior year and have therefore been reflected as prior year restatements.
The impact of this restatement affects the opening balance at 1 October 2017 and prior periods and resulted in a 7m decrease in trade and other receivables and 6m increase in trade and other payables and 8m decrease in revenue in advance, recorded within opening reserves asat 1 October 2017.
A further 3m has been adjusted against underlying profit in 2017 with 3m reducing trade and other receivables.
The errors have been corrected by restating each of the affected financial statement line items for the prior periods, as follows: Impact on equity increase decrease in equity 30 September 2017 m Trade and other receivables 10 Trade and other payables 6 Revenue in advance 8 Net assets 24 Opening reserves 21 Retained earnings 3 Total equity 24 Statutory profit Impact on statement of profit or loss increase decrease in profit for 30 September 2017 m Revenue 1 Cost of Sales 2 Net impact on profit for the year 3 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3 Non-controlling interests 3 Impact on basic and diluted earnings per share EPS increase decrease in EPS Basic and diluted EPS 0.1 pence 34 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS From the 1 October 2018, the Group increased the commercial paper programme capacity from 250m to 500m.
