Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of Preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the fair valuation of assets and liabilities of subsidiary companies acquired, and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL including derivative instruments not in hedged relationships.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements reasonable knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 1.4.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the date of approval of its consolidated financial statements.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Further information on the Groups borrowings is given in Note24.
Functional and Presentation Currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates the functional currency.
The functional currency of each Group company has been assessed against the underlying transactions and economic conditions in which it operates.
These financial statements are presented in Euro, which is the Groups presentation currency.
All financial information presented in Euro has been rounded to the nearest 100,000 except where stated otherwise.
Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures Changes in accounting policies and disclosures are set out below: 1.1.
New and Revised IFRS Affecting Amounts Reported in the Current Year and or Prior Years IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 issued in November 2009 was revised in July 2014 and finalised the reform of financial instruments accounting.
It supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement in its entirety.
Key requirements of IFRS 9 are: All recognised financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 are to be subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value.
The impairment model reflects expected credit losses as opposed to incurred credit losses.
The types of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments are broader, and the effectiveness test has been revised and is now subject to the principle of an economic relationship.
Financial Assets The hold-to-collect business model is applied for the majority of financial assets in the financial statements.
The cash flows of these financial assets meet the criteria of IFRS 9 the SPPI test: solely payments of principal interest and continue to be recognised at amortised cost.
Financial Liabilities The adoption of IFRS 9 in relation to debt modifications requires that entities recognise a gain or loss at the date of modification of the financial liability.
Due to the floating rate interest element in the Groups term loans, the debt is presented at fair value at each reporting period which minimises any such gains or losses in the event of a debt modification.
As a result, the transition to IFRS 9 did not result in a material change to processes or reported carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Impairment IFRS 9 is applied to financial assets measured at amortised cost arising from contract assets that result from IFRS 15.
Under IFRS 9, allowance for doubtful debts is measured on the expected credit losses arising as a result from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument.
For these items, the transition to IFRS 9 did not result in material differences in previous carrying amounts and carrying amounts as at the beginning of the first reporting period to be recognised in equity, due to the short maturity of receivable balances and the high credit rating of the majority of the Groups OEM customers.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Hedge Accounting The Groups cost of hedging, the time value of options and forward element of forward contracts is initially recorded in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit and loss over time.
On adoption of IFRS 9, costs recognised in both other comprehensive income and profit and loss were not materially different to costs as recognised under IAS 39 FinancialInstruments.
Financial Instruments Policy Due to the limited impact of the new standard, the 2017 accounting policy in section 1.10 is still largely relevant for the current year.
Changes are limited to the following: Loans and receivables are now referred to as assets at amortised cost The allowance for doubtful debts described in section 1.12 is now calculated using the expected credit loss model IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a single model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers, and supersedes IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
Having performed a comprehensive review of customer contracts, the Group concluded that the adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 would not have a material impact on the amount or timing of revenue recognition.
Whilst the fundamental revenue recognition processes remain unchanged, the Group has issued a new accounting policy to conform with the requirements of IFRS 15: Revenue Recognition Policy The below policy is relevant to amounts recorded in the current year under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Amounts reported in the prior year in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue were accounted for under the 2017 policy specified in section 1.17.
Revenue in the course of ordinary activities is measured and recognised using the five-step approach outlined in IFRS 15: 1.
Identify the contract with the customer 2.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract 3.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 5.
Recognise revenue when the entity satisfies the performance obligations Step 1: To be recognised as a contract, there must be appropriate approval from both parties and clear identification of each partys rights under the agreement.
The payment terms should be evident, with collection of consideration probable.
The Groups customer arrangements take a variety of forms, with typical contractual frameworks comprising: master terms and conditions, program award letters, purchase orders and release orders.
For piece part revenue, volume requirements and mutually enforceable terms are established on the customer issuance of a release order and therefore this is the relevant accounting unit of contract.
Tooling, prototype and development TPD requirements are typically specified in a purchase order or equivalent.
Step 2: The performance obligation within a piece part release order is to manufacture and deliver the specified volume of requested parts.
The performance obligation of a TPD order is to construct or undertake the relevant tooling and development activities.
Where the different obligations are separable, in terms of both capability and within the contractual documentation, they are accounted for as distinct performance obligations.
Further details regarding the nature of goods and services sold is included in Note 2.
Step 3: The fair value of consideration receivable is the transaction price specified in the relevant release order or purchase order, net of returns, discounts, sales taxes and volume rebates.
Where uncertainty exists as to the amount of consideration that will ultimately be recognised in the future, the transaction price is constrained until such uncertainty is resolved.
Amounts invoiced in excess of the transaction price will be reflected as pricing accruals or revenue deferrals.
Step 4: The transaction price established in step 3 is allocated to the distinct performance obligations identified in step 2.
Step 5: Revenue is recognised on satisfaction of the specified performance obligations, consistent with the passing of control of the goods and services.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 82 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information For piece part revenue, control is deemed to have passed at the point in time delivery of the parts specified in the applicable release order is made.
Where consignment arrangements apply, revenue is only recognised when control of the underlying inventory has passed to the customer.
For TPD activities, control is deemed to have passed once production part approval process PPAP or start of production SOP has been achieved, depending on the specific terms of the agreement.
Costs incurred up until this point are recognised as work-inprogress on the Balance Sheet and reviewed regularly for impairment should their future recovery become doubtful.
Upfront deposits and progress billings are recorded in deferred revenue, until point of recognition.
Contract Costs Incremental costs incurred in obtaining a contract are capitalised and amortised over the applicable programme life, with regular review for impairment.
Other pre-contract costs and costs of fulfilment are expensed as incurred unless future economic benefit is evident, or if applicable, within the scope of other standards.
Impairment Contract assets arise where a performance obligation has been satisfied but amounts due have not been fully recognised within trade receivables.
Contract assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IFRS 9.
New and Revised IFRS in Issue but not yet Effective A number of new standards, amendments to standards, and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, or are not yet effective because they have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
These have not been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has not applied the following new and revised standards that have been issued but are not yet effective or are not yet endorsed by the EU: Annual improvements Clarifications for IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 12 1 20152017 cycle: Income Taxes and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
IFRS 3, IFRS 11, IAS 12 and IAS 23 IFRS 16 Leases Provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and 1 liabilities for most leases.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Addresses the determination of tax-related items when there is uncertainty over income tax 1 Tax Treatments treatments under IAS 12.
Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment This amendment confirms that when a financial liability measured at amortised cost is Features with Negative modified without fide-recognition, a gain or loss should be recognised immediately in profit 1 Compensation or loss.
Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Various updates to assumptions to determine current service cost and net interest for the Benefits on plan amendment, remainder of the period after a plant amendment, curtailment or settlement: and recognition curtailment or settlement of profit or loss as part of past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, or any reduction 1 in a surplus.
Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Clarifies that IFRS 9 applies to long-term interests forming part of the investment in an 1 Interests in Associates and Joint associate or joint venture where the equity method is not applied.
Ventures IFRS 17 Insurance contracts IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4 for all entities that issue contracts and investment contracts with 2 discretionary participation features.
1 Effective for the Groups 2019 financial statements.
2 Effective for the Groups 2022 financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and eliminates the dual accounting model for lessees.
The standard removes the accounting distinction between finance and operating leases and requires that right-of-use assets and liabilities be created for all leases on the balance sheet, unless the lease term is 12 months or less, or the underlying asset has a low value.
Under the new standard, operating lease charges will be replaced with interest payable and depreciation charges.
On an individual lease basis, this will result in higher expenses in the Income Statement earlier in the lease term, and correspondingly lower expenses later in the lease term.
The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued The Group has set up a project team which has reviewed all of the Groups leasing arrangements over the last year in light of the new lease accounting rules in IFRS 16.
The actual impacts of adopting the standard on 1 January 2019 may change because: The Group has not finalised the testing and assessment of its new IFRS16 Software The new accounting policies are subject to change until the Group presents its first financial statements that include the date of initial application.
The Group expects to increase net debt by the recognition of lease liabilities of between 134 million and 174 million on 1 January 2019, and a net nil deferred tax adjustment.
The Groups activities as a lessor are not significant and hence the Group does not expect any significant impact on the consolidated financial statements from that activity.
However, some additional disclosures may be required from next year.
The Group will apply the standard from its mandatory adoption date of 1 January 2019 in the 2019 consolidated financial statements.
The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2018.
All right-of-use assets will be measured at the amount of the lease liability on adoption adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease expenses.
The Group intends to apply the practical expedient to grandfather the definition of a lease on transition.
This means that it will apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 and identified as leases, in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4.
There are no other standards or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred to the former owners of the acquiree for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred, and any equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from intercompany transactions that are recognised in assets are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation is presented in Note 4 of the Parent Companys financial statements.
The term Group means the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and undertakings.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, under which the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the Income Statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in Other Comprehensive Income is recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, both with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that an investment in an associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment, which is recognised in the Income Statement, as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 84 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.3.
Foreign Currency Transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are converted to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are converted using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
All transactional foreign currency differences are included in the Income Statement.
Foreign Operations Foreign operations are those subsidiaries whose functional currency is not Euro.
For the purposes of consolidation, income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to Euro at average exchange rates for the year, and assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to Euro at exchange rates at the reporting date.
Foreign currency translation differences are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The average and year-end exchange rates for the Groups principal currencies were: 2018 2018 2017 2017 Key euro exchange rates Average Year-end Average Year-end US dollar 1.181 1.147 1.129 1.201 Chinese renminbi 7.805 7.890 7.631 7.815 South Korean won 1,299 1,278 1,276 1,282 1.4.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires the use of accounting estimates and for management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
Assumptions and accounting estimates are subject to regular review, governed by Groupwide policies and controls.
Any revisions required to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the revisions are made including all future periods affected.
The areas involving critical accounting judgements or estimates which are significant to the financial statements are disclosed below.
These are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period.
Critical Accounting Estimates Costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit plans are calculated on the basis of a range of assumptions, including discount rates, inflation rates, salary growth and mortality assumptions.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis illustrating how changes in the principal assumptions would impact the total defined benefit obligation are included in Retirement Benefit Obligations.
Fair value estimates of derivatives are based on relevant market information and information about the financial instruments, which are subjective in nature.
The fair value of these financial instruments is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the reporting date, which is a proxy for market price.
The Group is required to estimate income tax due in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences, which arise because of differing accounting and tax treatments.
These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets or liabilities, which are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse.
The Group is subject to many different tax jurisdictions and tax rules because of its geographic spread and is subject to tax audits, which are often complex and can require several years to conclude.
Where appropriate, estimates of interest and penalties are included in these provisions for uncertain tax positions.
As amounts set aside in any year could differ from actual tax liabilities, adjustments may be required in subsequent years, which may have a material impact on the Groups Income Statement.
Costs of project engineering are capitalised as development intangible assets when there is an indication from a customer or market that costs will be recoverable from future business.
Expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and overhead costs that are directly attributable to preparing the asset for its intended use.
Estimates are used in apportioning costs that are directly attributable to each development project.
Estimates are reviewed at least annually to ensure that the recoverability of costs is reasonably certain.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
The impairment review requires estimation of the discount rate, long-term growth rate, EBITDA multiple and components of forecast cash flows.
Estimation techniques are employed in the calculation of the amount required to settle product warranty claims, restructuring and other provisions, including determining how likely it is that expenditure will be incurred.
This can be complex, especially when there is a wide range of possible outcomes.
Reference is made to contractual considerations, historical data and other relevant factors such as specific events with an underlying product.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued 1.4.
Critical Accounting Judgements The Group is required to estimate income tax due in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of both the current tax liability, and deferred tax assets or liabilities, which arise because of differing accounting and tax treatments for temporary differences.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is based on forecast future taxable income and therefore involves the exercise of managements judgement regarding the future financial performance of particular legal entities or tax groups in which the deferred tax assets are recognised.
The Group is subject to many different tax jurisdictions and tax rules because of its geographic spread and subject to tax audits, which are often complex and can require several years to conclude.
The total accrual for income tax in any year requires the exercise of management judgement in respect of the interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of challenge of uncertain tax positions and their subsequent settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
As amounts set aside in any year could differ from actual tax liabilities, adjustments may be required in subsequent periods, which may have a material impact on the Groups Income Statement and or cash tax payments.
Development expenditure is capitalised where the costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete the project and to use or sell the development asset.
Assumptions underlying these judgements are reviewed at least annually to ensure that the recoverability of costs is reasonably certain.
As part of the annual impairment review, judgement is required in determining the cash-generating units CGUs of the Group.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which the non-financial assets are monitored for internal management purposes.
Judgement is required as to whether or not to apply hedge accounting to derivative financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet.
Goodwill Initial measurement Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount of non-controlling interests over the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured at fair value is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Subsequent measurement Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the equity accounted investee.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is subject to impairment testing which is performed annually or when an impairment trigger event occurs.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination which generated the goodwill.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
CGUs comprise the two operating segments each sub-divided into four geographic territories.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Intangible Assets Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes.
Capitalised development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Development expenditure, which does not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset, is recognised in the Income Statement as incurred.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Land use rights Licences for the long-term use of land are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for the current year are as follows: Capitalised development expenses 5-10 years over the life of the production cycle Computer software and licenses 3-6 years Technology 4-8 years Customer platforms 11-25 years Intangible assets that are under development are not amortised until they are brought into use.
They are reviewed for indications of impairment to ensure that expectations of future economic benefits remain valid.
Where there is any indication to the contrary, capitalisation ceases and costs are expensed.
Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E PP&E is stated at historical cost, which includes expenses directly attributable to bringing assets into productive use including finance charges, less accumulated depreciation.
Assets acquired as part of the acquisition of the Group are valued at fair value as part of the acquisition accounting.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
When major components of an item of PP&E have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
Depreciation of PP&E is calculated using the straight-line method, reflecting expected patterns of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets, to allocate their cost less residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings 30-50 years Leased buildings improvements 30-50 years or the period of the lease if shorter Plant, machinery and equipment 3-20 years Depreciation is not charged on assets in the course of construction.
Once completed these are transferred to the relevant category above and depreciated accordingly.
Enhancement expenditure of PP&E items is capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of replaced parts is fide-recognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals of PP&E are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount, and are recognised net within Other income in the Income Statement.
Investment grants received against the cost of acquired PP&E assets are included in payables as deferred income and credited to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the useful lives of the relevant assets.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at CGU level, the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have previously been impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Leased Assets Assets held under leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to purchased assets of that asset type and depreciated accordingly.
Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The future rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the Income Statement over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial Instruments The below policy is relevant to amounts reported in the comparative year under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
On 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaced IAS 39.
Amounts reported in the current year have therefore been accounted for in accordance with an updated 2018 policy.
The key changes are outlined in Note 1.1.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities, other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at FVTPL are expensed as incurred.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued 1.10.1.
Financial Assets Financial assets are classified into financial assets at FVTPL, available-for-sale, and loans and receivables.
The classification is determined at the time of initial recognition and depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets.
Financial assets at FVTPL A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Contracts are marked to market by re-measuring to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that any financial asset is impaired because of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, which has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the asset that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that any debtor is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payments, the probability that any debtor will enter bankruptcy, or other financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
A financial asset is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that loss events since initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or liabilities at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified at FVTPL when they are so designated or held for trading, including derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments.
The Group enters into conventional derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risks, mostly foreign exchange forward contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 25.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently marked to market by re-measuring to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 hedging requirements.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially on the date at which the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities not classified at FVTPL, including borrowings, and trade and other payables, are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which calculates the amortised cost of a financial liability and allocates interest expense over its term.
The effective interest rate discounts estimated cash payments including all issuance discounts and transactions costs through the expected life of the financial liability, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Borrowings Borrowings, including extensions to existing agreements, are recognised initially at fair value, net of discounts and transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Any difference between the net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Interest arising on financial instruments is recognised on an accruals basis.
In assessing whether a debt alteration is to be treated as a modification or an extinguishment and new arrangement, an evaluation is made of the qualitative factors such as the underlying parties to the transaction and quantitative factors such as the impact on the net present value of remaining cash flows.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 88 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.10.3.
Hedge Accounting The Group enters into derivatives to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each Balance Sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction cash flowhedge : Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
At the inception of a hedging transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations and variability in cash flows relating to US dollar borrowings.
The Group uses interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk arising from its borrowings, which fix the interest rate for a portion of the borrowings.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement, within finance income or expense.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Statement within finance income orexpense.
Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument, relating to the effective portion of the hedge, is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair values of derivatives, which are not designated as part of a hedging relationship, are classified as current assets or liabilities.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including an appropriate proportion of overheads, and net realisable value, on the first in first out principle.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
Tooling that is being manufactured for an external customer or supplier is reported as an item of inventory until complete, and represents the gross amount recoverable from the customer in respect of costs incurred, less progress payments received.
For productive material, cost is standard cost, and for non-productive material including consumables cost is actual cost.
The standard cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads all at standard, based on normal operating conditions.
Cash discounts, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from the costs of purchase.
Other costs are included only to the extent that they are incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Provision is made for slow moving and obsolete inventory.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
A loss allowance is recognised at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses over the life of the contract if credit quality of the receivable has declined since initial recognition.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with original maturities of three months or less.
Share Capital Ordinary shares of the Company are classified as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised in equity as a deduction, net of any tax effects from the proceeds.
Trade and Other Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accrued expenses are recognised when ownership of goods or services has been transferred but not invoiced.
Trade and other payables are recognised at amortised cost.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued 1.16.
Provisions A provision is recognised if, because of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance expense.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Product warranties A product warranty provision is recognised when specific events occur with the underlying product.
The provision is based on contractual considerations, historical warranty data and expected outcomes against their associated probabilities.
Specific claims are provided for reflecting managements best estimates of potential exposure.
Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Asset retirement obligations Provisions are recognised for the estimated costs of dismantling and removing PP&E at the end of its operational life.
Provisions for site restoration in respect of contamination and lease dilapidations are made in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Revenue The below policy is relevant to amounts reported in the comparative year under IAS 18 Revenue.
On 1 January 2018, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaced IAS 18.
Amounts reported in the current year have therefore been accounted for in accordance with an updated 2018 policy outlined in Note 1.1.
Revenue from the sale of goods in the course of ordinary activities is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, discounts, sales taxes and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised when adequate evidence exists, usually in the form of an executed sales agreement, that the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The majority of the Groups revenues are derived from the supply of automotive components where the point of sale is generally ex-works from the Group.
Where consignment arrangements apply, title to the goods passes depending upon which party is exposed to the principal risks and rewards associated with ownership.
Revenue from the supply of tooling, prototypes and product development is recognised at the points of sale as specified in each contract.
Income from these activities is recognised no later than at completion of contract, except where it is evident that a loss will arise in which case the estimated loss on the contract is recognised immediately.
Other Income and Net Foreign Exchange Gains and Losses Other income includes government grants, proceeds from insurance claims, gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets and other miscellaneous items.
Other net foreign exchange gains and losses arise on movements in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and the revaluation of Group borrowings.
A significant portion of the Groups external borrowings are denominated in US dollars, and are largely on-lent to subsidiaries in the UK, whose functional currency is the Euro.
The net foreign exchange movement represents the impact of currency movements on such loans, after the effect of hedging arrangements.
Employee Benefits Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
Accrued paid absence such as holiday pay entitlement is charged to the Income Statement as earned.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under bonus plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount because of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Defined contribution plans Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts in respect of past service.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 90 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan provides an amount of benefit that an employee will receive at a later date, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, periods of service and compensation.
Defined benefit arrangements in the Group include funded and unfunded pension plans, post-employment healthcare, statutory termination indemnities and long service awards.
The liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation DBO at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
Where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the DBO, an asset is recognised only to the extent of future economic benefits accruing to the Group either as cash refunds or as a reduction in contributions.
The service cost of providing benefits for funded plans accruing during the year and any past service costs are charged as an operating expense.
The interest cost or credit arising from the unwinding of the discount on the net actuarial liability or asset is recognised in the Income Statement as finance expense or income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
The DBO is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the DBO is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related benefit obligation.
Defined benefit plans funded The Group operates funded pension plans in the US, Canada and UK.
The US plans are subject to annual actuarial review, whilst the others are formally valued at least triennially.
Assets are held in trusts and are separately administered from the Groups activities.
Assets include readily marketable equities, bonds and funds and qualifying insurance policies and are valued at fair value.
The Group makes contributions based on actuarial advice sufficient to meet the liabilities of the plans.
Defined benefit plans unfunded including healthcare The Group operates unfunded employment benefit plans in certain countries of which the most significant are post-employment healthcare in the US, a closed arrangement, and pension plans in Germany.
Other liabilities include statutory termination indemnities and long service awards.
Share-based compensation The fair value of equity settled payments to employees is determined at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the expense is recognised in the Income Statement on the straight-line basis over the period that the employees become entitled to the awards.
The credit entry relating to the awards is recorded in equity Note 7.
The Group reviews the estimate of the number of shares expected to vest at each balance sheet date.
The total amount expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, including any market performance and any non-vesting conditions, and excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
Income Tax The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income and equity.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Uncertain tax positions The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits which are often complex and can take several years to conclude.
Therefore, the accrual for current tax includes provisions for uncertain tax positions, which require estimates for each matter and the exercise of judgement in respect of the interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge to historic positions.
Management uses in-house tax experts, professional advisers and previous experience when assessing tax risks.
Where appropriate, estimates of interest and penalties are included in these provisions.
As amounts provided for in any year could differ from eventual tax liabilities, subsequent adjustments may arise which have a material impact on the Groups tax rate and or cash tax payments.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable profits.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 1.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities, where there is an intention to settle the balances on a netbasis.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are defined as those items that, by virtue of their nature, size and expected frequency, warrant separate additional disclosure in the consolidated financial statements in order to fully understand the underlying performance of the Group.
These may include the costs of closure of locations or significant headcount reductions, costs arising from the acquisition or disposal of businesses including related contractual management incentive charges, transaction costs of a significant and non-recurring nature, debt-refinancing costs including early redemption premiums on voluntary repayments of borrowings, impairment charges, share option costs prior to the initial public offering, and the recognition of previously fide-recognised deferred tax assets.
Dividends Receivable Dividends from associates and other investments of the Group and dividends receivable by the Company are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Payable Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the Statement of Changes in Equity in the period in which they are approved.
Deferred Income Deferred income is recorded when consideration for goods or services provided by the Group is received before the revenue is recognised.
Segment reporting Notes to segment reporting In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Groups segment reporting is based on the management approach with regard to segment identification: under which information regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM for decision making purposes forms the basis of the disclosure.
The Companys CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The CODM evaluates the performance of the Companys segments primarily on the basis of revenue, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBIT, both non-IFRS measures.
Two operating segments have been identified by the Group: Fluid Carrying Systems FCS and Fuel Tank and Delivery Systems FTDS.
Fluid Carrying Systems FCS FCS products include brake and fuel lines and bundles, thermal management fluid systems including HEV and EV heating and cooling lines, powertrain components and quick-connectors.
There is a high degree of vertical integration from the purchase of raw materials, through tube manufacturing to the assembly of finished products.
Fuel Tank and Delivery Systems FTDS FTDS products include plastic fuel tanks, filler pipes, pumps and modules, and level sensors.
The Group recognises revenue on a point in time basis, when the performance obligation to manufacture and deliver products has been satisfied and control of the parts has transferred to the customer.
Volume requirements and delivery schedules are communicated using frequent release orders with many customers utilising electronic delivery interfaces to transmit such information and self-billing processes to manage their payment obligations.
Payment terms are typically between 30 and 60 days from date ofinvoicing.
Tooling, Prototype and Development TPD Within both segments, further revenue streams are recognised for distinct TPD services chargeable to a customer.
Revenue recognition for such activities occurs at the point in time control of the goods and services is transferred to the customer.
This is typically PPAP or SOP, depending on the specific terms of the agreement, as at this point all agreed upon specifications have been met.
Project durations vary depending on the scope and complexity of requirements.
Payment terms are typically 30 to 60 days post-customer acceptance.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 92 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Allocation of corporate costs Corporate costs comprise costs of stewardship of the Group.
Costs incurred in administrative services performed at the corporate level are allocated to divisions in line with utilisation of the services.
Where direct allocation is not possible, costs are allocated based on revenue for the year.
Revenue, Adjusted EBIT and Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairments by Segment: 2018 2017 m m Revenue 3,472.8 3,490.9 Profit for the year 140.1 115.2 Add back: Income tax expense after exceptional items 77.0 42.8 Profit before tax 217.1 158.0 Net finance expense after exceptional items 64.5 115.3 Share of profit of associates 0.5 0.3 Operating profit 281.1 273.0 Depreciation and impairment of PP&E 101.5 98.8 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 95.6 96.1 Share of profit of associates 0.5 0.3 EBITDA 478.7 468.2 Exceptional items administrative expenses 40.2 Net foreign exchange gains 1.2 24.6 Bain management fee 3.9 Dividend received from associates 0.2 0.4 Restructuring costs 7.1 2.9 Share of profit of associates 0.5 0.3 Adjusted EBITDA 484.3 490.7 Less: Depreciation and impairment of PP&E 101.5 98.8 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 95.6 96.1 Add back: Depreciation uplift arising on purchase accounting Note 15 15.7 15.5 Amortisation uplift arising on purchase accounting Note 14 70.6 72.2 Adjusted EBIT 373.5 383.5 2018 2017 m m Revenue FCS External 2,026.7 2,057.1 Inter-segment 82.4 81.0 2,109.1 2,138.1 FTDS External 1,446.1 1,433.8 Inter-segment 2.0 0.9 1,448.1 1,434.7 Inter-segment elimination 84.4 81.9 Total consolidated revenue 3,472.8 3,490.9 Adjusted EBITDA FCS 291.1 319.9 FTDS 193.2 170.8 484.3 490.7 Adjusted EBITDA % of revenue FCS 14.4% 15.5% FTDS 13.4% 11.9% Total 13.9% 14.1% Adjusted EBIT FCS 241.0 271.1 FTDS 132.5 112.4 373.5 383.5 Adjusted EBIT % of revenue FCS 11.9% 13.2% FTDS 9.2% 7.8% Total 10.8% 11.0% TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 2.
Non-Current Assets and Inventories FCS FTDS Total 31 December 2018 m m m Intangible assets excluding goodwill 300.7 195.8 496.5 Property, plant and equipment 380.2 326.3 706.5 Inventories 198.1 154.7 352.8 FCS FTDS Total 31 December 2017 m m m Intangible assets excluding goodwill 352.1 196.9 549.0 Property, plant and equipment 375.0 311.8 686.8 Inventories 190.5 138.8 329.3 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 94 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
Financial Risk Management The Board of Directors and key management have overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management policies, which are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Groups capital structure comprising of debt Note 24 and equity Note 20 is regularly monitored to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to provide returns for shareholders and value added benefits for other stakeholders.
The overall debt structure of the Group is designed to meet the strategic objectives of the Company and its shareholders.
The level of debt is monitored on an actual and projected basis to ensure compliance with the covenants in the Groups main borrowings facilities.
The Group has exposure to the following significant risks from its activities: 3.1. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
The following categories comprise the main credit exposures of the Group: Trade and other receivables Cash and cash equivalent balances Derivatives or other financial instruments The credit risk for trade and other receivables is normally managed by the operating subsidiaries by reference to credit rating agencies and historic trading experience with customers further details are available in Note 18.
Cash, which is surplus to normal working capital needs and any approved capital investments in the operating subsidiaries, is managed by Group Treasury.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by Group policies and managed by Group Treasury.
In most cases, the counterparties are investment grade banks.
The portfolio of derivatives is spread across six counterparties with no one dominant financial institution.
The credit ratings of the financial institutions used are A3 or better.
Guarantees issued by third parties comprise letters of credit and other bank guarantees, nearly all of which are of a stand-by nature.
Most of the issuing banks are rated investment grade and these ratings are monitored.
If any of these banks became unable to meet their obligations under a guarantee, it is expected that a similar guarantee could be issued by another bank or alternative security provided to the beneficiary.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due.
The Group has access to various forms of funding and these are considered sufficient to meet anticipated liquidity requirements.
The Directors believe that there is currently no significant risk that the Group will be unable to fund its planned commitments.
Cash flow forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements are monitored regularly to ensure there is sufficient cash and undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet operational needs of the Group over the medium term.
Surplus cash generated by the operating entities over and above balances required for normal working capital and any approved investment is managed by GroupTreasury.
Market Risk Market risk, is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income, expenditure or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The Group enters into derivative contracts, and incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
Foreign Currency Risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on revenue, purchases, investments and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group entities, which are primarily Euro, US dollars, Chinese renminbi and Korean won.
Where possible, business entities sell in prices denominated in the same currency as the majority of their costs, to produce a natural hedge.
At the reporting date, the majority of cash and cash equivalents in the Group were denominated in Euro, US dollars and Chinese renminbi.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage much of the residual transactional currency risk.
Derivative instruments used by the Group to manage foreign currency exposure fall under the following main categories: TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Financial Risk Management continued Forward foreign exchange contracts not designated in hedge relationships The nominal value of these derivatives as at 31 December 2018 was 172.7 million 31 December 2017: 135.9 million and the aggregate fair value was 1.3 million payable 31 December 2017: 1.3 million payable.
Forward foreign exchange contracts designated in cash flow hedge relationships In October 2015, the Group entered into a series of forward foreign exchange contracts and US dollar interest rate swaps with a number of financial institutions.
In aggregate, these instruments converted a portion of the drawings under the main borrowing facilities of $400.0 million at floating interest rates into 355.0 million at a fixed interest rate of 4.2%.
These contracts hedge foreign exchange exposure on US dollar-based intra-group borrowings, in Euro functional-currency group entities.
The average strike price in these contracts is 1.17 US dollar to the Euro.
The hedge ratio of this economic relationship is 1:1.
The nominal value of the forward foreign exchange contracts in this arrangement as at 31 December 2018 was 590.6 million 31 December 2017: 616.6 million, and their aggregate fair value was 20.8 million payable 31 December 2017: 54.0m payable.
A fair value gain of 36.1 million 31December 2017: 66.8 million loss, was recorded in other comprehensive income in the year, and a 36.6 million gain 31December 2017: 76.3 million loss was subsequently recycled to the Income Statement.
An ineffectiveness loss of 0.6 million 31 December 2017: 3.2 million loss was recorded in the Income Statement Note 11.
Forward foreign exchange contracts designated in net investment hedges In October 2015, the Group entered into a series of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the net investment in the Groups Korean won subsidiary.
The nominal value of these derivatives as at 31 December 2018 was KRW 265,893 million 186.2 million 31 December 2017: KRW 265,893 million 186.2 million : and their aggregate fair value was 17.2 million payable 31 December 2017: 10.0 million payable.
A fair value loss of 7.2 million 31 December 2017: loss of 3.2 million was recorded in other comprehensive income in the year for these contracts.
No amounts were recycled during the year and there was no ineffectiveness.
Sensitivity analysis The Group is primarily exposed to changes in Euro KRW exchange rates on its hedging derivatives and associated net investments and Euro US dollar exchange rates on its borrowings and associated hedging instruments.
The Groups exposure to a - 1% change in Euro KRW exchange rate would be a 0.2 million profit 0.2 million loss arising from those Euro KRW contracts that do not qualify for investment hedge accounting.
Those Euro KRW contracts that qualified for hedge accounting impact equity: however, that movement would be offset by a substantially equal and opposite movement arising from the Groups exposure to the net investment in KRW subsidiaries.
The sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the Euro US dollar exchange rates arises from US dollar denominated intercompany financial instruments, which are partially offset by forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges held at the Balance Sheet date.
The profit and loss impact associated with these hedges and the related financial instrument exposure is not significant due to the application of hedge accounting.
The Groups net Income Statement exposure to Euro US dollar contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the net unhedged intercompany loans subject to Euro US dollar risk is also insignificant.
The Groups Income Statement exposure to other foreign exchange movements is not significant.
Interest Rate Risk Most of the Groups interest rate risk arises on its main external borrowing facilities.
The interest expense arising from the secured term loans, denominated in US dollars and Euro, are based on floating rates of respectively, one month US dollar LIBOR minimum 0.75% 2.5% p. a. and three month EURIBOR minimum 0.75% 2.75% p. a both effective from 30 December 2017.
Interest rate swaps As noted above, the Group has used interest rate swaps to manage the risk and used such contracts, together with the forward foreign exchange contracts to fix in 355.0 million of debt at 4.2%.
The notional value of the interest rate swaps as at 31 December 2018 was $400.0 million 31 December 2017: $400.0 million and their fair value was 7.7 million receivable 31 December 2017: 7.0million receivable.
In aggregate, a fair value gain of 2.7 million 31 December 2017: 1.9 million gain has been recorded in other comprehensive income during the year and a 2.5 million gain 31 December 2017: 0.7 million loss was subsequently recycled to the income statement.
No ineffectiveness was recorded in the Income Statement.
Interest rate floors The aggregate fair value of these derivatives as at 31 December 2018 was 2.6 million payable 31 December 2017: 3.9 million payable.
Sensitivity analysis If interest rates had been 100 bps higher or lower with all other variables held constant, after taking account of hedging arrangements, the pre-tax profit or loss on an annual basis would be respectively, 4.3 million lower, or 4.3 million higher.
There would be no significant impact on equity.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 96 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.
Transaction price allocated to started but incomplete performance obligations 2018 m Tooling, prototype and development revenue to be recognised in one year 72.5 Tooling, prototype and development revenue to be recognised in more than one year 40.5 113.0 5.
Cost of Sales, Distribution Costs and Administrative Expenses 5.1.
Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 2018 2017 m m Cost of sales 2,938.2 2,928.5 Distribution costs 102.4 103.7 Administrative expenses 164.5 218.0 Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses, including exceptional items 3,205.1 3,250.2 The nature of costs included in cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses is as follows: 2018 2017 Notes m m Materials and other operating costs 1,944.3 1,957.4 Personnel costs 6.1 834.5 843.7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 197.1 194.9 Operating lease payments 46.6 48.6 Utilities 61.9 60.1 Repairs and maintenance 46.3 49.6 Freight inward, including customs duties 74.4 66.8 Exceptional costs excluding share option costs 9 29.1 Total cost of sales, distribution costs and administrative expenses 3,205.1 3,250.2 Personnel costs include share option costs Note 7.
Administrative expenses comprise the costs of the Groups administration, commercial and finance functions, along with all other corporate operating costs.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 5.
Cost of Sales, Distribution Costs and Administrative Expenses continued 5.2.
Research and development expenditure Research and development expenditure before third party income, comprised: 2018 2017 Notes m m Research and development expenses 40.8 43.0 Capitalised development expenses 14.2 35.4 33.6 Total research and development expenditure 76.2 76.6 6.
Personnel costs 2018 2017 Notes m m Wages and salaries including termination benefits 684.7 688.7 Share-based costs 7 4.0 11.3 Social security costs 132.7 137.4 Pension and other post-employment costs: defined benefit current service cost 26.2 7.4 7.7 Pension and other post-employment costs: defined benefit curtailment gain 26.2 7.7 Pension and other post-employment costs: defined contribution 5.7 6.3 Total personnel costs 834.5 843.7 Wages and salaries costs in the year include employee severance amounts totalling 7.0 million 2017: 3.0 million.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel comprise the Board of Directors and key officers who report directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The total number of key management personnel was 14 31 December 2017: 13.
At no time during 2018 or 2017 were any loans to key management personnel made by the Group.
2018 2017 Compensation of key management personnel m m Short-term employee benefits 10.1 12.5 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based costs 2.0 3.7 Total 12.2 16.3 There was 4.3 million of compensation outstanding at 31 December 2018 2017: 8.4 million.
In addition to salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to key management personnel and contributes to post-employment pension plans on their behalf.
Personnel numbers Average monthly number of people employed by function 2018 2017 Direct production 15,220 15,290 Indirect operational 7,876 7,714 Commercial and administration 1,656 1,558 Total 24,752 24,562 In addition to the above, the Group employed an average of 3,921 agency and other temporary workers during the year 2017: 3,529 whose costs were included in other operating costs.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 98 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.
Share-based Compensation The Omega Holdco II Limited 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, as adopted on 30 June 2015, was cancelled in the prior year as part of the October 2017 IPO.
The vesting charge up until cancellation was 5.4 million, with a further 4.9 million of accelerated charge arising on cancellation.
All share option costs prior to the IPO were recorded as exceptional administrative expenses Note 5.
At cancellation, option holders were compensated by a combination of shares issued and replacement awards in the form of Restricted Stock Awards RSAs or Restricted Stock Units RSUs.
A total of 1,054,838 RSUs and 2,623,412 RSAs were granted and outstanding in 2017, with 50% vesting on 1 December 2018 and 50% vesting on 1 December 2019, subject to the participants continued employment with the Company.
In the current year, the RSAs and RSUs gave rise to a charge of 1.1 million year ended 31 December 2017: 0.2 million.
Since the IPO, all share-based costs are recognised in administrative expenses before exceptional items.
On 24 October 2017, the TI Fluid Systems plc Long Term Incentive Plan was adopted.
On 30 April 2018 the Company granted 5,250,000 conditional awards over its shares to selected key executives of the Group.
75,000 conditional awards were forfeited during the year 2017: nil.
The awards comprise two tranches including an outperformance target for Executive Directors each with a separate performance condition, as outlined in the below table.
Vesting is over three years from date of grant and contingent on continued service and attainment of the applicable performance condition, within the three-year performance period, commencing on 1 January 2018.
Tranche Percentage of award grant Performance Condition Performance Condition Classification EPS Growth EPS 80% EPS compound annual growth Non-market-based rate over performance period Total Shareholder Return 20% Rank of the Companys total Market-based TSR shareholder return for the performance period against the FTSE 250 Executive Directors are entitled to bonus shares of up to 133% of their awards, subject to achieving an enhanced target in relation to the relevant performance condition.
Award holders are entitled to a dividend equivalent payment, in respect of their conditional awards, for all ordinary dividends that are declared and paid between the award date and the settlement date.
These may be paid in cash at the date of vesting, or paid in the form of additional conditional awards, subject to the same conditions as the original grant.
As the awards are settled in shares of the Company, or cash at the discretion of the Company, they are accounted for as equity settled awards under IFRS 2 and fair valued at date of grant using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model EPS tranche and Monte Carlo simulation TSR tranche.
The fair value is recognised in the Income Statement straight line over the vesting period, with the anticipated number of awards vesting adjusted for managements estimate of forfeiture rate and attainment of non-market-based performance conditions.
Achievement of market-based performance conditions is reflected in the initial fair value of the award.
The key assumptions used in the calculation for the conditional share awards granted on 30 April 2018 were: 30 April 2018 EPS TSR Share price 3.01 3.01 Expected life 3 years 3 years Expected volatility 32.80% 32.80% Expected volatility of comparator companies share price na 27.90% Correlation between the Company and competitors share price na 23.00% Expected dividend yield % % Risk free interest rate 0.85% 0.85% The fair value of the awards granted in the year ended 31 December 2018 was 3.01 for the EPS tranche and 1.86 for the TSR tranche.
The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the Companys share price since its admission to trading on 25 October 2017.
The expected volatility of the comparator companies share prices and correlation to TIFS were measured over a three-year period, commensurate with the expected term of the awards.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 7.
Share-based Compensation continued The risk-free rate of return was based on zero-coupon UK government bond yields corresponding to the expected term.
As award holders are entitled to dividend equivalent compensation during the vesting period, no dividend yield assumption is required in the valuation of these awards.
The total charge for the year for conditional share awards was 2.9 million 2017: 11.1 million.
Directors Remuneration The Directors emoluments, fees, payments for service, compensation for cancelled shares under long-term incentive schemes, and pension benefits are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Exceptional Items 2018 2017 Notes m m Share option costs prior to the IPO 11.1 Restructuring costs 3.4 IPO 2016 expenses 1.5 IPO 2017 expenses 27.2 Administrative expenses 40.2 Early redemption premium on voluntary repayments of borrowings 24.4 8.2 17.7 Unamortised issuance discounts and fees expensed on voluntary repayments of borrowings 24.4 3.6 8.7 Finance expense 11.8 26.4 Income tax expense 12 25.4 Total exceptional expense recognised in Income Statement 11.8 41.2 Income tax expense recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 12 15.0 Total exceptional expense 11.8 56.2 The exceptional net finance expense relates to voluntary repayments of borrowings and comprises an early redemption premium of 8.2 million 2017: 17.7 million and the expense of unamortised issuance discounts and fees of 3.6 million 2017: 8.7 million.
See Note 24.4 for additional details.
Share option costs incurred prior to the IPO in October 2017 are considered exceptional as they represent compensation arrangements made to incentivise staff in relation to transactions undertaken by the Group and its shareholders.
Restructuring costs of 3.4 million in the prior year relate to the exit of operations in Australia.
IPO expenses for the prior year consist of 27.2 million in relation to costs incurred during 2017, offset by a 1.5 million reversal in the carried forward 2016 accrual.
These costs were incurred in preparing the Company for the IPO.
Other Income 2018 2017 m m Government grants 2.2 1.4 Insurance claims 0.5 Losses gains on disposal of PP&E and intangible assets 0.6 0.2 Other miscellaneous items 10.1 6.1 Total other income 12.2 7.7 Other miscellaneous items include 5.3 million in relation to the current year settlement of certain legal claims sought by the Group.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 100 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11.
Finance Income and Expense 2018 2017 Notes m m Finance income Interest on short-term deposits, other financial assets and other interest income 1.9 1.9 Fair value gain on derivatives and foreign exchange contracts not in hedged relationships 9.0 9.3 Net interest income on release of specific uncertain tax positions 3.4 Finance income 14.3 11.2 Finance expense Interest payable on term loans including expensed fees 51.7 56.9 Interest payable on unsecured senior notes including expensed fees 9.3 33.3 Net interest expense of retirement benefit obligations 26.2 4.4 5.7 Fair value net losses on financial instruments: ineffectiveness 0.6 3.2 Utilisation of discount on provisions and other finance expense 1.0 1.0 Finance expense excluding exceptional items 67.0 100.1 Early redemption premium on voluntary repayments of borrowings 24.4 8.2 17.7 Unamortised issuance discounts and fees expensed on voluntary repayments of borrowings 24.4 3.6 8.7 Exceptional finance expense 11.8 26.4 Total finance expense 78.8 126.5 Total net finance expense after exceptional items 64.5 115.3 2018 2017 Fees included in interest payable under the effective interest method m m Fees included in interest payable on term loans 6.5 7.5 Fees included in interest payable on unsecured senior notes 0.4 1.4 2018 2017 Fees expensed in exceptional net finance expense m m Fees expensed in respect of term loans 4.2 Fees expensed in respect of unsecured senior notes 3.6 4.5 12.
Income Tax 12.1 Income Tax Expense 2018 2017 m m Current tax on profit for the year 96.5 89.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14.2 5.1 Total current tax expense 82.3 94.7 Origination and reversal of temporary deferred tax differences 5.3 26.5 Exceptional impact of change in US tax rate 25.4 Total deferred tax benefit 5.3 51.9 Income tax expense Income Statement 77.0 42.8 Origination and reversal of temporary deferred tax differences 4.3 0.1 Exceptional impact of change in US tax rate 15.0 Income tax expense Statement of Comprehensive Income 4.3 14.9 Total income tax expense 81.3 57.7 2018 2017 Previously fide-recognised deferred tax assets in the year m m Income Statement 4.7 Statement of Comprehensive Income 2.0 Previously fide-recognised deferred tax assets in the year 6.7 Deferred tax assets originating from tax loss carry forwards mainly relate to Canada and France as at 31 December 2018.
Forecasts for Canada and France demonstrate several years of continued future profitability and all have consistent expectations of future financial performance.
As a result management believe that the current tax losses will be utilised.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
Income Tax continued For 2017 only, as a result of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the Group recognised 25.4 millionof exceptional deferred tax benefit in the Income Statement and 15.0 million of exceptional deferred tax charge in the Statement of Comprehensive Income to reflect the newUScorporate tax rate of 21% and other tax reform changes, offset by a0.6 million one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK statutory tax rate applicable to profits of the consolidated entities as follows: 2018 2017 m m Profit before income tax 217.1 158.0 Income tax calculated at UK statutory tax rate of 19.00% 2017: 19.25% applicable to profits in respective countries 41.2 30.4 Tax effects of: Overseas tax rates excluding associates 18.9 23.1 Income not subject to tax other and UK foreign exchange gain 11.3 14.1 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes other and UK non-deductible interest 17.1 25.7 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes transaction costs 9.0 Temporary differences on unremitted earnings 3.1 5.9 Specific tax provisions 3.5 2.2 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 11.2 7.5 Other taxes 9.7 11.5 Adjustment in respect of prior years current tax adjustments 14.2 5.1 Adjustment in respect of prior years deferred tax adjustments 1.0 16.2 Impact of changes in tax rate 0.2 2.2 Exceptional impact of change in US tax rate 25.4 Double tax relief and other tax credits 3.0 7.9 Income tax expense Income Statement 77.0 42.8 Deferred tax expense credit on re-measurement of retirement benefit obligations 4.3 0.1 Exceptional impact of change in US tax rate 15.0 Income tax expense Statement of Comprehensive Income 4.3 14.9 Total tax expense 81.3 57.7 Other taxes comprised various local taxes of 2.4 million 2017: 4.2 million including US Transition Tax, together with taxes withheld on dividend, interest and royalty remittances totalling 7.3 million 2017: 7.3 million.
Factors that may affect future tax charges include the continued non-recognition of deferred tax assets in certain territories as well as the existence of tax losses in certain territories which could be available to offset future taxable income in certain territories and for which no deferred tax asset is currently recognised.
Current Income Tax Assets and Liabilities 2018 2017 m m Current income tax assets 4.4 8.2 Current income tax liabilities 60.2 69.6 Net current income tax liabilities 55.8 61.4 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 102 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Uncertain tax positions The Group maintains a provision for uncertain tax positions.
As at 31 December 2018 the balance was 34.7 million 2017: 44.1 million.
The decrease in the balance between 2018 and 2017 is attributable to favourable tax audit resolutions in Spain and in the Czech Republic for which a provision was previously reported for each territory.
The Group is aware of an increase in global tax audit scrutiny and therefore continues to closely monitor tax uncertainties in all geographic regions.
As each uncertain tax provision is considered more likely than not to materialise, settlement of the issues that have been provided should not result in a material impact to the effective tax rate.
However, in the event that a favourable conclusion is reached on an uncertain tax position, release of the provision would have a favourable impact on the Groups effective tax rate.
In the event that a conclusion is reached that exceeds the amount provided for an uncertain tax position, there would be an unfavourable impact on the Groups effective tax rate.
It is possible that certain tax issues related to the remaining uncertain tax provisions could settle within the next 12 months although the timing of the settlement is not certain.
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 2018 2017 m m Deferred tax assets 34.9 51.0 Deferred tax liabilities 141.6 159.8 Net deferred tax liabilities 106.7 108.8 12.3.
Movement on Net Deferred Tax Liabilities 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 108.8 151.6 Income Statement benefit 5.3 26.5 Exceptional Income Statement benefit impact of change in US tax rate 25.4 Tax on remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 4.3 0.1 Exceptional tax on remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations impact of change in US tax rate 15.0 Currency translation 1.1 5.8 At 31 December 106.7 108.8 12.3.
Gross Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities The analysis of deferred tax assets and liabilities below represents gross amounts before netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities in certain tax jurisdictions as reflected in the table in 12.3 above.
Assets Liabilities Provision for Excess pensions depreciation Acquisition and Deferred Other on fixed related Gross deferred employee interest Tax specific assets and Development intangible Unremitted tax assets and benefits deductions losses provisions goodwill intangibles assets Loan fees earnings Total liabilities m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2018 43.6 15.5 22.4 27.4 63.6 24.5 102.8 4.9 21.9 108.8 Included in the Income Statement 1.3 1.8 9.2 1.7 2.3 1.4 17.2 1.1 2.7 5.3 Included in other comprehensive income 4.3 4.3 Currency translation 1.3 0.7 0.1 1.1 1.1 0.1 1.4 0.2 0.9 1.1 At 31 December 2018 39.3 14.4 13.1 26.8 62.4 23.2 87.0 4.0 23.7 106.7 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
Income Tax continued Assets Liabilities Provision Excess for pensions depreciation Acquisition and Deferred Other on fixed related Gross deferred employee interest Tax specific assets and Development intangible Unremitted tax assets and benefits deductions losses provisions goodwill intangibles assets Loan fees earnings Total liabilities m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 70.3 36.2 21.0 22.4 86.4 25.6 150.9 38.6 151.6 Included in the Income Statement 2.9 8.1 2.1 7.7 3.1 2.0 20.1 8.1 14.6 26.5 Exceptional impact of change in US tax rate 2.7 9.2 0.7 14.4 2.2 18.5 2.9 25.4 Included in other comprehensive income 0.1 0.1 Exceptional impact in other comprehensive income impact of change in US tax rate 15.0 15.0 Currency translation 6.2 3.4 0.7 2.0 5.3 0.9 9.5 0.3 2.1 5.8 At 31 December 2017 43.6 15.5 22.4 27.4 63.6 24.5 102.8 4.9 21.9 108.8 12.4.
Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
At 31 December 2018 the Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets net of specific tax provisions of 135.5 million 2017: 113.2 million.
This is principally represented by gross tax losses in respect of which no deferred income tax asset was recognised before the netting of specific provisions amounting to 609.4 million 2017: 549.8 million that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
All tax losses referred to above can be carried forward without time limitation UK and Brazil.
Earnings Per Share 13.1 Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share The calculation of earnings per share EPS has been based on the following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share has been based on the following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
in cents 2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 26.53 29.55 Diluted earnings per share 26.44 29.52 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders m 2018 2017 Earnings used in basic EPS 137.8 112.5 Earnings used in diluted EPS 137.8 112.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic Number of shares in millions 2018 2017 Number of ordinary shares as at 1 January 519.4 350.1 Effect of new shares issued 0.1 30.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares as at 31 December 519.5 380.7 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 104 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted Number of shares in millions 2018 2017 Weighted average of ordinary shares basic 519.5 380.7 Effect of share options outstanding as at 31 December 1.6 0.4 Weighted average number of shares as at 31 December diluted 521.1 381.1 13.2 Pro forma Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share For the purpose of Pro forma Adjusted Basic EPS for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, the average number of ordinary shares is stated as if the shares issued in the year occurred at the beginning of the financial year.
Pro forma Adjusted Basic EPS is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by the number of shares in issue at the current balance sheet date.
A reconciliation of Adjusted Net Income can be found in the Financial Review.
2018 2017 in cents Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share 29.85 26.18 Earnings used in Pro forma Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share 2018 2017 m Pro forma Pro forma Earnings used in Pro forma Adjusted Basic EPS 155.2 136.0 Pro forma Adjusted Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 2018 2017 Number of shares in millions Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma average number of ordinary shares as at 1 January 519.9 519.4 Pro forma average number of ordinary shares as at 31 December 519.9 519.4 14.
Intangible Assets 2018 2017 m m Goodwill 733.3 724.9 Capitalised development expenses, computer software and licences, technology and customer platforms 496.5 549.0 Total intangible assets 1,229.8 1,273.9 14.1.
Goodwill m Cost at 1 January 2018 724.9 Currency translation 8.4 Cost at 31 December 2018 733.3 Accumulated impairment at 1 January 2018 Accumulated impairment at 31 December 2018 Net book value at 31 December 2018 733.3 m Cost at 1 January 2017 767.2 Currency translation 42.3 Cost at 31 December 2017 724.9 Accumulated impairment at 1 January 2017 Accumulated impairment at 31 December 2017 Net book value at 31 December 2017 724.9 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 14.
Capitalised Development Expenses, Computer Software and Licences, Technology and Customer Platforms Capitalised Computer development software, and Customer expenses licences Technology Platforms Total m m m m m Cost at 1 January 2018 168.8 13.4 127.2 461.9 771.3 Accumulated amortisation 47.5 8.0 71.3 95.5 222.3 Net book value at 1 January 2018 121.3 5.4 55.9 366.4 549.0 Additions 35.4 1.3 36.7 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Amortisation charge 22.4 1.6 30.1 40.5 94.6 Impairments 1.0 1.0 Currency translation 1.2 0.1 0.7 5.0 7.0 Net book value at 31 December 2018 133.9 5.2 26.5 330.9 496.5 Cost 205.4 15.0 130.7 469.0 820.1 Accumulated amortisation 71.5 9.8 104.2 138.1 323.6 Net book value at 31 December 2018 133.9 5.2 26.5 330.9 496.5 Capitalised Computer development software, and Customer expenses licences Technology Platforms Total m m m m m Cost at 1 January 2017 141.4 10.1 137.2 496.8 785.5 Accumulated amortisation 27.6 5.0 46.4 60.9 139.9 Net book value at 1 January 2017 113.8 5.1 90.8 435.9 645.6 Additions 33.6 2.1 35.7 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Amortisation charge 20.1 2.3 30.4 41.8 94.6 Impairments 1.5 1.5 Currency translation 4.0 0.5 4.5 27.7 35.7 Net book value at 31 December 2017 121.3 5.4 55.9 366.4 549.0 Cost 168.8 13.4 127.2 461.9 771.3 Accumulated amortisation 47.5 8.0 71.3 95.5 222.3 Net book value at 31 December 2017 121.3 5.4 55.9 366.4 549.0 The above amortisation charges for technology and customer platforms amounting to 70.6million 2017: 72.2million arise from intangible assets recognised through purchase price accounting.
Amortisation charges are included within cost of sales.
Impairment Tests for Goodwill and Intangibles The purchase of TIFS Holdings Ltd TIFSHL on 30 June 2015, which was the previous Parent Company of the Group, and the consequent fair valuation of assets and liabilities, resulted in total goodwill recognition of 711.1 million and intangibles of 663.2million.
The purchase of Millennium Industries Corporation on 16 February 2016 resulted in total goodwill recognition of 57.1million and intangibles of 72.6 million.
Goodwill and intangibles are monitored by management at the operating division level and then the geographic sub-division level.
Goodwill and intangibles amount to 674.0 million and 300.7 million respectively for FCS 31 December 2017: 665.5 million and 351.5 million, and 59.3 million and 195.8 million respectively for FTDS 31 December 2017: 59.4 million and 197.6 million.
The geographic split by cash-generating unit CGU of goodwill within FCS is: Asia Pacific 236.5 million 31 December 2017: 237.9 million, North America 219.1 million 31 December 2017: 209.2 million and Europe 218.4 million 31 December 2017: 218.4 million.
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
It is currently carried at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
Intangibles assets are amortised over their useful economic life, which range from 3 to 25 years.
The annual impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the non-financial assets of a business or CGU to their recoverable amount.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results.
During the year, the non-financial assets of the Group were tested for impairment, with all CGUs demonstrating a recoverable amount in excess of their carrying value and therefore no impairment charge has been recorded.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 106 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The recoverable amount for the CGUs has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
These calculations use post tax cash flow projections from financial plans approved by the Board, covering a five-year period, plus a terminal value.
The range of discount and growth rates used were as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rates FCS FTDS FCS FTDS North America 11.50% 12.25% 11.75% 12.00% Europe & Africa 12.50% 12.75% 12.75% 13.00% Asia Pacific 12.75% 12.75% 13.00% 13.25% Latin America 19.50% 18.50% 20.25% 19.25% Long-term growth rates North America 3.00% 3.00% 2.50% 2.50% Europe & Africa 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% Asia Pacific 4.00% 3.50% 4.00% 3.50% Latin America 8.00% 6.00% 8.00% 6.00% The Group believes that any reasonably probable change in the assumptions would not cause the carrying value of non-financial assets within the respective CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount.
Movements in Property, Plant and Equipment Plant, Assets machinery in the Land and and course of buildings equipment construction Total m m m m Cost 167.6 648.1 95.4 911.1 Accumulated depreciation 13.5 210.8 224.3 Net book value at 1 January 2018 154.1 437.3 95.4 686.8 Additions 2.0 85.2 29.7 116.9 Disposals 0.1 0.3 0.4 Impairments 0.5 0.5 Transfers between categories 7.6 22.6 30.2 Depreciation charge 6.5 94.5 101.0 Currency translation 0.9 2.8 1.0 4.7 Net book value at 31 December 2018 158.0 452.6 95.9 706.5 Cost 176.7 754.2 95.9 1,026.8 Accumulated depreciation 18.7 301.6 320.3 Net book value at 31 December 2018 158.0 452.6 95.9 706.5 Assets Plant, in the Land and machinery and course of buildings equipment construction Total m m m m Cost 174.8 595.0 69.6 839.4 Accumulated depreciation 9.0 130.7 139.7 Net book value at 1 January 2017 165.8 464.3 69.6 699.7 Additions 1.8 54.9 65.6 122.3 Disposals 0.4 0.4 0.2 1.0 Impairments 1.1 1.1 Transfers between categories 1.0 34.7 33.7 Depreciation charge 5.2 92.5 97.7 Currency translation 6.9 22.6 5.9 35.4 Net book value at 31 December 2017 154.1 437.3 95.4 686.8 Cost 167.6 648.1 95.4 911.1 Accumulated depreciation 13.5 210.8 224.3 Net book value at 31 December 2017 154.1 437.3 95.4 686.8 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 15.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued 15.2.
Depreciation Charge The above depreciation charge includes 15.7million, comprising 1.1million from land and buildings and 14.6million from plant, machinery, and equipment in relation to the fair value uplift arising from purchase price accounting 2017: 15.5million, comprising 1.5million, from land and buildings and 14.0million from plant, machinery, and equipment The total depreciation charge is analysed below: 2018 2017 m m Cost of sales 97.8 93.9 Distribution costs 1.1 1.3 Administrative expenses 2.0 2.5 Total depreciation charge 100.9 97.7 15.3.
Leased Assets Leased assets included above comprised: 2018 2017 Land and buildings m m Cost 19.0 23.4 Accumulated depreciation 1.9 4.5 At 31 December 17.1 18.9 The depreciation charge for leased assets in the year was 2.1 million 2017: 1.8 million.
The Groups obligations under finance leases Note 24.6 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Investments in Associates The Groups only associated undertaking is SeAH FS Co. Ltd SeAH FS.
The Group holds 20% of the issued ordinary shares.
SeAH FS is registered in South Korea and is engaged in manufacturing and engineering.
Its financial year-end is 31 December and its registered address is 180-15 Kebong-Dong Young, Deoungpo-Gu, Seoul.
SeAH FS is a private company, and there is no quoted price available for its shares.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups investment.
There were no sales of goods by the Group to SeAH FS in either 2018 or 2017.
Purchases of goods by the Group from SeAH FS in the year totalled 13.7 million 2017: 19.6 million.
2018 2017 Movements in investment in associate m m Balance at 1 January 19.2 19.4 Share of profit for the year 0.5 0.3 Dividends paid 0.2 0.4 Currency translation 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 19.6 19.2 2018 2017 Group proportional share of associates net income 20% share m m Revenue 24.0 24.6 Earnings before interest and income taxes EBIT 0.6 0.3 Share of associate net profit for the year 0.5 0.2 Other net expense income for the year 0.1 0.1 Comprehensive income for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement 0.4 0.3 2018 2017 Group proportional share of associates net assets 20% share m m Current assets 14.0 13.0 Non-current assets 16.6 17.2 Total assets 30.6 30.2 Current liabilities 3.3 3.1 Non-current liabilities 0.9 0.9 Total liabilities 4.2 4.0 Shareholders funds before fair value adjustment on acquisition 26.4 26.2 The summarised financial information is based on the audited financial statements of SeAH FS for 2017 and the unaudited financial statements of SeAH FS for 2018.
The functional currency of SeAH FS is Korean won, which has been converted to Euro at prevailing exchange rates.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 108 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17.
Inventories 2018 2017 m m Raw materials 145.8 136.6 Work-in-progress 40.1 37.2 Finished goods 39.8 39.3 Tooling under development 96.6 85.3 Consumables 30.5 30.9 Total inventories 352.8 329.3 Consignment inventories from external suppliers held on the Groups premises at 31 December 2018 amounted to 19.8 million 2017: 20.4 million and are excluded from the balances above.
The value of inventories has been assessed on the basis of fair value, in determining that the carrying value is the lower of cost less any related selling costs and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales during the year was 1,637.0 million 2017: 1,644.8 million, including 8.0 million relating to write-downs of inventory to net realisable value 2017: 6.2 million.
Trade and Other Receivables 2018 2017 m m Trade receivables 521.3 530.8 Allowance for doubtful debts 4.0 2.7 Net trade receivables 517.3 528.1 Prepayments 60.8 57.7 Contract assets accrued income 13.2 12.4 Other receivables 1.8 3.5 Total trade and other receivables 593.1 601.7 Non-current 14.8 13.4 Current 578.3 588.3 Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts that are overdue at the end of the year for which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful debts because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
Aged Analysis of Net Trade Receivables 2018 2017 m m Not overdue 476.5 499.5 Up to three months overdue 37.5 26.4 Three to six months overdue 2.2 1.5 Over six months overdue 1.1 0.7 Net trade receivables 517.3 528.1 18.2.
Movement in Allowance for Doubtful Debts 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 2.7 2.1 Receivables provided for as uncollectable 1.5 1.1 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 0.5 Amounts recovered during the year 0.2 At 31 December 4.0 2.7 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers all currently available and forward-looking information to assess the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period.
Receivables provided for as uncollectible and charged to the Income Statement are included in administrative expenses.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 18.
Trade and Other Receivables continued 18.3. Credit Quality of Receivables The Group has a large number of customers and considers credit ratings only in respect of major customers from either Standard and Poors or Moodys.
Those customers that have no credit rating are monitored as part of normal credit control procedures.
2018 2017 Credit rating m m A AAA 148.4 133.3 B BBB 232.1 234.6 Counterparties without external credit rating 136.8 160.2 Net trade receivables 517.3 528.1 18.4.
Currency Risk of Receivables 2018 2017 m m Chinese renminbi 173.5 177.8 Euro 169.1 174.6 US dollar 104.5 105.5 Other currencies 72.0 73.7 Total net trade receivables and other receivables 519.1 531.6 18.5.
Movement in Accrued Income 2018 m At 1 January 2018 12.4 Unbilled performance 2.3 Transfers to receivables 2.0 Other movements 0.3 Currency translation 0.2 As at 31 December 2018 13.2 19.
Cash and Liquid Assets 2018 2017 m m Cash at bank and in hand 360.1 287.2 Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet 360.1 287.2 Other deposits 1.2 2.9 Financial assets at FVTPL 1.2 2.9 Total cash and liquid assets 361.3 290.1 Other deposits of 1.2 million include 0.7 million pledged to provide a bank guarantee, as part of a total guarantee of 1.5 million to the Spanish tax authorities in respect of a disputed assessment raised following a tax audit for the period 2013-14.
At 31 December 2017, other deposits of 2.9 million included 2.8 million pledged to provide a bank guarantee, as part of a total guarantee of 5.4 million to the Spanish tax authorities in respect of disputed assessments raised following tax audits for the period 2006-11.
This collateral was released in 2018 following successful resolution of the dispute.
2018 2017 Financial institution credit rating m m A AA 319.3 257.3 B BBB or lower 40.8 29.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet 360.1 287.2 Cash and cash equivalent balances include 2.0 million 2017: 1.7 million held by subsidiaries as collateral primarily for letters of credit and foreign exchange facilities.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 110 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20.
Issued Share Capital Nominal Ordinary Ordinary Share Number of value of shares shares premium Total shares each share m m m m At 1 January 2018 519,412,226 0.01 5.2 6.8 404.3 411.1 Capital reduction 0.01 404.3 404.3 Shares issued 489,277 0.01 1.4 1.4 At 31 December 2018 519,901,503 0.01 5.2 6.8 1.4 8.2 Nominal Ordinary Ordinary Share Number of value of shares shares premium Total shares each share m m m m At 1 January 2017 350,056,644 1.00 350.1 493.7 493.7 Capital reduction 0.99 346.6 488.7 488.7 Share capital raised on initial public offering 148,333,333 0.01 1.5 1.6 423.0 424.6 Shares issued as consideration for the cancellation of certain historic share option plans 20,657,233 0.01 0.2 0.2 0.2 Shares issued to certain Non-Executive Directors 365,016 0.01 1.0 1.0 Share capital issuance costs 19.7 19.7 At 31 December 2017 519,412,226 0.01 5.2 6.8 404.3 411.1 On 9 October 2017, the Board approved a special resolution to reduce the nominal value of the Companys shares from 1.00 to 0.01 per share.
This reduced the ordinary share capital by 488.7 million.
This resolution was supported by a statement of the solvency of the Company pursuant to section 641 1 a of the Companies Act.
On 25 October 2017, the Companys entire ordinary share capital was listed on to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the FCA and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities under the ticker TIFS.
As part of the listing, the Company issued 148,333,333 ordinary shares of new share capital at an Offer Price of 255 pence per ordinary share, which raised 424.6 million 378.3 million before issuance costs.
On Admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Company also issued 20,657,233 ordinary shares as consideration for the cancellation of certain outstanding option awards granted to certain members of the Groups management team under historic share plans.
The Company also issued a further 365,016 ordinary shares to certain Non-Executive Directors.
On 16 January 2018, the Company undertook a court-approved capital reduction, which had the effect of cancelling the share premium account of 404.3 million and increasing the balance on accumulated profits by the same amount.
On 1 December 2018, the Company issued 489,277 ordinary shares in relation to the vesting of RSU awards.
See Note 7 Sharebased Compensation for furtherinformation.
The Company is a public limited company which is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, with registered number09402231.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 21.
Reserves Other Reserves Forward Forward contracts contracts Currency cash flow cost of Net Interest Hedging translation Items that may be subsequently reclassified to hedge hedging investment rate reserve reserve Total profit or loss reserve reserve hedges swaps m m m At 1 January 2018 25.4 10.0 7.6 27.8 102.7 130.5 Amount recognised in OCI during the year fair value gains: effective hedges 27.3 8.8 2.7 38.8 38.8 Amounts recycled from OCI foreign exchange remeasurement 27.3 27.3 27.3 Amortisation 9.3 9.3 9.3 Amounts recycled from OCI interest 2.5 2.5 2.5 Movement in fair value of effective cash flowhedges 0.5 0.2 0.3 0.3 Net investment hedge 7.2 7.2 7.2 Currency translation attributable to owners of the Parent Company 11.7 11.7 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 0.5 7.2 0.2 7.5 11.7 4.2 At 31 December 2018 25.9 17.2 7.8 35.3 91.0 126.3 Currency Hedging translation reserve reserve Total Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss m m m At 1 January 2017 36.7 27.8 64.5 Amount recognised in OCI during the year fair value losses: effective hedges 64.9 64.9 Amounts recycled from OCI foreign exchange remeasurement 76.3 76.3 Amounts recycled from OCI interest 0.7 0.7 Movement in fair value of effective cash flow hedges 12.1 12.1 Net investment hedge 3.2 3.2 Currency translation attributable to owners of the Parent Company 74.9 74.9 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 8.9 74.9 66.0 At 31 December 2017 27.8 102.7 130.5 22.
Non-Controlling Interests 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 20.3 19.0 Share of profit for the year 2.3 2.7 Currency translation 0.1 0.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 2.4 2.4 Dividends paid 0.2 1.1 At 31 December 22.5 20.3 The Group holds a 97% interest in Bundy India Ltd and a 73% interest in Hanil Tube Corporation, which is located in South Korea.
Non-controlling interests represent the remaining 3% and 27% respectively.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23.
Trade and Other Payables 2018 2017 m m Trade payables 289.2 284.1 Accrued expenses 173.0 194.4 Contract liabilities deferred income 93.3 87.5 Social security and other taxes 48.0 52.6 Other payables 20.1 33.6 Amounts due to associates 1.9 3.0 Total trade and other payables 625.5 655.2 Non-current 17.1 17.6 Current 608.4 637.6 Accrued expenses include net capital investment grant balances totalling 2.9 million 2017: 2.1 million.
Movement in Deferred Income 2018 m At 1 January 2018 87.5 Advance billings 63.4 Amounts recognised as revenue 47.5 Reversal of prior year deferred income 8.2 Other movements 2.2 Currency translation 0.3 As at 31 December 2018 93.3 24.
Borrowings 2018 2017 Notes m m Non-current: Secured loans: Main borrowing facilities 24.4 1,179.1 996.3 Other loans 24.5 0.2 0.2 Unsecured notes 24.4 179.7 Finance leases 24.6 2.0 Total non-current borrowings 1,179.3 1,178.2 Current: Secured loans: Main borrowing facilities 24.4 2.3 1.5 Other loans 24.5 0.1 0.1 Finance leases 24.6 2.0 1.4 Total current borrowings 4.4 3.0 Total borrowings 1,183.7 1,181.2 Main borrowing facilities and unsecured notes 24.4 1,181.4 1,177.5 Finance leases and other loans 2.3 3.7 Total borrowings 1,183.7 1,181.2 The main borrowing facilities and unsecured notes are shown net of issuance discounts and fees of 23.8 million 2017:31.3million.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24.
Movement in Total Borrowings Main borrowing facilities and Finance leases Unsecured unsecured and other Total Term loan notes notes loans borrowings m m m m m At 1 January 2018 997.8 179.7 1,177.5 3.7 1,181.2 Accrued interest 45.2 8.9 54.1 0.5 54.6 Scheduled payments 49.2 8.9 58.1 1.9 60.0 Fees expensed 6.5 0.4 6.9 6.9 New borrowings 150.0 150.0 150.0 Fees paid on proceeds from new borrowings 2.2 2.2 2.2 Voluntary repayments of borrowings 188.4 188.4 188.4 Fees expensed on voluntary repayments of borrowings 3.6 3.6 3.6 Currency translation 33.3 4.7 38.0 38.0 At 31 December 2018 1,181.4 1,181.4 2.3 1,183.7 Main borrowing facilities and Unsecured unsecured Finance leases Total Term loan notes notes and other loans borrowings m m m m m At 1 January 2017 1,277.8 416.3 1,694.1 4.6 1,698.7 Accrued interest 49.4 31.9 81.3 0.8 82.1 Scheduled payments 59.6 31.9 91.5 1.7 93.2 Fees expensed 7.5 1.4 8.9 8.9 Fees on repricing of loans 1.6 1.6 1.6 Voluntary repayments of borrowings 166.5 197.1 363.6 363.6 Fees expensed on voluntary repayments of borrowings 4.2 4.5 8.7 8.7 Currency translation 113.4 45.4 158.8 158.8 At 31 December 2017 997.8 179.7 1,177.5 3.7 1,181.2 24.2.
Maturity of Borrowings 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 4.4 3.0 Between one and five years 1,179.3 998.5 After five years 179.7 Total borrowings 1,183.7 1,181.2 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24.4.
Main Borrowing Facilities and Unsecured Notes The main borrowing facilities comprise a package of secured loans consisting of a term loan, an asset-backed loan, and a revolving credit facility.
The amounts outstanding under the agreements are: 2018 2017 m m Principal outstanding: US term loan 776.4 707.5 Euro term loan 428.8 317.7 Main borrowing facilities term loan 1,205.2 1,025.2 Unsecured senior notes 183.6 Total principal outstanding 1,205.2 1,208.8 Issuance discounts and fees 23.8 31.3 Main borrowing facilities and unsecured notes 1,181.4 1,177.5 Term loan On 16 July 2018, the Group successfully executed a repayment and modification of its external borrowings.
The balance of 8.75% unsecured senior notes of $220.5 million 188.4 million was repaid using a combination of 115.0 million of additional borrowing under the Euro term loan, $41.0 million 35.0 million of additional borrowing under the US term loan and 38.4 of million existing cash.
Interest rates and maturity dates of the Euro and US term loans remained unchanged.
The principal outstanding of the US term loan in US dollars at 31 December 2018 is $890.7 million 2017: $849.7 million.
The interest payable on the US dollar term loan was US$ LIBOR minimum 0.75% p. a.
2.75% p. a. and the interest payable on the Euro term loan was EURIBOR minimum 0.75% p. a.
On 23 January 2018, the Group met certain borrowings criteria which enabled it to reduce the interest rate payable on the US term loan by 0.25% p. a. to US$ LIBOR minimum 0.75% p. a.
2.5% p. a. and the Euro term loan by 0.25% p. a. to EURIBOR minimum 0.75% p. a.
2.75% p. a. both effective from 30December 2017.
The US dollar tranche was repayable in amounts of $2.7 million per quarter until 31 October 2017.
On 31 October 2017, the Group made a voluntary repayment of this loan of $194.0 million as a result of which no further capital payments are due on the US dollar tranche until the balance falls due on 30 June 2022.
The Euro tranche was repayable in amounts of 0.8 million per quarter in the prior year and first six months of 2018.
Following the modification of the Groups borrowings on 16 July 2018, the Euro tranche was increased and is now repayable in amounts of 1.1 million per quarter, with the balance also falling due on 30 June 2022.
On 6 October 2015, the Group entered into hedging transactions with a number of financial institutions which effectively converted borrowings of $400.0 million at floating interest rates into 355.0 million at a fixed interest rate of 4.2%, thereby reducing foreign currency exposure for future cash flows and locking in lower long-term Euro fixed interest rates Note 3.3.
Asset-backed loan, and a revolving credit facility The asset-backed loan ABL provides up to $100.0 million depending upon the level of inventories and trade receivables in the Groups US and Canadian businesses.
The facility is also available to be used to issue letters of credit on behalf of TI Group Automotive Systems LLC, a subsidiary undertaking.
Drawings under the facility bear interest at US$ LIBOR 1.50% p. a. unless the drawings are below $50.0 million when the rate is US$ LIBOR 1.25% p. a.
The revolving credit agreement provides a facility of up to $125.0 million.
Drawings under this facility bear interest in a range of US$ LIBOR 3.0% to US$ LIBOR 3.5% p. a. depending on the Groups leverage ratios.
Maturities of the revolving credit facility and asset-backed loan were extended by three years as part of the repayment and modification of the Groups external borrowings in the year.
Both facilities are now due to expire on 23 July 2023.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 24.
Borrowings continued The net undrawn facilities under the agreements are shown below: 2018 2017 $m m $m m Asset backed loan: Availability 89.7 78.2 86.5 72.0 Utilisation for letters of credit 3.0 2.6 3.1 2.6 Net undrawn asset backed loan facility 86.7 75.6 83.4 69.4 Revolving credit agreement 125.0 109.0 125.0 104.1 Main borrowings: net undrawn facilities 211.7 184.6 208.4 173.5 Unsecured senior notes The initial principal amount of the unsecured senior notes was $450.0 million.
On 31 October 2017, the Group redeemed $229.5 million 197.1 million of the notes and paid an early redemption premium, to the noteholders of $20.6 million 17.7 million.
The aggregate principal amount of the unsecured senior notes remaining at 31 December 2017 was $220.5 million.
On 16 July 2018, the Group successfully executed a further repayment and modification of its external borrowing as described above, resulting in repayment of the remaining outstanding balance on the unsecured senior notes of $220.5 million 188.4 million, leaving nothing outstanding at 31 December 2018.
The Group paid an early redemption premium of $9.6 million 8.2 million to the noteholders for this exercise.
The early redemption premiums are recognised as exceptional finance expense Note 11.
The notes carried an 8.75% coupon payable bi-annually on a 360-day year basis.
Issuance discounts and fees Initial issuance discounts and fees of 63.3 million arising from the 2015 agreements were capitalised in 2015.
Following the repricingof the term loans on 27 January 2017, new fees capitalised in 2017 were 1.6 million, bringing the total fees capitalised under the 2015 agreements to 64.9 million at 31 December, 2017.
Following the Groups repayment and modification of its external borrowings on 16 July 2018 as described above, a further 2.2 million of directly attributable incremental fees were capitalised bringing the total fees capitalised to 67.1 million.
All capitalised fees are expensed using the effective interest rate method over the remaining terms of the facilities.
As a result of the Group extinguishing its remaining unsecured senior notes in July 2018, unamortised transaction costs of $4.2million 3.6 million were released and recognised as exceptional finance expenses in the year.
In 2017, an acceleration of unamortised issuance fees of 8.7 million was recognised in exceptional finance expenses as a result of the voluntary repayments ofthe US term loan and unsecured notes in October 2017.
Other Secured Loans Subsidiaries in Italy and Spain have granted security over certain of their assets in return for credit facilities from their banks.
The loans have total amortisation repayments of 0.1 million per annum payable quarterly 2017: 0.2 million.
The loan in Italy was fully repaid during the year.
Finance Leases The maturity of finance lease liabilities is: Total minimum lease payments Interest Principal m m m Less than one year 2.1 0.1 2.0 Total at 31 December 2018 2.1 0.1 2.0 Total minimum lease payments Interest Principal m m m Less than one year 1.6 0.2 1.4 Between one and two years 2.1 0.1 2.0 Total at 31 December 2017 3.7 0.3 3.4 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 116 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24.7.
Total Undrawn Borrowing Facilities 2018 2017 m m Floating rate: Expiring within one year 6.0 5.8 Expiring after more than one year 184.6 173.5 190.6 179.3 Fixed rate: Expiring within one year 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 Total at the end of the year 194.5 183.2 24.8.
Movements in Net Borrowings Non-cash changes At At 1 January Fees Currency 31 December 2018 Cash flows expensed translation 2018 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 287.2 70.6 2.3 360.1 Financial assets at FVTPL 2.9 1.7 1.2 Borrowings 1,181.2 46.0 10.5 38.0 1,183.7 Total net borrowings 891.1 114.9 10.5 35.7 822.4 Non-cash changes At At 1 January Fees Currency 31 December 2017 Cash flows expensed translation 2017 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 196.2 106.3 15.3 287.2 Financial assets at FVTPL 2.9 2.9 Borrowings 1,698.7 376.3 17.6 158.8 1,181.2 Total net borrowings 1,499.6 482.6 17.6 143.5 891.1 Borrowings cash flows are analysed below: 2018 2017 m m Voluntary repayments of borrowings 188.4 363.6 Scheduled repayments of borrowings 5.4 11.1 Fees paid on repricing of loans 1.6 Fees paid on proceeds from new borrowings 2.2 Proceeds from borrowings 150.0 Borrowings cash flows 46.0 376.3 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 25.
Fair Values of Financial Assets and Liabilities 25.1.
Financial Instruments by Category As of 31 December 2018: Assets at Assets in amortised hedged Assets at cost relationships FVTPL Total Financial assets m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 360.1 360.1 Financial assets at FVTPL 1.2 1.2 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 532.3 532.3 Derivative financial instruments: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 5.2 1.0 6.2 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 7.7 7.7 Total at 31 December 2018 892.4 12.9 2.2 907.5 Liabilities at Liabilities in amortised hedged Liabilities at cost relationships FVTPL Total Financial liabilities m m m m Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 532.2 532.2 Borrowings 1,183.7 1,183.7 Derivative financial instruments: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 26.0 2.3 28.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 17.2 17.2 Interest rate floor 2.6 2.6 Total at 31 December 2018 1,715.9 43.2 4.9 1,764.0 As of 31 December 2017: Assets at amortised cost Loans and Assets in receivables hedged Assets at under IAS 39 relationships FVTPL Total Financial assets m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 287.2 287.2 Financial assets at FVTPL 2.9 2.9 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 544.0 544.0 Derivative financial instruments: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 5.2 1.4 6.6 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 7.0 7.0 Total at 31 December 2017 831.2 12.2 4.3 847.7 Liabilities in Liabilities at hedged Liabilities at amortised cost relationships FVTPL Total Financial liabilities m m m m Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 567.7 567.7 Borrowings 1,181.2 1,181.2 Derivative financial instruments: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 59.2 2.7 61.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts net investment hedges 10.0 10.0 Interest rate floor 3.9 3.9 Total at 31 December 2017 1,748.9 69.2 6.6 1,824.7 Fair value estimates of derivatives are based on relevant market information and information about the financial instruments, which are subjective in nature.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 118 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Fair values of financial instruments have been determined by reference to a hierarchy defined as follows: Level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
All derivative items reported are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy specified in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: their measurement includes inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair values of non-derivative amounts are determined in accordance with generally accepted valuation techniques based on discounted cash flow analysis.
For the non-derivative items reported above, it is assumed that by their nature their carrying value approximates their fair value, with the exception of unsecured notes included within borrowings in the prior year.
The balance of unsecured senior notes was repaid in the current year.
At 31 December 2017, the borrowings figures above includes unsecured notes carried at a book value of 183.6 million before deduction of issuance discounts and fees, and 196.0 million excluding deduction of issuance discounts and fees.
These fair values are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy specified in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
There have been no changes in the measurement of financial assets on transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Contracted Maturities of Financial Liabilities Less than Between one Between two one year and two years and five years Total As of 31 December 2018: m m m m Non-derivatives Borrowings excluding issuance discounts and fees 6.5 4.5 1,196.5 1,207.5 Interest 54.6 54.5 81.1 190.2 Total borrowings 61.1 59.0 1,277.6 1,397.7 Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 524.2 8.0 532.2 Total non-derivatives at 31 December 2018 585.3 67.0 1,277.6 1,929.9 Derivatives Cash flow hedging instrument: Outflow 1.0 560.3 561.3 Inflow 516.6 516.6 Interest rate swaps 1.5 1.3 2.8 Total derivatives at 31 December 2018 2.5 45.0 47.5 Less than Between one Between two one year and two years and five years Over five years Total As of 31 December 2017: m m m m m Non-derivatives Borrowings excluding issuance discounts and fees 4.8 5.3 1,018.8 183.6 1,212.5 Interest 56.4 56.3 148.3 16.1 277.1 Total borrowings 61.2 61.6 1,167.1 199.7 1,489.6 Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 588.4 17.1 605.5 Total non-derivatives at 31 December 2017 649.6 78.7 1,167.1 199.7 2,095.1 Derivatives Cash flow hedging instrument: Outflow 1.3 1.3 378.8 381.4 Inflow 309.8 309.8 Interest rate swaps 1.4 1.3 1.2 3.9 Total derivatives at 31 December 2017 2.7 2.6 70.2 75.5 The cash flow hedging instruments are expected to mature over a period of five years from inception concluding in 2020.
These contracts are designed to partially match the interest and principal repayments of US dollar-based debt reported in Note 3.3.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Defined Benefit Arrangements Pension plans The Group operates funded defined benefit pension plans in the US, Canada and the UK under broadly similar regulatory frameworks.
All of the plans provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of pensions provided is determined by members length of service and, for most of these plans, pensionable remuneration.
Plan assets are held in trusts from which all benefit payments are made.
The plans are governed by local regulations and practice, including the nature of the relationship between their trustees and the Group.
Responsibility for governance of the plans, including investment strategy and schedules of contributions, rests primarily with the trustees, some of whom who are appointed by the Group and the remainder by the members in accordance with the rules of each plan.
There are five plans in the US, four of which are closed to both new entrants and future accrual, and one of which is closed to new entrants but permit future accrual.
The active members are not required to make contributions to the plans.
Pensions in payment are not subject to inflationary increase.
The plan in Canada remains open to new entrants, and is contributory.
Pensions in payment are subject to discretionary inflationary increase.
The UK plan is closed to new entrants but remains open to future accrual.
Pensions in payment are subject to annual increase based on the UK Retail Price Index.
Independent accounting valuations of all major defined benefit scheme assets and liabilities were carried out as at 31 December 2018.
The US pension plans are subject to annual actuarial valuation, and were most recently valued by independent qualified actuaries as at 1 January 2018.
The Canadian plan is subject to actuarial valuation at least triennially, and was most recently formally valued as at 31 December 2017.
The UK plan is subject to triennial actuarial valuation, and was most recently formally valued as at 6April 2018.
Employer funding contributions to the US and other pension plans are agreed at each formal valuation, and for the yearended 31 December 2018 totalled 5.3 million 31 December 2017: 5.1 million.
Contributions for the 12 months ended 31December 2019 are expected to amount to 5.0 million.
In this note the US plans are shown separately as US pensions, and the Canadian and UK plans are aggregated as other pensions.
Post-employment healthcare The Group operates post-employment medical benefit schemes in a small number of territories, principally the US where the scheme was closed to new entrants in 1992.
The US scheme is subject to annual actuarial valuation, and was most recently valued by independent qualified actuaries as at 1 January 2018.
In this note the US scheme is shown separately as US healthcare, and the other healthcare liabilities are aggregated within other post-employment liabilities.
Other post-employment arrangements The Group operates certain other pension and retirement plans primarily in Germany, France, Italy, Korea, Poland and Belgium, where obligations are either partially funded or unfunded.
In this note these plans are aggregated within other post-employment liabilities.
Defined Benefit Arrangements in the Primary Financial Statements The net liability for defined benefit arrangements is as follows: a.
Balance Sheet Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Net liability m m m m m Present value of retirement benefit obligations 231.0 86.2 33.1 83.4 433.7 Fair value of plan assets 174.2 92.8 25.1 292.1 Asset ceiling 6.6 6.6 Net liability at 31 December 2018 56.8 33.1 58.3 148.2 Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Net liability m m m m m Present value of retirement benefit obligations 243.3 93.2 42.4 81.3 460.2 Fair value of plan assets 182.4 98.4 22.8 303.6 Asset ceiling 5.8 5.8 Net liability at 31 December 2017 60.9 0.6 42.4 58.5 162.4 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 120 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The present value of retirement benefit obligations by member type is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Active members 122.8 126.3 Deferred members 110.5 125.5 Retirees 200.4 208.4 Total at 31 December 433.7 460.2 b.
Income Statement Net expense income recognised in the Income Statement is as follows: Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Net expense m m m m m Current service cost 0.2 1.3 5.9 7.4 Past service cost 0.3 0.3 Net interest expense income 2.1 0.2 1.3 1.2 4.4 Net expense year ended 31 December 2018 2.3 1.4 1.3 7.1 12.1 Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Net expense m m m m m Current service cost 0.3 1.4 0.2 5.8 7.7 Curtailment gain 0.5 7.2 7.7 Net interest expense income 2.6 0.1 2.1 1.1 5.7 Net expense income year ended 31 December 2017 2.4 1.3 4.9 6.9 5.7 During 2017, a curtailment gain of 7.7 million was recognised following the closure of operations in one of the Groups US manufacturing facilities.
c. Statement of Comprehensive Income Re-measurements of retirement benefit obligations included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Income expense m m m m m Return on assets excluding amounts recognised in the Income Statement 14.0 5.6 0.1 19.7 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.7 Changes in financial assumptions 19.3 4.9 4.8 0.6 29.6 Experience gains losses 1.4 2.5 4.1 0.7 7.3 Change in asset ceiling 1.0 1.0 Total net income expense year ended 31 December 2018 7.2 1.2 9.0 0.5 16.9 Other postUS Other US employment pensions pensions healthcare liabilities Total Income expense m m m m m Return on assets excluding amounts recognised in the Income Statement 18.2 3.6 21.8 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.5 1.0 0.2 1.7 Changes in financial assumptions 15.3 1.3 0.1 1.8 14.7 Experience gains losses 0.1 0.8 0.4 0.3 Change in asset ceiling 1.8 1.8 Total net income year ended 31 December 2017 3.3 1.5 1.1 1.4 7.3 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Composition of Plan Assets Plan assets are comprised as follows: Other postUS Other employment pensions pensions liabilities Total m m m m Equity securities 78.8 7.5 86.3 Multi-asset funds 43.6 43.6 Debt instruments 94.3 34.6 14.3 143.2 Qualifying insurance policies 6.9 10.7 17.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 0.2 0.1 1.4 Fair value at 31 December 2018 174.2 92.8 25.1 292.1 Other postUS Other employment pensions pensions liabilities Total m m m m Equity securities 115.1 7.8 122.9 Multi-asset funds 36.0 36.0 Debt instruments 66.1 46.9 13.0 126.0 Qualifying insurance policies 7.4 9.8 17.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 0.3 1.5 Fair value at 31 December 2017 182.4 98.4 22.8 303.6 Debt instruments include corporate bonds, government and public sector bonds, and liability driven investments.
Net Defined Benefit Obligations Present Fair value Net value of of plan accounting Asset obligation assets deficit ceiling Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2018 460.2 303.6 156.6 5.8 162.4 Current service cost Note 26.2b 7.4 7.4 7.4 Past service cost Note 26.2b 0.3 0.3 0.3 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 14.1 9.7 4.4 4.4 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 37.6 19.7 17.9 1.0 16.9 Employer contributions 8.8 8.8 8.8 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 Benefits and administration expenses paid 21.0 16.9 4.1 4.1 Currency translation 10.0 6.3 3.7 0.2 3.5 At 31 December 2018 433.7 292.1 141.6 6.6 148.2 Present Fair value Net value of of plan accounting Asset obligation assets deficit ceiling Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2017 498.7 309.8 188.9 4.1 193.0 Current service cost Note 26.2b 7.7 7.7 7.7 Curtailment gain Note 26.2b 7.7 7.7 7.7 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 16.0 10.3 5.7 5.7 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 12.7 21.8 9.1 1.8 7.3 Employer contributions 8.2 8.2 8.2 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 Benefits and administration expenses paid 22.7 17.5 5.2 5.2 Currency translation 44.8 29.3 15.5 0.1 15.6 At 31 December 2017 460.2 303.6 156.6 5.8 162.4 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 122 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information a.
US pensions Present Fair value value of of plan obligation assets Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2018 243.3 182.4 60.9 Current service cost Note 26.2b 0.2 0.2 Past service cost Note 26.2b Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 8.6 6.5 2.1 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 21.2 14.0 7.2 Employer contributions 4.2 4.2 Benefits and administration expenses paid 10.6 12.9 2.3 Currency translation 10.7 8.0 2.7 At 31 December 2018 231.0 174.2 56.8 Present Fair value value of of plan obligation assets Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2017 263.1 191.1 72.0 Current service cost Note 26.2b 0.3 0.3 Curtailment gain Note 26.2b 0.5 0.5 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 9.6 7.0 2.6 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 14.9 18.2 3.3 Employer contributions 3.7 3.7 Benefits and administration expenses paid 10.9 13.2 2.3 Currency translation 33.2 24.4 8.8 At 31 December 2017 243.3 182.4 60.9 b.
Other pensions Present Fair value Net value of of plan accounting Asset obligation assets surplus ceiling Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2018 93.2 98.4 5.2 5.8 0.6 Current service cost Note 26.2b 1.3 1.3 1.3 Past service cost Note 26.2b 0.3 0.3 0.3 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 2.5 2.7 0.2 0.2 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 7.8 5.6 2.2 1.0 1.2 Employer contributions 1.1 1.1 1.1 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 Benefits and administration expenses paid 2.2 2.3 0.1 0.1 Currency translation 1.4 1.8 0.4 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2018 86.2 92.8 6.6 6.6 Present Fair value Net value of of plan accounting Asset obligation assets surplus ceiling Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2017 96.1 98.2 2.1 4.1 2.0 Current service cost Note 26.2b 1.4 1.4 1.4 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 2.8 2.9 0.1 0.1 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 0.3 3.6 3.3 1.8 1.5 Employer contributions 1.4 1.4 1.4 Employee contributions 0.3 0.3 Benefits paid 3.4 3.4 Currency translation 4.3 4.6 0.3 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2017 93.2 98.4 5.2 5.8 0.6 The Canadian and two locations of the UK pension plans have accounting surpluses that are not recognised since future economic benefits are not available to the Group either as a cash refund or as a reduction in contributions.
The Company has agreed a schedule of additional contributions amounting to 0.4 million to eliminate the funding deficit on the other UK pension plan location by 31 July 2020 including 0.2 million payable by the Company in the next 12 months ended 31 December 2019.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued c. US healthcare and other post-employment liabilities Other post-employment liabilities Present Fair value value of of plan US US obligation assets Total healthcare healthcare Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2018 81.3 22.8 58.5 42.4 100.9 Current service cost Note 26.2b 5.9 5.9 5.9 Past service cost Note 26.2b Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 1.7 0.5 1.2 1.3 2.5 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 0.4 0.1 0.5 9.0 8.5 Employer contributions 3.5 3.5 3.5 Benefits paid 5.0 1.7 3.3 3.2 6.5 Currency translation 0.9 0.1 1.0 1.6 0.6 At 31 December 2018 83.4 25.1 58.3 33.1 91.4 In 2018, the US retiree healthcare changed carriers for both medical and prescription coverage and expects reduced healthcare costs as a result of those contracts.
Other post-employment liabilities Present Fair value value of of plan US obligation assets Total healthcare Total Movements in net defined benefit obligations m m m m m At 1 January 2017 80.8 20.5 60.3 58.7 119.0 Current service cost Note 26.2b 5.8 5.8 0.2 6.0 Curtailment gain Note 26.2b 7.2 7.2 Net interest expense income Note 26.2b 1.5 0.4 1.1 2.1 3.2 Re-measurements Note 26.2c 1.4 1.4 1.1 2.5 Employer contributions 3.1 3.1 3.1 Benefits paid 4.8 0.9 3.9 3.6 7.5 Currency translation 0.6 0.3 0.3 6.7 7.0 At 31 December 2017 81.3 22.8 58.5 42.4 100.9 d. Other post-employment liabilities 2018 2017 m m Unfunded German pension plans 24.6 24.8 Statutory retiring indemnities in France, Italy and Korea 17.0 16.8 Long service awards in Germany and Poland 9.4 8.7 Unfunded arrangements under the US and UK pension plans 1.5 1.6 Retirement plans in Belgium 1.3 1.7 Other liabilities 4.5 4.9 Total other post-employment liabilities at 31 December 58.3 58.5 26.5.
Principal Assumptions The principal assumptions in measuring plan liabilities are as follows: US Pensions 2018 2017 Discount rate 4.21% 3.56% Mortality assumptions: life expectancy from age 65 Retiring at the end of the current reporting year: Males 22 22 Females 23 23 Retiring 20 years after the end of the current reporting year: Males 23 23 Females 24 24 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 124 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information For US Pensions, assumptions with regard to life expectancies from retirement at age 65 are based on RP-2014 collarand genderspecific mortality tables, adjusted and generationally projected by a modified MP-2018 improvement scale.
Other pensions 2018 2017 Discount rate 3.00% 2.70% Inflation rate 2.90% 2.90% Salary increases 3.02% 2.96% Benefit increases 2.32% 2.32% Mortality assumptions for other pensions: life expectancy from age 65 Retiring at the end of the current reporting year: Males 22 22 Females 24 24 Retiring 20 years after the end of the current reporting year: Males 23 23 Females 25 25 US healthcare 2018 2017 Discount rate 4.10% 3.50% Healthcare cost trend: Initial rate 6.75% 6.25% Other post-employment liabilities 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.14% 2.10% Inflation rate 1.39% 1.29% Salary increases 2.63% 2.44% Benefit increases 1.95% 1.96% Changes in the principal assumptions would decrease increase the total defined benefit obligation DBO as follows: 2018 2017 Change in Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Decrease increase in DBO assumption m m m m Discount rate 0.5% 26.8 30.9 30.2 34.7 Inflation rate 0.5% 6.6 6.4 8.2 7.6 Salary growth rate 0.5% 2.6 2.4 2.5 2.3 Life expectancy 1 year 12.9 12.9 15.0 15.0 Healthcare cost trend: Initial rate 0.5% 1.3 1.2 3.0 2.7 The sensitivity analysis above illustrates the change in each major assumption whilst holding all others constant.
The methods of calculating the defined benefit obligation for this purpose are the same as used for calculating the end of year position.
Pension Plans Risk Analysis Asset volatility Plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets were to underperform this yield, this would create a deficit.
All the funded plans hold a proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term, but which are also likely to experience greater price volatility and therefore risk in the short term.
As plans mature, the Groups strategy is to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets whose risk profile is a better match for the liabilities.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in bond yields has the effect of increasing plan liabilities, although this is partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk The Groups pension obligations in Canada, the UK and Germany are inflation linked.
Caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plans against above normal inflation.
The US pension obligations are not inflation indexed.
The majority of the plan assets are not directly inflation indexed, meaning that an increase in inflation will tend to increase the deficit.
Life expectancy The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of each retired member and his her spouse, so increases in life expectancy result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 26.
Retirement Benefit Obligations continued The investments of the funded plans are managed within an asset-liability matching framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that align with the obligations of the plans.
One objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in annuities and long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due in the appropriate currency.
The plans actively monitor how the duration and the expected yield of the investments match the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
The processes used to manage the risks have not changed from previous years.
Investments are diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consist of bonds and equities, although the plans also hold investment funds and liability driven investments.
Equities have been shown to offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk.
Provisions Movements in provisions are as follows: Product warranty Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2018 19.8 1.5 6.7 28.0 Provisions made during the year 6.6 5.0 0.8 12.4 Provisions used during the year 6.9 1.8 1.0 9.7 Provisions reversed during the year 1.4 0.3 0.5 2.2 Utilisation of discount 0.1 0.1 Currency translation 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2018 18.4 4.4 6.1 28.9 Product warranty Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 21.0 0.3 8.2 29.5 Provisions made during the year 13.9 6.3 0.9 21.1 Provisions used during the year 11.6 5.1 1.8 18.5 Provisions reversed during the year 2.8 2.8 Utilisation of discount 0.1 0.1 Currency translation 0.7 0.7 1.4 At 31 December 2017 19.8 1.5 6.7 28.0 Total provisions 2018 2017 m m Non-current 4.9 5.5 Current 24.0 22.5 Total provisions 28.9 28.0 Product warranty The majority of product warranty provisions relate to specific customer issues, and are based upon open negotiations and past customer claims experience.
Utilisation of the warranty provision is anticipated during 2019.
Restructuring Restructuring provisions comprise planned headcount reductions and similar costs of balancing production capacity with market requirements.
The provision at 31 December 2018 relates to certain of the Groups facilities in Germany and is expected to be utilised in 2019.
Other provisions Other provisions at 31 December 2018 comprise provisions for disputed claims for indirect taxes totalling 1.4 million 31 December 2017: 2.2 million and asset retirement obligations and other claims totalling 4.8 million 31 December 2017: 4.5 million.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28.
Cash Generated from Operations 2018 2017 Notes m m Profit for the year 140.1 115.2 Income tax expense before exceptional items 77.0 68.2 Exceptional income tax benefit 25.4 Profit before income tax 217.1 158.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 5 197.1 194.9 Losses gains on disposal of PP&E and intangible assets 10 0.6 0.2 Share option cost 7 4.0 11.3 Shares issued to Directors and certain employees 1.0 Net finance expense after exceptional items 11 64.5 115.3 Unremitted share of profit from associates 16 0.3 0.1 Net foreign exchange gains 1.2 24.6 Changes in working capital: Inventories 21.7 51.4 Trade and other receivables 17.4 20.2 Trade and other payables 23.2 45.3 Change in provisions 0.5 0.2 Change in retirement benefit obligations 5.2 13.4 Total 449.6 415.9 29.
Capital Commitments Expenditure on non-current assets authorised and contracted for at the end of the year but not yet incurred is as below: 2018 2017 m m Intangible assets 7.9 5.3 Property, plant and equipment 55.4 40.6 Total 63.3 45.9 29.2.
The Group as lessor Property that is surplus to the Groups requirements may be sub-let to third parties.
The future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December 2018 was 0.2 million 31 December 2017: 0.2 million.
During the year, a total of 0.6 million of rental income was recognised in the Income Statement 2017: 0.8 million.
The Group as lessee The Group rents buildings, machinery and equipment under operating leases.
The future aggregate minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 35.2 39.7 Between one year and five years 82.7 104.1 After five years 40.0 36.6 Total 157.9 180.4 Total operating lease payments recognised as an expense in the year were 46.6 million 2017: 48.6 million.
Onerous lease provisions were not recognised in respect of non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December 2017 or 31December2018.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 29.
Purchase Commitments As part of its normal business practices, the Group enters into contracts with suppliers for purchases of raw materials, components and services to facilitate adequate supply of these materials and services.
These arrangements may contain fixed or minimum quantity purchase requirements.
These purchase commitments are off-balance sheet agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Group.
The table below summarises the contractual purchase commitments as at the end of the year: 2018 2017 m m Less than one year 38.0 35.6 Between one year and five years 5.5 8.2 After five years 0.2 Total 43.7 43.8 Contingencies The Group has contingent liabilities relating to legal and tax proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
Management reviewed known claims and litigation involving the Company and its subsidiaries at the end of the year.
Based on the advice of legal counsel, appropriate provisions have been made to cover the related risks.
While the outcome of any proceedings in progress cannot be predicted, the Company does not believe they will have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
Auditors Remuneration Services provided by the Companys Auditor and its associates During the year, the Group obtained the following services from  LLP, the Companys Auditor: 2018 2017 m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and its associates for the audit of the Parent Company and the Group financial statements 1.6 1.6 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.7 0.8 Tax compliance and advisory services 0.6 All other services 0.1 2.4 Total 2.4 5.4 All other services of 2.4 million in the prior year relate to specific procedures performed as part of the Companys IPO.
Related Party Transactions and Controlling Parties 31.1.
Transactions with Affiliates of the funds managed by Bain Capital The funds managed by Bain Capital represent affiliates of and funds advised by Bain Capital LLC.
During the year, the Group procured products and materials totalling 0.3 million 2017: 0.6 million from companies in which the funds managed by Bain Capital, the Groups ultimate controlling party since 30 June 2015, had investment interests.
These transactions were completed on the basis of normal commercial terms.
Since the IPO in 2017, the Group has not incurred any management charges from Bain 2017: 3.9 million.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.2.
Transactions with Group Companies Balances and transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation, and are not disclosed in this note except for subsidiaries that are not wholly owned.
Transactions with those companies are made on the Groups standard terms oftrade.
The Group holds 73% of the shares in Hanil Tube Corporation Hanil which is located in South Korea.
At 31 December 2018, Hanil had trade and loan receivables net of payables from other Group undertakings amounting to 23.6 million 2017: 20.7 million and made sales within the Group during the year of 7.6 million 2017: 8.7 million.
The Group holds 97% of the shares in Bundy India Ltd. At 31 December 2018, Bundy India Ltd had trade and loan payables net of receivables to other Group undertakings amounting to 7.2 million 2017: 7.6 million and made sales within the Group during the year of 9.8 million 2017: 8.7 million.
Ultimate controlling party The funds managed by Bain Capital have been the Companys ultimate controlling party since its incorporation.
Transactions with Associates 2018 2017 m m Amounts owed to associates 1.9 3.0 Purchases from associates in the year 13.7 19.6 Transactions with related parties other than subsidiaries are attributable solely to the ordinary business activities of the respective company and were conducted on an arms-length basis.
Events After the Balance Sheet Date In March 2019, the Group paid down a further $56.5 million 50.0 million against its US dollar term loan.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129
